-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/gta4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Tons of variety.
 Well-written dialogue.
 Terrific casting.
 Great surprises.
 Same strong gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Random audio problems on some systems.
 Gang AI not too bright.
 Soundtrack could have been a bit better.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  7, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.2, 55 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 16,714 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Rockstar Games
Developer: Rockstar North
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Jun 7, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is a stupendous thrill ride that shouldn't be missed. 

  By now, you probably know how this works. The new Grand Theft Auto game comes out in October, but 
 only on the PlayStation 2. Xbox and PC owners have to wait a half a year or so for their versions 
 of the game, and each always has the potential to be better than the original release. That's saying 
 something, because we're already talking about one of the best games of 2004 and the best game 
 in the Grand Theft Auto series. Once again, the wait is over, and Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas 
 is now available on the PC and Xbox. While both versions have aspects that are better than the 
 outstanding PS2 game, visual weirdness on the Xbox and a handful of technical issues on the PC 
 prevent either version from being the clear-cut best of the bunch.  

          Representing the hood never felt so good.     

  For those of you already familiar with 
 the game, let's quickly discuss the differences between all three versions. The Xbox one has 480p 
 support, but when enabled, the aliasing is out of control. Portions of the environment look so 
 unbelievably jaggy that you'll wonder if your eyesight is failing you. At times it looks like you're 
 playing a 3D game without putting on the glasses. But if you can get past that (it isn't quite 
 as noticeable in standard resolution) , the game generally looks great. Loading times on the Xbox 
 don't seem to be much faster than the PlayStation 2 release, and for some weird reason, a loading 
 message occasionally appears onscreen, even in situations where the load times are supposed to 
 be hidden, like when changing your hairstyle. Control in the Xbox version is sharp, and just like 
 the GTA Double Pack, your vehicle gas and brake controls have been moved to the triggers and made 
 analog. This works well, but the flight controls, which have also been remapped to fit on the Xbox 
 controller, are a little weird.  

  The PC version comes on DVD only and is packaged with a fully bound book that serves as the manual. 
 It's definitely some of the coolest PC game packaging around. This version also has the potential 
 to be the best-looking version of the game by a long shot. Support for higher resolutions makes 
 the textures and characters look sharper and much better than either of the console versions. There's 
 a draw distance slider that, when turned all the way up, almost totally eliminates the draw-in 
 and fogging that's become synonymous with the series. Your Grove Street home looks much more like 
 a run-down South Central neighborhood when you can see more of its surroundings. But all this graphical 
 quality is offset by some serious problems with the sound. Testing on three different machines 
 that exceed the recommended system specs got us three results. On one machine, we didn't experience 
 any audio glitches. On another, the audio simply cut out a lot, leaving you to drive around with 
 only music to keep you company. It's tough to play when you can't hear your mission descriptions. 
 On the third machine, loading up a save game caused a loud grating noise -- which sounded like the 
 bike-riding audio mixed with a helicopter -- to scream out from the middle of the Grove. We had to 
 hop in a car and drive away from the area to make the noises stop. Also, the cutscenes occasionally 
 desynched from the audio, making the lip movement appear to be way off.  

  Control in the PC version is full of options. You can decide to hook up a dual analog gamepad so 
 that you can play it just like the console versions, or you can instead opt for mouse-and-keyboard 
 control. Either method works, though we had several cases where the game would simply stop responding 
 to any mouse input until we alt-tabbed out of the game, moved the mouse, and then jumped back in. 
 This isn't exactly the sort of thing you want to have happen in the middle of a shoot-out. Mouse 
 control also removes the lock-on aspect of the targeting, giving you easy access to manual targeting. 
 The refined control the mouse gives you seems like an unfair advantage at times, because it's very 
 easy to rack up one-shot kills by aiming for the head. If you have a smooth mouse hand, even the 
 roughest firefights are really basic... provided the mouse doesn't die on you.  

          The Xbox and PC versions have some aspects that are better than the PS2 version, but they 
 also have some that are worse.     

  Both versions have custom soundtrack support, though using it robs you of the great DJs that populate 
 the game's radio stations. You'll still hear a lot of the funnier ads on the custom station, though. 

  Overall, each version of the game has its share of differences and minor issues, but the core game 
 is fantastic, regardless of the platform you play it on. While the list of games that can list 
 GTA as an influence grows longer and longer, there's still nothing quite like the real thing, and 
 the "bigger, better" approach to sequel design definitely works in San Andreas' favor.  

  OK, all that information is fine and good if you've already played San Andreas. But if you're new 
 to the loc'ed-out streets of San Andreas, there's much more you need to know.     

  This latest installment takes place in 1992 in the West Coast-themed state of San Andreas. San 
 Andreas is an island containing three cities. You'll begin the game in the city of Los Santos, 
 which is based roughly on Los Angeles and consists of a mixture of ritzy downtown areas and the 
 gangland ghettos of South Central. San Fierro is based on San Francisco, reproducing the real city's 
 hilly terrain and ever-present fog. The game's third city is Las Venturas, which is a great take 
 on early '90s Las Vegas, complete with a strip full of casinos and the surrounding desert. While 
 one-to-one measurements against previous games in the series are difficult in practice, San Andreas 
 definitely feels like a much, much larger place than Vice City ever did. But at the same time, 
 the growth is handled intelligently. There are plenty of things to do both in and out of the cities, 
 which makes all this real estate matter.  

           Carl Johnson is going (going) back (back) to Cali (Cali) .     

  While Grand Theft 
 Auto III was inspired by movies like  The Godfather  and Vice City took several pages from the 
  Scarface  playbook, San Andreas draws its inspiration from the ghetto and gangsta struggle films 
 of the early '90s. Movies like  Menace II Society  and  Boyz N the Hood  are the clear influences 
 here. In San Andreas, you play the role of Carl "CJ" Johnson. The game opens with Carl returning 
 to Los Santos after spending the last five years in GTA III's Liberty City. But his homecoming 
 isn't a happy one: He's returning home because his mother has been killed. Carl isn't on the ground 
 for more than an hour before he's picked up by a pair of crooked cops and thrown right back into 
 the middle of the street life he left Los Santos to avoid.  

  Your first order of business in Los Santos is to put your set back on the map. Your gang, the Grove 
 Street Families, has fallen into disarray over the last five years, and its influence is minimal 
 at best. So you, along with the three other leaders of the gang -- the long-winded Big Smoke, the 
 dust-smoking Ryder, and your stubborn brother, Sweet -- set out to take back the streets from your 
 rivals, the Ballas, who have turned to dealing crack to earn money and gain influence in the hood. 
 You set out on a series of missions to take back your territory by starting with such small things 
 as spray-painting over other gangs' tags (which is one of the many new types of actions that replace 
 previous GTA games' more generic hidden-package collecting) to quickly moving up to drive-bys and 
 other acts of extreme gangsterism. But there's a whole lot more to San Andreas than just set tripping. 

  Just when you think you're getting used to gang warfare, everything goes sour. We're certainly 
 not interested in spoiling the game's many interesting plot twists, so we'll leave out the details. 
 But suffice it to say you'll eventually need to get the heck out of Los Santos. You wind up in 
 the country outside the city, where you'll encounter many more great characters and officially 
 embark on your quest to put right what's gone wrong. Once you get out of Los Santos, you won't 
 really have to worry about gang warfare for a while, and here the game settles down to present 
 a more GTA-like feel.  

  Like the previous entries in the series, San Andreas features a fairly linear story that takes 
 you through the game's areas. You'll start off restricted to Los Santos -- something the story justifies 
 by claiming that an earthquake has taken out the bridges and roads that link Los Santos to the 
 surrounding areas -- but it doesn't take long to unlock the other two areas. The game also throws 
 in some pretty great surprises in the form of characters from earlier GTAs. These characters tie 
 the GTA games together really nicely, so while San Andreas feels pretty different from the other 
 offerings in the series, it still feels like you're playing in the same universe.  

          The San Andreas story is well written and packs in some really great surprises that tie 
 the game to the previous entries in the series.     

  As in the preceding games, most of your progress is accomplished by completing missions for a variety 
 of individuals. These undertakings are oftentimes similar to those you've seen in previous GTAs. 
 You'll drive people around, take out specific individuals (an early mission gives you the straightforward 
 objective of beating up a crack dealer, for example) , perform drive-bys on your enemies, and so 
 on. But as you proceed through the game, the missions get crazier and crazier. Along the way, you'll 
 pull off a daring casino heist, steal some wicked military hardware, "take care" of plenty of Mafia 
 bozos, and much, much more. The missions are a lot more exciting, on average, than they've been 
 in some previous GTAs. Additionally, the game is a lot better at spelling out exactly what needs 
 to be done. It does this with onscreen text that color-codes each specific piece of a mission differently. 
 Yet while the basics of the gameplay -- taking on and completing missions -- are similar to past offerings, 
 there are plenty of details to uncover, and there are plenty of new things to try.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (497 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Twisted14
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2009 3:25 am PT
Review:  I was first introduced to the GTA series by a friend in the 3rd grade, who let me borrow GTA2 for 
 the PS1. It was one of the most awesome games I had ever played. The swearing, bloody violence 
 and the ability to pass wind instantly pulled me into the crazy world of Grand Theft Auto. It's 
 focus on gang-related crime seemed to warrant another game in the series, this time in 3D for the 
 next generation of video game consoles. GTA3 started the sandbox style gameplay, Rockstar improved 
 on this with GTA: Vice City, and in 2005 came out with San Andreas. Vice City was my favourite 
 of the series, and I felt that San Andreas didn't really improve a lot, except for more features. 
 While the game is fantastic it doesn't quite reach the level of the previous game.
  
  Let's start with the story, seeing as the series is quite heavy on plot, mostly about betrayal 
 and trust. You play as Carl Johnson, a man who's been away from his family and gang. When he returns 
 home, he is framed for homicide and finds out his mother was murdered, his family and gang are 
 falling apart. Now he has to find out what happened to his mother, and pull back his family. I 
 found this story to be fairly interesting, with a good twist, however the story and twists from 
 Vice City, I felt were much better. 
  
  Characters
  I'm going to start with the main character, CJ. I have a few problems with CJ. He seems to be very 
 negative at times, but at others very arrogant, not exactly a good mix. His brother Sweet is pretty 
 cool, and so are the rest of the characters, especially Officer Tenpenny, possibly one of the best 
 video game villains ever. Even though he is incredibly evil he is still very likeable, funny and 
 also quite threatening at the same time. It was also good to see some of the characters from the 
 old games here, examples are, Ken Rosenberg from Vice City and Catalina and Claude from GTA3.
 
  
  Visuals
  This is where things start to get a little bit tricky. The map for the game is massive, although 
 some parts like empty grassland or desert seem a bit wasted and unnecessary. The graphics are still 
 pretty much the same as the other GTA games, but look a little worse, the characters look a little 
 blockier and I'm not a fan of the heat effects and kind of dull colour. Although with this update 
 of the series they added heaps of different models of people and vehicles so there is lots more 
 variety rather than the same 20 or so civilian models in previous games.
  
  Game play
  The game play basically follows the same formula as the other two games. The missions all vary 
 and are pretty interesting and sometimes really fun. Missions are generally medium in difficulty, 
 however some can be easy and some fairly difficult. So the game overall holds up a good challenge. 
 Now, one of the biggest things about San Andreas are all the extra side missions, features and 
 mini-games. The great thing about GTA is that it was a free world and you didn't have to do missions 
 all the time. You were always given an option of mission, or screw around a bit. The good thing 
 about San Andreas is that while it has a massive world, it gives you heaps of things to do. Don't 
 want to hunt down the people who murdered your family members? Go get a haircut, play basketball, 
 dance, gamble or have some CJ time at the local strip club. Getting new threads, a haircut or even 
 a tattoo, helps to personalize your character and is a nice touch, it's fun when you first dance 
 or play basketball, but it can get old fairly quickly. 
  
  The other main new inclusions to the GTA series is the planes. They are pretty fun to fly and are 
 good for navigating the large San Andreas map quickly. In this GTA game, you can now go on dates 
 with women. A couple of these women are crucial to the plot and the others are optional. You have 
 to take her out on a date regularly though, these are fun and funny at first, but again, get old 
 and annoying. Gang wars are new, gather up a crew and take on a gang for more territory. This helps 
 when getting around so you don't have those pesky gang members shooting at you when you drive through 
 their territory.
  
  Of course, when you're tired of doing these sorts of activities, you can go back to what is basically 
 the main focus of GTA, mindless murder. Mowing people over with your car, getting into fights with 
 people, shooting people or cars, it's still as fun as ever. The only disappointment being the lack 
 of rampages, which were very fun and gave that extra thrill to killing in the other games. All 
 the old side missions, like taxi driving, ambulance and fire truck missions are all still here. 
 Also included, are valet missions, trucking, quarry missions and a few others. Other things include 
 some cool arcade games and billiards which again can get old quickly. There are heaps of things 
 to do and places to go in San Andreas. Many buildings are purchasable to give yourself plenty of 
 hideouts and a reason to get more money.
  
  Sound
  The sound effects in this game are very good. The only real downfall was, in my opinion, the weapon 
 sounds which I thought sounded kind of poor and not of the same quality as other GTA games. The 
 vehicles all sound different and great, explosions are still neat and the voice acting is just 
 fantastic. Each cast member really delivers their lines well and the script is well written and 
 funny. My only problem being the comments CJ makes at times, which are arrogant and annoying. The 
 big drawcard for me with the GTA games is the radio. San Andreas has fabulous radio stations but 
 really, just wasn't as good as Vice City's. My main favourites are the talkback stations which 
 are hilarious, but the other stations are also great with plenty of music tracks.
  
  In my opinion Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas doesn't reach the same level of Vice City but is still 
 a superb game. It has improved with more features and more to do but a lot of these novelty mini 
 games get old too quickly. The game has some minor flaws but will still definitely entertain with 
 its engaging story and formulaic but still fun GTA game play and shouldn't be missed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkidRow18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 5:34 am PT
Review:  So a sequel later and we have GTA: SA, the follow-up to Vice City and GTA 3. Whereas the preceding 
 games took place in the cities of Liberty City and Vice City, San Andreas is actually a state that 
 encompasses the cities of Los Santos, San Fierro and Las Venturas. This time, you play Carl Johnson, 
 who is making a return to Los Santos after spending five years in Liberty City.
  
  Not all goes well in this hometown reunion as CJ ends up getting manhandled by two corrupt police 
 officers, officer tenpenny (yes, voice by Samuel L. Jackson, isn't that cool?) and officer pulaski, 
 who frame CJ for the murder of another police officer. Both police officer deserves to get slap 
 in the face, god... i hate them. Anyway, with the threat of a murder of rap hanging over his head 
 and the Grove Street families hitting hard times thanks to the Ballas gang, CJ has lot to deal 
 with as he sets out on his adventure in SA. The story in SA unfolds in between missions with entertaining 
 cut-scenes in the usual GTA style, with professional voice acting and great dialogue.
  
  The three cities are loosely modeled after the real-life Californian cities of LA, San Francisco 
 and Las Vegas and connected via a network of highways, railroads and air transport. This where 
 the major improvement in GTA series is first apparent to those playing; the landscape in SA is 
 huge, take the whole of Liberty City (gta 3, not gta iv) and multiply by 3 and you'll probably 
 still end you with a play area that's smaller than SA.
  
  The familiar sandbox gameplay of GTA series is preserved in SA and for good reason. Why fix it 
 if it ain't broken? SA recreates the feeling of being in a living, breathing city that has been 
 perfected over the last two games. This time you don't have to stay stuck in a city all the time 
 as you can explore the surrounding countryside if you want to. They are small suburban towns, deserts, 
 farms, military bases to wreak havoc in, etc. You can download mods and do alot of silly stuffs 
 in SA.
  
  With such an expanded scope in gameplay, it's easy to forgive Rockstar Games for the minimal graphical 
 improvements and jittery frame rate. Great views can be found throughout the landscape, like the 
 sunset view of the golden gate bridge replica in San Fierro or while soaring over the great mesas 
 outside Las Venturas in a Lear jet.
  
  Design: 9.5
  Sound: 8.0
  Graphics: 7.0
  Gameplay: 9.0
  Overall: 8.6 (Great)
  
  Playing San Andreas easily puts that fear to rest 
 as from the moment you pick up the controller and start your first mission. Go ahead, pick up GTA: SA 
 and say bye bye to the next two weeks of your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 1:03 pm PT
Review:  After the amazing Vice City game, Rockstar games release another very solid Grand Theft Auto game: 
 San Andreas. This new installment of the series is the best yet, as many improvements are visible 
 and everything, from the plot to the gameplay is gaming at its best.
  
  After leaving Liberty City, CJ will find that his old friends have now betrayed him, as his old 
 poor district is more dangerous than ever before. He finds a new gang and irons out some "vendetta" 
 issues, and continues to dominate the whole area of San Andreas. The plot is amazing: it will cut 
 your breath at every turn while not losing its stylish gameplay. Very good additions to all these 
 are the well-written dialogues and scenario, while the casting of the game is big, solid and easy 
 to follow.
  
  Apart from its very good original storyline, GTA San Andreas offers a free-movings, greatly enhanced 
 gameplay. There are now tons of variety from every view and your actions and movements are unlimited. 
 Many new subobjectives are added, making the game more interesting and quite funny. There is a 
 perfect connection between its shooting and driving part which is vital for a free-environment 
 game. What is interesting is the chase by the cops, when you cause havoc into the city. It offers 
 some really good moments, full of andrenaline.
  
  However, there are some few problems around the game, the most important and serious of which is 
 the lack of a serious AI. You will see that sometimes many characters seem to be so stupid and 
 act mechanically. Nevertheless, if the story and gameplay seem attractive to you, you will soon 
 realize that these minor problems don't make the difference.
  
  The graphics of the game are not exceptionaly good, in fact they have some minor bugs and they 
 could be definately better. But you won't encounter freezes or crushes if you have a good graphics 
 card and an appealing processor. The sound of the game is also very good and seems realistic enough. 
 Unfortunately, I cannot say the same for the annoying and helpless soundtrack of San Andreas.
 
  
  The Grand Theft Auto series remains true to its roots with San Andreas: the gameplay is strong 
 and the plot is easy to understand and fun to get familiarized with. What more are you looking 
 for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firefox10210
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2009 5:02 pm PT
Review:  GTA: San Andreas puts you in the shoes of Carl Johnson, a gangster who left his life of crime in 
 San Andreas many moons ago because he was tired of his lifestyle. However, when he finds out his 
 mom was murdered and that his gang, the Grove Street Families, was falling apart, he knew it was 
 time to go back home. As Carl, you will assassinate, deliver, deal, and do whatever else it takes 
 to climb to the top of the criminal world in San Andreas.
  This game spans across three main cities, being Los Santos, Las Venturas, and San Fierro. Each 
 of the cities are huge, packed with missions and unique characters. Whether it's driving school, 
 flight school, or simply getting a sports car from the rich neighborhood, San Andreas' three cities 
 will have whatever you need. Needless to say, the transitions between the two cities are as smooth 
 as they could possibly be, and before you know it, you're out of the hood of Los Santos and into 
 the steep streets of San Fierro.
  Besides the environment of San Andreas, the missions are the core gold of the game. There's always 
 something new to do, whether you're spray painting over Ballas logos or loading someone's car full 
 of drugs. The difficulty of the missions isn't really hard enough that you'll never be able to 
 beat them, but so much that they aren't ridiculously easy. They usually take a couple of tries 
 in the later part of the game.
  San Andreas features lively audio that truly immerses you in every gunshot, song, and car as well. 
 The engines, SMGs, and talk shows all sound very real, and never truly get annoying enough that 
 you'll have to turn your audio all the way down.
  Overall, San Andreas is a game that any PC owner needs to play at least once. The graphics, cities, 
 game play, and audio are simply perfect. The only drawback: the game has an ending.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaunZMilner
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 7:02 am PT
Review:  wow! that's all i can say after playing this game! lots of missions, some are extremely difficult 
 others are normal. Side missions include the usual taxi, paramedic, vigilante and firefighter. 
 New side missions include burglar, courier, train driver and more. Controls are just like other 
 GTA games. You will need to make some adjustments if you are not used to them. the one thing i was 
 happy with was the user track feature. With this you can easily upload your own music into the 
 game. Another first is the ability to swim, eat out, date and work out. You can not only buy safe 
 houses like in previous instalments but you can buy clothes, car upgrades, cars as well as you 
 can also gamble! I loved all the side missions. there is so much to do in this game! I personally 
 think no one would ever get tired from playing this game! This game is a must! definitely worth 
 buying! you will fall in love with it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: connlecuddles
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  You play as cj (carl johnson) on his way to take back grove street and evenge the death his mom. If 
 theres on thing that strikes you the first time you play this game its the soundtrack, from foghat 
 to guns n roses its completly great to think all the money they poured into the rights to all of 
 the songs just to make this game one little bit better. Anyway the gameplay is just awesome it could 
 have been tweaked slightly to perfection but its just right. From los santos (las angelas) to las 
 venturas (las vegas) the map is just ridiculous in size. And the small details on the buildings, people, cars, and 
 objects in general its hard to think they can fit all that into one small disk. Perfection just 
 perfection if you havent bought this already you can get it cheaply now go to your local games 
 retailer and buy it!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chirodip_08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 2:20 am PT
Review:  This game allows you to play as CJ-Carl Johnson, who is coming back to San Andreas after he got 
 the news that his mother is dead. Previously, as the story goes, his brother-Brian got killed in a 
 gang war as well. Now CJ is back to avenge his family.
  It all kicks off in front of Los Santos airport, where, as in every other game, the basics are taught. Also 
 like in every other GTA, you can jack cars, and beat up everyone you see. But now in GTA: SA, you can 
 do a lot more !To get started with, you can visit your nearest burger, pizza or cluckin' bell stores 
 to have your meals which increases your fat and health. You can visit the gym to attain the gangster 
 physique. You can also perform burglary missions at night. Your mates-Big Smoke, Ryder and Sweet (your 
 elder brother) will give you all sorts of missions. You will meet new friends, like Caesar, Mike Torreno 
 and The Truth, to help you in your life, while old friends will become bitter enemies !
  The physics in the game is brilliant. Your car will now have more realistic scratch marks. Though 
 the characters use fowl language every now and then, the dialogues all are well scripted. Also, you 
 will never get bored while free-roaming for you can even go to yor nearest clothes shop to get 
 brand nwe threads any time you want. Speaking of free roam, the whole of San Andreas is huge, comprising 
 of Los Santos, San Fierro and of course Las Venturas. You can swim, drive, fly, ride a boat to any of 
 these towns. Though the sounds not always are convincing, the game is played at such a fast rate, you'll 
 never notice the bad things in it. You can do atrocious work like steal a train of ride a raid against 
 the police with you gang members, but also useful work like learn how to fly, drive like professionals.
 
  At the end of the day, you'll never get bored with this roller-coaster game from rockstar game 
 studios. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thagypsy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  Almost everything in this game is enjoyable. If I had to choose one game to keep this would be 
 the one.
  
  In the game you play as C. J, a twenty year old gang member that just came back to the pressures 
 of San Andrea's after the death of her mom under unknown circumstances. Shortly thereafter you 
 try to regain the confidence of your old friends and you're brother, Sweet. Eventually you will 
 get to explore the three huge islands that are in San Andreas. 
  
  Their are many things to do in San Andreas. You can complete missions, Work Out at the Gym, go 
 to bars, dance at clubs, go to strip clubs, drive, explore, commit crimes, or just cruise down 
 the streets listening to some music. Another thing that adds to the gameplay is the cheats. Using 
 cheats you can create a riot, fly a car, have hookers follow you, make money, bunny hop enormous 
 heights, and make everyone gang members.
  
  If you don't already have it it is only around $20 so I suggest you gewt it as soon as possible. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rezpatriot
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  Don't worry I reviewed this game, played it and didn't complete it so you moan all you like about 
 how I said it won't stand the test of time. I personally think GTA: SA will just be outdone by the 
 competition and its predessasors. Its great coding, elements of roleplaying, a a real violent shoot 
 em up.
  
  Unfortunately I personally still think that there are games that beat this game because the gameplay 
 of this game limits the fun. Its a man basically in charge of a gang, to become kingpin, but with 
 no alternate ending, huge hype and little substance it , and I hate to say it, bland?
  
  Perhaps you think I'm tripping on some kind of substance, but really we have seen it all before, 
 and the fact the story line is based on every other 'black explotation' movie going is quite weak. 
 I prefer Hitman, or a full movie game like Scarface.
  
  But the PC mods out there are enough to challenge my 'gently aimed scope' on gameplay and the graphics 
 are cool and the sound effects are cool too. At least its not stereotypical, actually thats why 
 I hate it. But I love it at the same time. Mixed feeling here ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dogswithguns
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  You get to drive around a huge town. on a car, a bike, or motorcycle. even flying if you want....
 
  GTA Sanandreas worth playing even if you have already played on PS2. It's kind of better on PC 
 If you asked me.... and Multiplayer online is sweet. fun.
  I think the graphics look pretty good for the PC version. not to mention it's only $9.00, cant 
 go wrong.
  Grandtheft Auto 3, Vice City. they both great games as well. but Sanandreas is the best. IMO
 
  GTA SA is gonna keep me busy for a long time. since I just bought it couple of days ago. eventho, 
 I already have it for PS2. and have played GTA4 for PS3. Sanandreas is the best by far. to me anyway.....
 
  Catch you later. try online multiplayer GTA SA if you please.
  If you short on cash and wanting a great game. Sanandreas is a good choice. worth every penny. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 5:42 am PT
Review:  so san andreas has some really good things and also some bad things.. here is my review:
  
  GTA SAN ANDREAS is really fun to play for like a week but thats it.. after a week of playing the 
 game can be really boring.. the map is HUGH and i mean really HUGH its good to have lots of places 
 to go but sometimes it can be also really bad when you need to driver for a long time...
  
  the sounds in the game are horrible audio sounds in car are really bad and visual sounds are also 
 the worst
  
  the graphic is suck and i hate looking at it.. i mean for 2005 i saw way better games with much 
 better graphic like STAR WARS games and lots more...
  
  the missions are ok.. but some of them also really boring and the whole story sucks... 
  
  
 and the worst thing in SAN ANDREAS is the new charter CJ who has nothing to do with the last games.. 
 i think that CLUDE SPEED (GTA 1,2,3) was the best charter in the series
  
  the good things about san andreas is that U can enter stores and by clothes or make a tattos or 
 do a haircut and its really fun.. also theres lots of guns and i loved to play with it for at least 
 a week
  
  i think that the game isnt worth buying.. only rent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebrown07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Ok so this isn't a full blown review on GTA: San Andreas. These are just some points that I believe 
 would make people consider picking up this game.
  1.) Price - You can pick this game up at the super cheap price of about 5.00 at the moment from 
 online stores (tonnes of game for the money) !
  2.) Gameplay - The gameplay and story is great. It starts fairly simple and grows into a massive 
 in depth story with twists galore. Loads of non-stop action and more side missions/bonus games 
 to keep you entertained for ages!!
  3.) Game Mechs - Ok so this game is starting to get a little dated on the graphics but they are 
 good enough to serve the purpose of amazing fun. The controls do take some getting use to (especially 
 if you are use to console controllers) but they are fine after the first few missions. You do rely 
 quite heavily upon auto aim for alot of the shootouts otherwise you better enjoy dieing and starting 
 over again. Due to the graphics the shootouts and car chases can be a little bugged and glitch 
 from time to time, if anything it just gives the game some really funny moments!
  4.) Multi-player - Ok so offically this game does not have a multiplayer, it was not released when 
 the game first came out. Fans of the GTA series decided that they wanted a multiplayer so bad they 
 will make one themselves! TA DA the patch was released on gamespot to allow players to use san 
 andreas online. This is easily one of the most fun multiplayer games I have ever played. I would 
 say apart from the graphics that this game even has a better multiplayer compared to the latest 
 GTA on the consoles! Unlike the restrictive console versions of gta online the PC version allows 
 you to have over 100 players on particular servers with full map access and vehicles! 
  
  Overall this game is awesome. For the money you can't go wrong. Super strong multiplayer!
  
 
  Peace Out, 
  Icey 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaming_Samurai
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  The game get's a lot of praise, but I think that some are a bit too much. Of course, I don't complain 
 much, you have a whole island full of people to rob, kill, date, etc. Then there's Rockstar's problem 
 of not being able to go where you went. Of course I'm talking about the reasturant's, though you 
 would be able to do much, but you could still grab a bite. I'm talking about the reasturant's that 
 you take girls to. Not the "Pizza Stack" or "Burger Shot". And there aren't nearly enough strip 
 clubs. There is one and even that one can be visited in the last part of the game. So much for 
 venues. Now the customizing. 
  Which is pretty amazing. The only problem is that you don't have your style in it. For example: 
 I like shirts, I like to wear then nearly buttoned up, yet in GTA: SA, that's the other way around. 
 So you can't really pour your own style into it, unless you really like the "gangsta" style. My 
 personal favorite are the weapons. An enormous array of weapons is displayed here. You can also 
 find other objects in the game that aren't considered weapons. The story is pretty neat too, although 
 there's a bit of cliche. Transportation is not a matter here, you got planes, boats, jets, trains, 
 etc. Overall, GTA: SA is a game that lives up to it's standards, despite it's minor flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCrapp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  as you know it and played it before, what better than that?. 
  Well a new big world called San Andreas which takes you in from Urban Suburbs, big cities all around, 
 to big forests and deserts either, all in one huge map with no loading times on intersections, 
 making it just awesome and fully varied to play in. 
  
  So like i said it before, is GTA as you played it before with new tricks which are cool great features, 
 like the new character system (who can swim and hang up from walls now) which can get fat, or thin, 
 or normal, or muscled, depending on how you treat it and play with him, as San Andreas comes packed 
 with Gyms , Food Locals, and many other places where gives u essential services that lets you customize 
 your character to ur likings.
  
  Gameplay - The GTA series, is always playing it on a 3rd person perspective, and the control settings 
 are configurable to you likings, so playing it with a keyboard and mouse is as easy as making a 
 sandwich, but if u like more playing with gamepads, u can plug it and play it on the get-go. So 
 the GTA gameplay experience is the best thing that makes the GTA series so fun which lets you steal 
 cars, kill people, recruit hommies, make drive-bys, and drive all kind of vehicles from cars, to 
 tanks and airplanes, which action can be top-notch.
  
  Single Player Experience - The main story behind this game is great and even with more lenght than 
 the older GTA's, which u can spend simply a lot of hours trying to complete all the story missions 
 from beggining to end, which is cool, and even if u are bored doing them, u can simply use lots 
 and lots and lots of cool cheats to create mayhem on the world.
  
  Graphics - Is a game that looked good, but with the time is starting to look edgy, anyway, the 
 grapchics in the game comes packed with neat effects like heat distortion and speed blurring effect, 
 textures looks solid not great, and character models, while a little varied, looks solid but not 
 so great (just give a look on their hands, lol) . So overall is a nice looking game as matter of 
 fact that doesn't bugs u or make crashes while playing it.
  
  Sound - The music soundtracks that are played on the radio stations are simply excellent as any 
 other GTA, which in this GTA, my favorite radio station is Radio "Los Santos". Voice work is cool 
 with good dialogues, and with little sarcastic and dark humor hidden between them, which in simply 
 words is that the game is funny. Other sounds effects like running cars sounds good, but the gun 
 sounds effects sounds plastic to me, but well, is a good hearing game anyway, PLUS, this GTA as 
 any other one, have the Custom Soundtrack folder where you can place any songs u want to listen 
 to in-game, to don't have any shortage of music while playing it.
  
  Quality - Is a great GTA with just, and very very few, tiny silly bugs that makes the game get 
 sloppy for a few secs but thats all, there are no crashes, no hiccups that f**** ur gaming momentum, 
 so the game is cool and fine.
  
  Value - You won't find this game at a cost of Free, of course, but as years passed, this game is 
 so cheap, that u will think ur buying an ice cream, or even a more cheaper thing.
  
  Overall - This game is simply a must-have for any PC gamers with any genre tastes, it comes packed 
 with so many things to play with, that makes u easily spend hours playing it, PLUS, that today 
 exists multiplayer mods that lets u play this GTA online. Check sa-mp or multi theft auto on google 
 to find out all abnout them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackout_06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 2:41 am PT
Review:  Its all you ever wanted to do in virtual life. You get everything-you can eat, drink, workout, 
 whatever it is San Andreas has got it all. 
  
  The game world is HUGE, I mean its so big that you'll go mad trying to explore. The game features 
 many new things that were lacking in Vice City. The game has a huge environment, you can climb 
 fences and walls, the cops are more intelligent than their predecessors, you can eat out in fast 
 food shops or diners, you can play pool and you can even play games on your TV- the list goes on 
 and on. One thing I really liked was that you could see the inside of your one safe house, something 
 that was lacking in Vice City. In your safe house you even have your own closet. You can store 
 clothes there, foot wear etc. You can even tune your ride in the game. The game also introduces 
 the gang war mechanic. Here you can actually fight and control your own territory. The game features 
 everything-you can cut your hair, you can tattoo yourself. the game also introduces a new and better 
 way to fly planes than that of Vice City or GTA III. 
  
  Apart from all the things that are new you get the same strong game play from the other games of 
 the series. The graphics are also decent. Soundtracks are sometimes problematic but they are good. 
 
  
  Overall, San Andreas is an excellent game (representing the hood never felt better) and the experience 
 will stay with you long after you finish the game ( if you ever do) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariadarabi
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  In this game you play as Carl Johnson. A gangster whose last thing he wanted to do was go back 
 to the hood. This game is really realistic in a sense of modern day outdoors. If you go outside 
 you can see there are rural, sub-rural, and country-side. Its relaxing when you're hanging in the 
 country side, beside a field of corn, rolling in the hay with your girlfriend. Makes it feel like 
 real life. Wonderful wonderful wonderful. Or as many other would say, EPIC. You can download a 
 multiplayer mod for pc all you have to do is go on google and type in "sa mp" and click on the 
 first link that said "sa-mp". You can roleplay, or deathmatch aka dm, or even you can stunt and 
 become a famous stuntman on youtube. It is pretty fantastic. I love how you can also custimize 
 your person's looks in the clothes shop. YOU CAN WEAR ANYTHING! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faisal_6600
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2008 5:48 am PT
Review:  Five years ago Carl Johnson escaped from the presures of life in los santos sanandreas a city tearing 
 itself apart with gang trouble drugs and corruption where filmstars and millionaires do thier best 
 to avoid the dealers and gangbangers. this is the best gta on pc it gives you fully control of 
 game main character CJ his diet fitness and more you can buy things and hair cut gta sa has more 
 and many interesting thing that give you a new look and new action game system has change driving 
 is not hard new aiming system and more things make this game the best gta on pc . new adventure 
 and action missions and side missions and many more things i play gta sa and like very much this 
 is the new gta game and the best game of 2005 gta make this game the best game on pc because this 
 is thier last game on pc you can play multiplayer game with 8 and 16 players game control is same 
 to other game no problem in the game and very good things this game is the best game on pc this 
 is the best game of freestyle crime with gang trouble u can control a gang area and u need to war 
 in the gang area this game has many interesting things and many systems i think this is the best 
 game on pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kora_red
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2008 11:26 pm PT
Review:  I choose to split this ranking process into three parts: Gameplay, Missions, and Story.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Since when has GTA disappointed us? If I had to choose one aspect of the gameplay 
 that I found to be the most entertaining is the addition of Gang wars in which you could conquer 
 enemy territory. I was actually a bit dissapointed to learn that this was not transferred over 
 into IV. Perhaps we will see it resurface in later installments.
  
  Missions: 9/10
  This one losses a point at least partially because of the bizarre nature of many of the missions 
 and the fact that they are usually almost completely unrelated to the main story.
  
  Story: 8/10
  This is the closest this game has to a weak point. The story seems to mostly take 
 a back seat to the rest of the gameplay. I also found the ending to be a little too anticlimactic. 
 However, the large cast of characters who are for the most part pretty cartoon-ish and ridiculous 
 are still very entertaining and I'd say that Woozie is probably my favorite character from the 
 GTA series so far.
  
  Overall: 9/10 (You're collection isn't complete without it.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paulitis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 2:43 am PT
Review:  Grand theft Auto: San Andreas is amazingly good game, even now when Grand Theft Auto IV is released. 
 U start of when CJ comes from Liberty City to Lost Santos coz he's mom has died in shooting. CJ 
 with he's brother Sweet are runing a gang called "Groove Street Families". But it isn't easy for 
 CJ, there are many other gangs in Los Satos. the biggest is "Ballas". CJ also has few friends who 
 are in Groove Street Families - Big Smoke, Ryder and Cesar. So u start oif fighting Ballas but 
 everything dosen't go so smooth and u are kidnapped by two corupt police offcers. 
  
  U are dumped in middle of country side in a small town called Angel Pine. Now u gotto move ur way 
 trough San Fierro, Desert and Las venturas completing missions, and then getting back to Los Santos 
 to get ur brother out of jail and defeat Ballas for good. 
  
  Well to the other part of the game. Graphics are pretty good but as always they have some glitches. 
 The game's map is very big compared to previous GTA serie games. Map includes three big cities 
 - Los Santos, San Fierro and Las venturas based on Los Angeles, San Francisco and Las Vegas respectivly. 
 As always Rockstar puts some funny jokes in the game. As all other previous GTA games San Andreas 
 has radio. Music genres are many from hard metal to country, from pop to old scholl hip hop. Plus 
 u can make your own radio by putting your own music in GTA SA user file directory. 
  
  Overral the game is just perfect with alot of side missions and humor this game can make u plkay 
 it even for many months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gimousis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 3:31 am PT
Review:  This game is totally great, because you can do practically everything in it! You can roam with 
 cars, motorbikes, boats, planes, helicopters etc, you can perform missions, you can attack enemy 
 gang territories to take control and so on. There is a wide variety of vehicles you can use: there 
 are more than 30 different cars, 5 different bikes (including 3 bicycles) , trucks, airplanes, helicopters, 
 boats and of course the jet, which is called Hydra, based on the model of the British fighter jet 
 Harrier, which is totally cool in handling and destruction abilities!
  What makes this game different from the previous GTA games, except from the wide map and variety 
 in vehicles, is the fact that you can do whatever you want with your character. You can make him 
 fat (yuck!) or thin, well-build or slime, you can have some nice tattoos done on different spots 
 of his body and so on. You can also select various clothes, which you can buy from the stores in 
 the game, and dress him the way you like!
  I've been playing the game for hours and still I can't get bored with it!!! Even if you dislike 
 some of the cars in the game you can change them with whatever cars you can imagine, by changing 
 the vehicles' files in the gta3. img file, with the proper programs of course.
  My advice is simple: Buy it and you won't regret it!
  THANK YOU!
  (Pardon my English but it's 
 not my basic language!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpph
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  even though this game is three years old, it is still in pc zones buying list. there is a reason. 
 if you have not played this game, you absolutely must must must, despite the rubbish graphics. 
 
  firstly, the game is massive, you can drive for hours all over the map without hitting the same 
 place twice.
  unlike just cause, it is not empty vastness, each place is recognisable and different. there are 
 three cities, each of them unique. los santos is based on los angeles and is all about gang wars 
 and respect. san fierro is based on san francisco and is full of triads, for whom you do missions 
 for. las venturas is based on las vegas and is full of casinos and expensive cars.
  no two parts of the map are the same. there is also an excess of countryside and deserts, not just 
 cities.
  the storyline is also pretty damn good, and i genuinely grew to hate a lot of the characters.
 
  the driving is great, cars all handle differently, and as a major plus, you can mod them.
  the side missions will keep the game going long after the storyline has finished because theres 
 tonnes of them and they are all unique once again.
  most of all, this game is utterly hilarious, you honestly cannot complete this game without laughing, 
 be it the rednecks on the radio or the greed of big smoke, it is SO DAMN FUNNY!
  theres loads and loads of mods available, like adding cars or explicit content.
  to summarise,
 
  pros: storyline, driving, flying, endless modding, superb humour, size
  cons: graphics, gunplay can be a little stale
  this is a true must play
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: na8twalk3r
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 12:48 am PT
Review:  as a game its really big name in game industries that every one loves it with big city and daily 
 progress that could happen for every one now a day . It have strong Dialogue that when u have fill 
 boring with gang hoods the story is almost have changed ; the new city , new persons , new places 
 and new functions , even new auto mobiles but u cant forgot the city that u have been in it as 
 u have a bew function on those cities . the cheats are usefull but it been sweet that u finish 
 the game without using any cheats like being CJ. probably when u feeling be strong in game game 
 play take every thing u have not even your mony and u most take all thig u need with money (not 
 cheats its not good) and it had add to enjoyment of a game. in this GTA IV for PC the graphic was 
 not great but game play and story telling has full fill it to take it in big names for PC games 
 in 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: john468
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 1:39 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto are locul de veci asigurat in inimile jucatorilor si in buzunarul producatorilor... mai 
 inovator si cu o senzatie de real life combinata cu cea din filme San Andreas ma tinut luni intregi 
 in fata pc`ului atat pt storyline ( excelent desigur ) cat si pt faptul libertatii de 90% in joc 
 care nu iti ofera ocazia de a te plictisii. Grafica nu foarte excelenta dar indeajuns de buna cat 
 sa nu bata la ochi, sunetele sunt foarte bn implementate ... caracterele din joc au si el un story 
 exceptional !! In cateva cuvinte San Andreas este unu din cele mai bune action - adventure games 
 care te pune in pielea unui gangster ( in devenire ) . Sorry but my english is broken so i have 
 to write my opinion in romanian :D... well all i have too say i keep it going with the good work 
 Rockstars and more GTA sequels hope to live 100 years so i can see GTA Romania :) ) ) ... and one more 
 thing : Hai Romania Euro 2008 :D... keep it real 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrPetit
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  I think it's safe to say that, after completing this game 6 or 7 times, GTA: SA is a very solid 
 and good game. I've also played Vice City a lot and it's so great to see how Rockstar creates a 
 game that's everything VC was and even more. There is some much to like about this game. Here are 
 a few of my favorites in the game.
  
  The setting is great. The 3 cities have their own atmosphere which is hard to leave unnoticed. 
 Walking through the ghetto's of Los Santos feels like a real dangerous experience. Especially when 
 you walk around the corner, into a rival gang. The other cities the business influenced San Fierro 
 and the mob run gambling city of Las Venturas.
  
  The experience of the game, including the cutscenes, are like watching a movie. The dialogues are 
 varied, emotional and very well written. The people are as individuals interesting because they 
 have different backgrounds and personalities. Samuel L Jackson as officer Tenpenny!
  The game also has certain action sequences you will remember for a long time.
  
  You have the 
 freedom to go and do what you want, where you want. When you've completed the storyline you can 
 still have so much unresponsible fun with driving or flying around or just rampaging about.
  
  But serious, it's not all fun and games. We all know that the games has aged a bit and that 
 it already has a way better succeeder. AI of your rival gang members, cops or pedestrians isn't 
 all that good. They do search for cover, in which they often fail. Keep in mind that your fellow 
 gang members can make even worse decisions when you're under fire.
  
  So, GTA: SA kicks ass. It still has some amazing features that keeps you interested in the game 
 and although it has clearly aged, you'll forget all about that when you're really playing the game. 
 Still not convinced? Don't worry, then Carl Johnson will swing by your house with his homies for 
 some 'convincing'. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maybe137
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2008 3:25 am PT
Review:  gta san andreas is very good and very real like you can use almost everything and i'ts very huge 
 i couldnt believe that it would be so huge and the graphic is awesome and the story line was very 
 good thinking by rockstar game and this is the best gta. well the only thing that was not good 
 was the lags but otherwise it was the best game ever made well in the story mode is that his mother 
 died and he have to get back there but the cops is very tough against him and all the gangs try 
 to kill him and with the help with his brother he tryes to get rid of them and in the game you 
 will get many many missions from different kind of people but the funnest is to fly the airplanes 
 but you will have to get an airplane license. and if you will free your self from the cops you 
 will have to do some missions for them. but his sister is loving a guy from the mexican gang and 
 you and your brother first didnt like the guy but then he helps you in missions and you help him 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoofia_pika
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  Get ready, as the GTA series returns- and in its fullest. This is probably the best game in the 
 GTA series, as of now. The players say it, the critics say it, and so do I. GTA has returned with 
 San Andreas and this game does a brilliant job in representing the spectacular series. 
  
  This game has probably everything to it- gameplay, graphics, sound. Though the story, which does 
 not matter if you're talking about GTA, is a bit weak. 
  
  The gameplay of the game is pretty much the same but still, its highly addictive and fun. And sometimes, 
 because of the free roam, this game can get hilarious. 
  
  The missions of this game are better than most of them in the previous GTA games. The free roam 
 provides much freedom. The cars are much better and so are all the other places. The bastketball 
 courts are huge, the bars are fun, the restraunts are spacious and the houses are grand. San Andreas 
 is probably the grandest and the most huge place the GTA series has seen. 
  
  The graphics of the game are pretty good. For example, you might be standing on the roof of your 
 house while blowing up a helicopter and when the copter crashes into the ground, the explosion 
 can be quiet stunning to see. 
  
  The sound of the game is much better than that of Vice City. When the game starts, the starting 
 music can put a good first impression on you. 
  
  The situations in this game are much better and more fun. They are more action packed, more fun 
 and more tough. And much more better. The police in this game is less volatile. 
  
  So, basically, if you're mature enough to handle the violance and the abusive language, go for 
 this game or you'll be missing something. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pletsky
Rating: 9
Date: May 25, 2008 3:01 am PT
Review:  When I played it for the fist time, it was like: Yeah, it looks great
  When I played it for the second time, it was like: WOW!!!
  And so I bought it.....
  It is a 
 great game in all the aspects, it has the typical Gran Theft Auto plot (the criminal one xD) , the 
 graphics are good, the world is just big enough, and it has again the funny radio. The ammunation 
 guy is rather funny about killing cops and such things. The number of cars you can steal has increased 
 and you can also buy them at the docks (in the game they name it import) . The only thing what could 
 make GTA: San Andreas better would be the feather of climbing on ladders, the only way to get on 
 a roof now is by stair (and that's a loooong waaaaay uuuup!)
  
  It's a great game, it's worth playing and it has a great radio and great missions!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sidd_cool
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  G. T. A San Andreas, a game that i and you can never forget, a superb game that helps you to experience 
 what it feels like to be a gangster. The gamplay is remarkable and has interesting missions. It helps 
 you to get perfect in car driving, bike driving and other vehicles like plane, helicoptor ,bus, truck 
 and many  are a lot of bad words so dont forget to play in low 
 volume. The graphics are realistic and our player cj looks real.
  we can eat pizzas, burgers and chicken. dont eat too much as you may become fat and suffer from a 
 hart attack. We can build a body, run on a thread mill, use a static cycle and take part in a boxing 
 match. Its our own world ,we can kill people, buy properties, travel to far off places, perform stunts, swim, play 
 games like pool, car racing and many other video games. we can make our own hair styles and use tattos. Its 
 a game of real life.
  This is a best game and my favourate game.
  Thank You Rockstar for such a good game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dodo97
Rating: 10
Date: May 22, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Game is brilliant, it have everything, I mean it has mods and multiplayer. Graphic is perfect. This 
 game is much better than Vice City example: in Vice City you can't swim and in San Andreas you can 
 swim, in Vice City you can't to go in restourant and in San Andreas you can. Anyway this game is 
 for 10 just like GTA IV.
  
  Graphic: 9.0
  
  Sound: 10
  
  I saw rank of this game and it's 16 and rank of this game at PC 5, I think that rank of this game 
 needs to be 7 and rank of this game at PC needs to be 5 or 4. And this game is better than example 
 Hitman: Blood Money, Max Payne 2 or Narc. Anyway I am REPETING this game is perfect.
  
  
  Too bad that in game you can't be cop like to be in cop team so cops cannot kill you and you have 
 missions to rescue some peoples and to work in cases. Thats all what did I wanted to say here.
 
  
  
  _______
  Dodo97 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Venomz-
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2008 11:51 pm PT
Review:  In this game you will play as Carl Johnson also known as CJ. After 5 years, Carl johnson got back 
 from San Andreas because his mom is dead. Now Carl Johnson is facing a big trouble. His brother 
 Sweet is mad at him (I will not tell why, i don't want to make this review a spoiler) . In this 
 game you'll experience on having a gang! The fun is, It's has a lot shooting! And you can swim 
 unlike in the other GTA. I don't know why they can't swim. Maybe the water is so dirty lol. Not 
 only swim, He can swim underwater and you can see fishes, Turtles, Jellyfishes and Shark (Myths) 
 unlike in the GTA IV, you can swim but not underwater. You can also cuztomize cars and mods them 
 unlike in the GTA IV, you can't thats why i'm saying GTA : SA owns the GTA IV. Now, You can deside 
 what clothes your going to wear. (Buy them at nearest shops) You can also have a jetpack, ride 
 in a Hydra Jet, drive a tank, ride in the yacht, go to the jungles and hunt leatherface (Leatherface 
 is a mod in pc, so don't try to find him because you'll never find him) . Well i guess thats all 
 for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A1B2C3CAL
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  graphics aren't everything. For it's age GTASA is better than alot of games being released lately.
 
  The graphics are not the highpoint of the game but they are not bad at all for the age. After 
 playing the game for awhile I started to get into the spectacular storyline and gameplay. GTASA 
 had me laughin alot with the funny dialog of the characters and some of the things the AI will 
 say and do. I am hooked on this game and can't wait for GTAIV to come to the PC. I hope it's a 
 hit because after putting off playing this for a longtime, I have found a jewel of a game that 
 I thought would be just a giant hype machine. I feel it's like Oblivion set in aother world. The 
 gameplay is so open and free you really feel the game is alive. I will be playing many more hours 
 and if you haven't tried it.. do yourself a favor and pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuyt19
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  I must admit, i haven't played GTA 1 or 2. And i played this game before i got Vice City, so i 
 didn't really know what the series was about. I thought it was all about stealing cars and then 
 racing with others, so i was surprised when i found that it had more than just cars. The story 
 is quite good and well written. The voice actors were simply brilliant, it's more like an animated 
 movie. Samuel L. Jackson as Officer Tenpenny sounded badass. The characters were very believable 
 and they tend to grow on you, espicially the main character Mr. Cee-ta-tha-Jay (Carl Johnson, if 
 you'd prefer) . While being from a gangsta background, he's really respectable and sincere in what 
 he does. Maybe that's what the devs want you to feel. That being said, the game's graphics, while 
 not being top notch, are quite impressive for a game with such a massive map and with so many things 
 you can do. The three cities in the game are really life-like and are alive with activity. Las 
 Venturas in particular has so many beautifully drawn buildings and exotic cars (which, of course, 
 you can steal if you feel naughty) . And the amount of weapons that you can carry are enough to 
 make Sly Stallone and his Rambull friends feel like complete wannabes (all that without even having 
 a bulge in your T-shirt or trouser pockets, NICE!) . Let's not forget the amount of beating you 
 can give to innocent bystanders for no apparent reason ( just pick up a bat and start feedin' em' 
 pure pain) . Got the fat-fetish? Just walk up to the nearest restaurant and feed like a pig. In 
 no time you'll qualify for Sumo wrestling. This is one game where you can do whatever you damn 
 well please, and get away with it too. But then as much fun as the missions are, they are too long 
 and you have to travel such long distances to complete them. Thus, like any other game it has to 
 become repetitive with all the sub-missions popping up as you slowly progress. The game gave me 
 such a headache towards the second-half of the missions, i had to play with a barf-bag tied around 
 my neck. This is definitely not a game you can finish in one go. If you did, then you'll realize 
 at the end that you're half-dead from the lack of nutrition and sleep. Word of advice - If you've 
 yet to play the game, then you should most definitely do it. Just don't get too cocky and try to 
 finish it in one single try. Instead, take your time to explore the interesting world of San Andreas 
 in between missions. And for god's sake, try to get some sleep while you're at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hulk-want-boom
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Very addicting but worth the time playing! This game rocks and is definitely worth the price! I 
 have to say that this is one of my all time favorite games and I can't wait till the new game come 
 out! If your going to play it and it's your first time playing this you should ask someone with 
 the game already because it can be tricky especially when fighting the waves of gangs and other 
 territories. Also I would not cheat because it really sucks the fun out of it and takes away the 
 challenge! The funnest thing in the game I would say is driving in a police car with the lights 
 going because you don't always get to actually drive in a police car so I say that is really a 
 pleasure! ALSO I like running from the police at five stars because it is so so so hard especially 
 when the swat team come because then you have a serious problem because when they come they come 
 full out, there is no stopping them! This is the best game ever!!! (in my opinion of course) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smudge111
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 24, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  only one thing to say 
  
  amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing amazing 
 
  suprub! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MAFIOSO_13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 21, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  The story in this game begins when Carl Johnson (the main character) comes back to Los Santos after 
 his mom dies. His brother is angry at him, so he must take a journey across several states and save 
 his family. Now for the game play. It`s amazing.... You have a big, very big open-ended map and a lot 
 a places you can go.. CJ can go to bars, gyms, get a workout... go to casinos.. bet million (if you got 
 one) .. go to a betting shop (bet on horses :) ) There`s also a lot a missions and side-missions (101 
 missions) You can hi-jack every car, bike you see... You can kill anybody ho bother`s you, but then 
 you will have trouble with the police. The sound isn`t very good, poor sounds.... except for the music. The 
 graphic is an average.. but of course this game is PS2 conversion... but don`t take me wrong it doesn`t 
 feel like a conversion. So what can i say.... i great game. i completed it at least 5-6 times... and 
 it`s still not boring.. this is a game you must get! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s_awi102
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  After the magic of gta3 and vice city on our computers, all were eagerly waiting for the next gta 
 franchise .And here it is gta san andreas, coupled with great gameplay and a good story san andreas 
 is the best of the series.
  It still retains the same strong gameplay of gta 3 and vice city only a little better. The storyline 
 of territorial capture and revenge is perfectly suited for gta. Revenge in gta means-take out ur 
 gun and blast the enemies. Though the dialogues are a lil' gibberish mostly with nonsense, but 
 who cares! Graphics aint that great but still impressive, though the pc version comes loaded with 
 bugs and glitches (which is a trademark) which makes it a little tiring to the eye (even on the 
 best pc) . There are issues over framerate and resolution but not much of a difference, u enjoy gta 
 right from the beginning to the end. Bored doing missions?? enjoy sideline jobs or just take ur 
 weapons and be the innovator of a riot. San Andreas perfectly describes a gangster torn state in 
 which law&order have ceased to exist (well almost) along with storyline missions and blowing heads 
 u can customize the appearance of ur plyer which is admirable. From clothes to his tattoo almost 
 everything can be changed .Now many buildings are also open to the player (Carl"CJ"Johnson to be 
 precise) . Enter a bar and play snooker, enter a burger restaurant and have some nice beef or enter 
 a club to dance (and if the clubmates are unhappy with ur dancing show them the gun language!) . All 
 in all san andreas is a great game which is a must buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iloveconnie
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 10:39 pm PT
Review:  I got back into this game because I am going crazy waiting for GTA IV and realized again what a 
 great game it is, and how much superior it is to the two other versions, having played both. This 
 is a game of freedom, and for anyone who enjoys GTA games, you know what I mean. You can choose 
 to just go through the main storyline and that's it, but you'll be missing out on plenty of crook-klling, 
 taxi-fare gathering, cop shootout goodness. Being able to take a break from the sometimes tough 
 missions with other activities is great. My personal favorite is blowing a cops' head off and dealing 
 with the madness that follows until they finally waste me. However, there are tons of other things 
 to do, like please your girlfriend, go to the shooting range, and even go to driving school. One 
 could easily spend 50+ hours on this game.
  
  The PC version is the one to get because of the scalability of the graphics and the infinitely 
 superior control (No annoying lock-on, just the skill and fun of full free aim) . San Andreas is 
 aging, and when played on a PS2 or Xbox, it fully shows its age. However, on a PC, at cranked resolution 
 and graphics, it still looks good, and runs much better. Thats not to say the other versions aren't 
 good, theyre still excellent, but if you have the limited amount of money it takes to crank this 
 game, you should definetly get it for PC, and BUY IT LEGITIMATELY.
  
  Action, cop killing, car chases, dramatic storyline, clean graphics (PC) , freestyle gameplay in 
 a massive playground and tons of mini activities... if this sounds good to you, then go buy this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYuuRaKuS
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2008 2:35 am PT
Review:  I found GTASA to be glitchy and it would crash once in a while and some missions just wont load 
 up. I wont take this into heavy consideration for the score, as I am using the NO-CD patch as well 
 as many mods to put real cars in the game. The glitches are most likely due to these problems, 
 running it in Win98 mode also greatly helped (maybe vista is affecting it too) .
  
  The PS2 version looked so ugly when I wanted to play GTASA again, but the PC version looks way 
 way better. High resolutions are available but the game doesnt look "hi def" or anything (as one 
 would expect) . Text in the game look crisp but the textures themselves are better than the PS2 
 version, but its no GTA4. 
  
  The user tracks radio station is a nice thing about all PC version of GTAs. Controls vs the PS2 
 version arent so great. I use a logitech controller that is similar to the PS2, but I could not 
 set the controls the same as the PS2, and there are some problems with some of the controls. Using 
 the keyboard and mouse is just too difficult for this kind of game for me.
  
  Pretty much everything is the same as the PS2 version. Missions are nice, gameplay is good. Lotsa 
 playtime. Things I like.... being able to swim, good storyline, super large map, voices, radio, 
 sandbox style, minigames (dancing, basketball, etc) . Dislikes... map interface, tedious character 
 building (weapons is alright, but body building is kinda annoying) , bad controls, buggy, sometimes 
 too difficult. Grand Theft Auto is still one of the best games around but theres still potential 
 for growth. Bring on GTA4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaspii00
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  This is a great game, I'll start off with the cons. This game's graphics aren't that great, since 
 it is a 3 year old game. But it's still great, at any rate. This game is as well fun for a while 
 only. And the ONLY way the fun can remain is use mods (replacing the TXD and DFF files; you can 
 do it at "thegtaplace. com" or "gtainside. com" (I prefer this one) ) . That's all of the major cons, 
 won't try to hesitate even mentioning the small ones.
  
  The pros are that, as I said, it can be modified, like driving a F1 in this :D. Also, the shooting 
 way is good. As long as you can keep shooting, it might stay fun, like assaulting cops. It's always 
 amusing... Until you die, that is. I see this as a good thing, but this game isn't extremely easy. 
 It's kind of good that it offers at least a small challenge. Though this isn't a game you could 
 play over and over, though you can play it for months. In "big trains", that's much of everything.
 
  
  PS - if you don't want to check the "read mes" about the mods, then PM me, don't hesitate to. I'll 
 explain it all, as I've made 200 mods on my GTA :P. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintmatty
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Great game and its a MUST!!
  one of the greatest games ever comes to the pc!
  
  its better for pc as u can get cool mods and stuff for it eg: MTA AND SAMP
  MTA IS A MUST FOR 
 THE PC VERSION!
  VERY GOOD FUN!
  
  great storyline!! very intense...
  great cast and characters! (OG LOC BABY! LOL)
  great soundtrack!! (not the best gta vice city 
 was the best)
  GREAT EVERYTHING!! lol
  A MUST!!!!!
  
  best in the series in my opinion.............
  
  !!!!! gta IV soon!!!!!
  
  
 
  
  GTA GTA GTA GTA GTA GTA GTA GTA GTA GTA GTA GTA GTA GTA GTA GTA GTA GTA GTA GTAGTA GTA GTA GTA 
 GTA GTA GTA GTA GTA GTAGTA GTA GTA GTA GTA GTA GTA GTA GTA GTAGTA GTA GTA GTA GTA GTA GTA GTA GTA 
 GTAGTA GTA GTA GTA GTA GTA GTA GTA |...
  |
  |
  |
  |
  V
  
  IS BEST!!!
  SAINTSROW= GTA COPYCATS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofhell2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 5:16 am PT
Review:  Positive
  - Superb gameplay
  - So much to do
  - Most of the missions are cool
  - Some nice words
  - Great radio stations
  
  Positive
  - Unstable framerate
  - Some characters 
 look incomplete
  
  This is surely a game that shouldn't be missed by anyone. Rockstar delivers a great game. You can 
 do alot of things in the game. For those who aren't familiar with the series, Grand Theft Auto 
 is a good that you can do what gangsters do. Like shooting other people, run over them with a car, 
 fly in a plane, swim, punching policemen, well other things which are things you won't probably 
 find in other game, unless they borrow heavily from this game. 
  
  San Andreas lets you do whatever you want, practically. You can either follow the story or just 
 adventure yourself through the city. In this game you will be CJ. He comes back after 5 years, 
 then he finds out that his mother was dead and as he enters he gets arrested. You will have three 
 other guy with you which are Sweet, Big Smoke and Ryder. One of your enemies will be the Ballas 
 and they will shoot you if you go in their territory. 
  
  Most of the missions are fun and interesting. The story isn't linear. You can take missions from 
 whoever you want, if there are missions. Completing missions will make you gain respect, even when 
 you go in enemy territories and paint their signs with green spray. Most of your time, you will 
 drive people around. You can drive all sort of vehicles like cars, motors, bicycles and if you're 
 lucky enough you might find a train ( even though it's not exciting driving it ) . You can drive 
 boat and even planes and helicopters. Almost all the car, you have to steal them. One great advantage 
 of San Andreas is that it has so many cheats. Some cheats are for unlimited health, unlimited ammo, 
 more cars, even 'summon' vehicles. And there are much more. 
  
  San Andreas isn't that great on graphics. Some characters look unfinished. These are normally the 
 people that sell items, like fast-food and the man that gives haircuts. Also some characters don't 
 behave the way they are suppose. There are really few of these. Radio Stations are really good 
 on the other hand. And the framerate is completely unstable at times.
  
  San Andreas is best on the PS2, but i found the PC version a little better. But this one shouldn't 
 be missed by anyone who wants an experience like no other. There are of course more things, but 
 i don't want to spoil it, so play the game and find out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 12:20 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto is a title well deserving of it's M rating, you can almost do anything in this 
 game. This alone is enough to suck you into the corrupt state that is San Andreas. Grand Theft 
 Auto San Andreas does not only innovate on past Grand Theft Auto's but does what many sequels fail 
 to do, bring a fresh new storyline without seeming contrived and old. Rather it feels fresh and 
 new and does not stray far away from the great things Vice City and GTA 3 had. 
  
  The gameplay of San Andreas feels much the same apart from the numerous new features introduced. 
 Some of these include not one but three cities all of which play a major role in the storyline 
 and are a blast to explore. The countryside is also surprisingly interesting as there is a variety 
 of things to do and little towns await to be discovered not to mention the monster jumps that await 
 behind hills and forests. For the PC the aiming system is the same as usual and not much has changed 
 in terms of combat. New ways of using the combat though do emerge such as the ability to participate 
 in gang wars in Los Santos. This alone is a blast and functions as a fullgame, it can take up to 
 15 hours just to take over the turf and it is quite fun. Overall this game offers many new things 
 to do and will keep you entertained for hours. 
  
  Graphically the game is quite interesting. Though it does not carry the most powerful engine in 
 the world and the graphics do appear dated when compared to other games, the player can look past 
 this as the graphics never were the major reason of the appeal of GTA. The gameplay is what makes 
 this game special. The graphics do their part and are good enough to make the graphics unimportant 
 in the long run although I understand for some this will cause you great pain and affect your experience.
 
  
  The sound and other features of this game are astounding. The radio offers a variety of stations 
 with amazing music. The radio chit chat is also amusing to listen to and provides many laughs. 
 For PC users, the game is extra special as there is a large modding community putting out multiplayer 
 mods and adding new features to the game (Hot coffee anyone?) . These mods are sure to make you 
 come back for more and kept me hooked for a very long time.
  
  Overall this game is an amazing game and a must have for any fan of action adventure or for anyone 
 who has even a passing interest in video games. It is a classic sandbox game and a staple of any 
 collection and at 19.99 at most stores this game is a steal now. Though is suffers in graphics 
 and some other small things, this game is as close to perfect as anything I have ever played. It 
 truly is a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blurrypixel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto - San Andreas
  
  What's to like:
  - Huge area to explore
  - Many mini-games
  - Freedom of doing what you want
  - Long campaign
  - Great character development
 
  - Great replay value
  - Superb level design
  - Superb voice-overs
  - Superb animations
  
  What you may not like:
  - Unfocused story
  - F/B/N-words used in 
 abundance
  - Intense violence
  - Weak radio stations selection
  - Uninteresting Dates
  - Character models are very blocky 
  - Low-res textures on characters
  - Weak ending
  - No 
 map key
  - Few bugs, game crashes and weak enemy AI
  
  
  Note 1: Version played: PC, 3.00 with no mods.
  Note 2: Violence and language is only mentioned 
 so that the reader is aware of it and is in no way a reflection of this reviewer's preferences.
 
  
  
  Story
  
  You play as Carl Johnson ("CJ") , a car theft enthusiast that has been recalled home to attend his 
 mother's funerals.
  
  Upon your arrival, trouble will come your way really quickly. Your family is struggling with gang 
 related issues and also, some crooked cops are blackmailing you in doing tasks for them.
  
  From that point on, you will be the instrument in fixing everyone's problems. In doing so, your 
 fortune and influence will expand; up to a point that you will get entangled in some unwanted business.
 
  
  The first 15-20 "in the 'hood" missions are coherent as everything seems to be related and have 
 purpose. The immersion is total and you really feel like that typical brotherhood gangster. Unfortunately, 
 after you complete the first area (out of 3) , it will deviate up to a point to make you lose complete 
 sight of your original goal. The actual missions you get from that moment on are more or less odd 
 jobs that you are surprisingly willing to do without any real incentive given. 
  
  For the last area, the ending on its own is quite unsatisfying, as you don't directly deal with 
 your nemesis. What's also a bit awkward is that the story tries to justify anything you do in a 
 positive manner, as if you were a good guy, which totally makes no sense on so many levels. For 
 instance, you are against drug dealing and yet, will allow pushers to do their work on your streets. 
 Your character will run over and kill hundreds of people and yet, you will pretend to want to save 
 lives in the story cut scenes. Why not make it a gangsta all the way? There is no need to pretend 
 otherwise as it makes the whole game setting incoherent. If we are to play a bad guy, we should 
 assume ourselves and be bad guys; there shouldn't be any shame to it. The "bad guys" in this story 
 are actually good - unlike you.
  
  The missions' difficulty ranges from trivial to somewhat, hard. You will find yourself doing a 
 lot of trial and error despite the very good instructions you get while doing them. It can also 
 get frustrating at times when you are done with a mission and while on your way back to officially 
 complete it, the spawning engine decides to backstab you. For instance, you've just completed your 
 task, are on your way back and while moving the camera, the spawning engine pops a police car right 
 in front of you, you hit it, get a star (this means the police is after you now) but because you 
 fell from your bike, you end up automatically "busted" and have to redo the whole mission. That 
 goes to say you cannot save a game during a mission. Save points are located at your house (s) and 
 sometimes close to a cluster of missions.
  
  On the other hand, the variety of the missions is great and some are highly satisfying (especially 
 those that require you to do some sky diving) .
  
  
  Story breakout
  
  There are a considerable amount of scripted story segments in GTA: SA. Each of them is superbly 
 choreographed: the voice actors are perfect, the animations are great (facial or else) and the 
 script is just immersive. It's unfortunate the actual textures are of such low quality, probably 
 a result of a direct console port. Still, Kudos to the Choreographer, rarely a special note is 
 given to this aspect of a game, so good job to the team that worked on it.
  
  
  Player stats
  
  There are some RPG elements as well. You can "level up" on many attributes. 
 Running frequently will increase your stamina, lifting weights will increase your muscle mass, 
 using often the same gun will make you more proficient with it and so on. Your actual character 
 model will reflect the muscle mass and fatness that you currently have, which is a nice touch. 
 You can also customize your looks by buying clothing and the like in stores. The clothing will 
 influence your Sex Appeal and the Respect received.
  
  You can walk, run, sneak, roll, jump, climb, swim (surface and under) and sky dive. Most of those 
 skills are affected by your physical attributes.
  
  
  Game
  
  GTA: SA shines by its long story and especially the million things you can think of doing. The world 
 in which you are thrown into is huge and begs to be explored.
  
  Though some areas will only become available to you only once you've progressed far enough into 
 the story, if you are not doing a mission, you are free to go and do whatever you like. Whether 
 it's cruising around town, attacking people on the streets or playing one of its many mini-games, 
 the choice is all yours.
  
  
  Vehicles
  
  What would GTA be without cars? You are still capable of taking any car you get your hands on from 
 anyone. Despite cops being on pretty much every square foot of San Andreas, you will face very 
 little opposition. Some of them will try to fight back, but they never pose any real threat.
  
  Sometimes, after hitting another car, they will go on a Road Rage on you. This is actually 
 quite a lot of fun as they are really doing a good job at trying to destroy you (r car) and can 
 actually keep up with you.
  
  There is a wide range of vehicle types available: cars, trucks, motorcycles, boats, planes, helicopters, 
 etc. All of them are unique in their behavior (traction, acceleration, maximum speed, break, etc.) 
 and really behave like you would expect them to. The only issue that could be mentioned is about 
 planes and choppers. Controlling them requires the use of many keys, so it might take you a while 
 to get used to the controls, but once you are past that, the planes and choppers are tons of fun 
 to pilot.
  
  One neat feature of GTA: SA is the ability to customize your vehicle. You will be able to apply 
 new paint designs, turbos, hydraulic systems (to make your car hop) , and other related tweaks. 
 This is good for your car collection and car races, though, not as much for your mission-to-mission 
 use, as you will lose them if you bring them with you.
  
  The cars spawn in the same fashion as we are used to: usually where you are not looking. This can 
 lead to some unrealistic behaviors. For instance, you could be riding on the highway with nobody 
 in front of you and then look back for a second (to get a better vehicle maybe) and get into a 
 big crash before you know it. This happens because the game spawns new vehicles when your "back 
 is turned". Another example would be while speeding your way through traffic on a highway, then 
 to have everyone come to a full stop because the spawning engine decided to spawn a bicycle in 
 your lane. I also once had a plane spawn on the strip...!
  
  
  Radio
  
  One could wish Rockstar had taken more time in their song selection. You still have the different 
 types: Chat, Country, Funk, Hip Hop and Rock but no Dance, not much Pop and no Punk. The Alternative 
 station isn't really alternative. You have a few notable songs (Personal Jesus (Depeche Mode) , 
 Welcome to the jungle (Guns 'n Roses) ) , but they are quite limited. The actual commentators are 
 usually funny the first time you hear them, but they get old real quick. The hip-hop channel might 
 feel like the best station for the experience -- but you really can't associate GTA: SA with the 
 90s.
  
  
  Dates
  
  During your adventures you will meet a few girls. In order to get a Date, you need to fit the girl's 
 requirements (style, muscle, etc.) . Once she is your girlfriend, you will be able to take her around 
 for a bite, go to a dance club or simply for a ride. Maximizing a relationship will grant you access 
 to some Special items, like clothing and vehicles.
  
  Some dates are also part of the main plot. Those are actually entertaining while the other ones 
 are unfortunately bland, as you don't get to do anything interesting with them. There is no romance 
 or uniqueness about them. So it quickly gets repetitive and a bit of a hassle. Though, if you are 
 really interested in the rewards, then be prepared to taste some of GTA's Cold Coffee.
  
  
  Mini-Games
  
  There are many mini-games at your disposal in GTA: SA, here are a few of them: 
 
  - Car races, Taxi rides, Pimping rides, Pool, Arcades, Blackjack, Sky Diving, etc.
  
  
  Gym & Unarmed combat
  
  There are 3 unarmed combat styles: Boxing, Kung Fu, and Kickboxing. 
 They don't play a big role but are still satisfying to use here and there. Weapons are much more 
 useful.
  
  You can train at the Gym to increase your muscle mass, your stamina and your fighting kills. Know 
 though, that you won't need to go to the Gym frequently. If you spend some time maximizing all 
 your attributes early on, you probably won't need to go back again.
  
  
  Weapons
  
  There are many weapons available. Some can be bought, others can only be found. You lose them all 
 when you die. So dying will probably make you want to reload your last saved game instead of simply 
 continuing. Note: there is a girlfriend that allows you to keep them when you die if you max out 
 your relationship with her.
  
  Among the weapons you can find, the most notables are: 
  Katana, Chainsaw, Flame Thrower, Rocket Launcher, Sniper Rifle, AK-47 and C4.
  
  
  San Andreas
 
  
  One of the best aspect of GTA: SA is how well designed the world is. There is everything from poor 
 quarters to pro-stadiums. You will explore mountains, deserts, rivers, highways, small villages 
 and of course, bigger cities. The people wondering those streets really reflect the type of area 
 you are in at a specific time of the day. Everything is very well designed and looks really good.
 
  
  
  
  Conclusion
  
  Grand Theft Auto - San Andreas is definitely bringing the crime fantasy to life. Though it has 
 its share of flaws and falls short in delivering a complete experience in the actual campaign and 
 on some of its side quests, GTA: SA still shines by the freedom of its design, its great gameplay 
 and its insanely high amount of features available that will bury you and keep you entertained 
 for days.
  
  
  Great Game, 8.8/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: razvminem
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 6:11 am PT
Review:  It is a great game, you got a lot of possibilities. The thing that you receive experience in time 
 if you drive a car ,or a motorcicle ,or a bike is nice. It gives the player the liberty to move. It 
 is not boring, because you can recruit a few hommies and go take over a hood. Even that it past two 
 years from the release of the game is still a excelent game. He got a few things that I didn't like 
 it, for example, it were nice if you can go to a gas station and put gas in your car. Another thing 
 that I don't like, it was that the gang you can recruit were too stupid. But in the final it is 
 a great game and everyone should play it. I hope that this new Grand Theft Auto Liberty City it 
 will be the game of the year, and I prey to God that those from rockstar will make it on PC too, 
 because they will lose a lot of they fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Migsten
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  San Andreas was a cool game overall. The game was huge as compared to the previous GTA games. There 
 were plenty of new vehicles, some were cool, some were old, and some I wish were not in there. 
 There were many more cool features but there were more things I hated about the game then I liked. 
 The graphics were a big disappointment. The game appeared to be very musty and very fuzzy. I hate 
 how your vision gets extremely blurry when you drive fast, it looks horrible and makes it very 
 difficult to drive. The camera angle was what disappointed me the most. When you're driving the 
 camera angle is automatically fixed to a default unchangeable position that is so low you can barely 
 see what lies ahead of you. It was nice to be able to completely control the camera angle manually 
 with the right joystick, but it did not make driving any funner or less of a hassle. I do like 
 how when they make a map that is based off of a real life city but it is not exact. It has similar 
 shape and key characteristics but the roads are not configured identically, and the roads are not 
 constant for long distances-but in San Andreas the roads were much too short. It was too far from 
 a real city. It's hard to explain but they did it right in GTA 3 they did okay in Vice City but 
 in San Andreas it was too far from making your experience seem like you were in a real city. None 
 of the gun sounds were like a real gun. I've never heard a real gun but it sounds nothing like 
 guns in other games or even in previous GTA games.
  The environment was very boring. There were no city sounds and it just seemed dead.
  I do not 
 think San Andreas deserves what game-spot rated it as (9.6) . The game may seem very cool at first 
 but you will maybe soon realize what was put into that game that should have never been in there. 
 GTA 3 was much better. It never seemed to get boring and they made liberty city seem so much like 
 a real city by the way it looked, and sounded.
  I have no comment on the badlands of San Andreas they felt just right but the cities were a huge 
 disappointment.
  Hopefully if there is another upcoming GTA game it is in present day and looks and feels more like 
 a real city environment. 
  This game has many differences from the PS2 version. It runs a lot better than the PS2 version 
 but are there a lot of these unneccessary loading screens when you do stuff.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: commander55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar Games continues to amaze with this revolutionary addition to their already dumbfounding 
 gamut. You play as CJ, an unrecognized individual with many goals and dreams. A hard climb to the 
 top is what it's all about as you play in this wonderful new 'San Andreas' desert terrain. Who 
 could resist the temptation of virtually trading places with a hardcore gangster with an irrefutably 
 exciting life? The realism could not be any better. An array of missions from a truly legendary 
 organization can last over a year for some gamers. Also, many find it easy to relate to this character 
 that experiences a bad patch and does everything in his power to correct that. Many-a-time we look 
 for that special game that gives you that feeling of intensity as we play around with real situations 
 to no avail. In addition, with a truly customizable level of graphics options this game is fully 
 playable on even the worst of computers. It has remained the best game that I have ever ventured 
 into playing. Companionship is never a predicament as your missions will lead you into some very 
 attention-grabbing situations. In this truly bona fide legend one eats, drinks, dines, communicates 
 and thinks at the same time. This game is another true original with music that spans the decades. 
 Ever thought about listening to 80's rock while cruising down an artificial highway? Well now is 
 your well deserved opportunity. One can only ponder as to what will be the next game in this series 
 but as of now we are blessed with a role-playing game of epic proportions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frank138
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  GTA, All of the GTA games have been great including the very first one, which was a brand new idea, 
 and it quickly, caught on with avid gamers. Rockstar Games have improved upon each of the games 
 since the first one and are still going strong, looking to GTA 4, which is coming out later this 
 year.
  The game play on GTA San Francisco, i believe is excellent. The missions are innovative, but can 
 sometimes get repetitive, there are also so many of the missions that it keeps you hooked hours 
 at a time. 
  There are so many guns and weapons that you are able to use on the game, and the number of cars 
 are endless. I have played it on a number of formats, PC and Xbox 360, i do prefer the controls 
 on the Xbox 360 as they are easier to use but the pc game play makes up for that. It can get fiddly 
 on the PC if you're in a difficult situation moving the mouse around as it can be unresponsive, 
 whereas the Xbox360 has no problems. 
  The graphics are also impressive and build upon the previous games.
  I really do have to say 
 that i love the game the free roaming once you have completed the game is unbelievably good.
  I do have to confess i do use the vehicles cheat as it allows you to fly planes and cover the whole 
 map in an instant. 
  I don't have a bad word to say about the game, as i would recommend it to anyone.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: noootzalicious
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2008 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Fully interactive simulated city that you can fly, walk, drive, combat, lead a gang around the 
 city, even have several girlfriends, from nice ones to.. bad ones..! Its like having a whole state 
 you can run around in in complete freedom. 
  
  But best of all are all the mods. The cheats and the mods available for download are numerous and 
 many are very good. They range from
  avatar conversions or scenery additions to complete conversions.
  Using the available cheats 
 will allow you to experience a whole new
  level in gameplaying as you are able to experience a state wide riot
  or even..... fly your car 
 like in Chitty Chitty Bang Bang.
  
  There is nothing Gta can do to improve this game, except for a higher
  polygon count with the 
 3d characters and environment, and of course....
  different environments.
  
  However, it would be cool if you could add an internet radio stream
  directly into the user track 
 radio station.
  
  The story is very good, and very sympathetic.
  
  This is a fully realized masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dklingen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 6:56 am PT
Review:  Though it may seem odd to review GTA: San Andreas at this time (over two and a half years after 
 it's release on the PC, there is a reason why I am doing this. I have decided that my favorite 
 genre of games in sandbox games. I originally played through GTA: SA in late 2005. However, last 
 night I was bored and so I decided to fire it up. There are two changes on my computer since I 
 last played the game - it now is running a dual core CPU and an 8800GT GPU. I decided to max out 
 the graphics settings 16080x1050, 3XAA, ... WOW what a difference. I loaded one of my saved games 
 near the end and just flew, drove, and boated around. The game looked so much better then when 
 I first played it that I decided to play it again. It is truly amazing the amount of location based 
 detail Rockstar has placed across the map. Overall, the game is just a blast (minus the cussing 
 which I could do without) . GTA IV will be hard pressed to better the experience of GTA: SA. Unfortunately, 
 PC gamers probably get to wait a year after it's release before we see it. The only advantage is 
 that hopefully we end up with the best end product. Anyhow if you have the game you might want 
 to revisit the experience. Also, I saw Steam now sells it online for $20 (what a killer deal) . 
 Happy gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 9
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is another amazing installment to add to the series. Carl Johnson 
 is back from Liberty City after leaving because of his mothers and younger brothers fatal deaths. 
 After several years, CJ returns home to take back the Johnson Family Power with his older brother, 
 Sweet, and his crew. However, during the battle for power in San Andreas, CJ will experience many 
 problems from the police, gang enemies, and even his own friends. CJ will explore many parts of 
 the Nevada like state, which include, Los Santos, the Badlands, San Fierro, the Desert, and Las 
 Venturas. Moreover, San Andreas has many new features, such as, getting tattoos, getting your hair 
 cut, customizing your cars, buying clothing, and much more. CJ will have to go through driving school 
 and flying school to unlock other vehicles. Also, to become strong and in good physical shape, 
 CJ could go to the gym to exercise, but he also has to watch what he eats (food gives health) . 
 The graphics are nothing mind blowing, quite the same as the previous GTA's. The sound is the same 
 also, except for the voice actings, were you will hear some familiar voices, such as, Ice T and 
 Samuel L. Jackson. Overall, Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is an amazing addition to one of the 
 best selling series. It may not be the better than Vice City, in my opinion, but San Andreas will 
 definitely not disappoint. There are more than 50 weopons and equipment to use and many vehicles 
 to drive, from cars, to motorcycles, to even jets. If you already played the PS2 or even the Xbox 
 version there isn't really any point of getting the PC version, except if you want to mod it, which 
 I highly recommend. Ultimately, Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is a must play for any fans of the 
 series or any action adventure fan, there is a good 10-15 hour storyline but after that there is 
 still a thousand things to keep you interested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evil_Insane
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar Games are widely respected by all. They create games that surpass the boundaries of videogaming. 
 They single-handedly brought the free-form gaming into popular gaming with Grand Theft Auto way 
 back in 1998. They then, systematically, changed the world by causing controversy with its sequals, 
 GTA2, GTA3, Vice City, and with games such as Manhunt. Their games are the fastest-selling as well 
 as most popular games on the market, and their games are the single reason a lot of people own 
 the Playstation 2. In short, they are geniuses. Each game has been better than the last, and they 
 have reached a level of brilliance surpassed only by Nintendo, Blizzard and Sega.
  
  Their fifth game in the Grand Theft Auto franchise is GTA: San Andreas. Named after, like its predecessor, 
 one of the three cities within the first GTA game, it has been hailed as the greatest game ever 
 made. Do I agree? Yes and no.
  
  Story 7/10
  
  You are Carl Johnson, better know as CJ. Your mother has been murdered and you are called back 
 to your home in Los Santos, San Andreas to deal with the funeral. Along the way, however, you get 
 accosted by a few dodgy cops, and, before you know it, you're thrown into a rival gang's territory. 
 You then go on a tirade of murder, carjacking, gang wars, and general crime.
  
  The story isn't really one story at all, but a bunch of separate adventures, as it were, revolving 
 around the protagonist, CJ. However, they don't seem to have much structure. As opposed to going 
 on a vendetta and finding out who killed his mother, he skips merrily along, doing errands for 
 people. It doesn't seem to really have a structure and means that you've got no reason to do half 
 the actions because they lead up to nothing.
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  
  One word to describe the gameplay would be "varied". Another would be "boring"
  
  Not that 
 the action itself is boring, but you feel that slight sense of dj vu, as if you've been in these 
 instances before. And you have. For the last three games. I'm not saying it's not fun, of course, 
 but there are instances when you think that the missions in question (generally errands or car 
 chases) could have been left out, or at the very least tinkered with. A few of these missions are 
 fine, but when they appear every two missions, you have a feeling they clog up the works.
  
  The game is, however, as I said, very varied. One minute you might be killing a bunch of crack 
 dealers, the next you could be planning an assault on a hotel filled with cops, and the next doing 
 a cross-country drive to get to a friend before he's beaten to death. And these missions are pure 
 genius. You want to complete them because they're so fun. You have an immediate sense of fun when 
 you play these missions, that is, that you enjoy that the developers did something different for 
 a change.
  
  The game has added some magnificent features to the game. There are more mini-games including gambling, 
 playing pool, trucker missions, girlfriends, taking over gang territories, going to various schools, 
 and taking over freight trains. These are fine in their own right, but they very rarely offer rewards. 
 In Vice City, you could buy various franchises, (clubs, taxis, auto dealership etc.) and, once 
 completed, you reaped the rewards of lots of money. In San Andreas, there are no franchises to 
 buy, and as such, there are very little side-quests.
  
  To wit, almost all missions in the game, bar a slight few, are within the main storyline. So, even 
 though you have an immense amount of missions, most are compulsory. Thus, if you get stuck on a 
 particularly hard mission, nine times out of ten, you're pretty much stuck playing that hard mission 
 until you complete it. Although this gives the game a structure, it takes away from the "free-form" 
 nature of GTA games. About 90% of the missions are story missions, so once you've completed the 
 game, aside from the random-generated quests like taxi-driving, vigilante and the like, you're 
 desperately short of any true missions. Of course, you can always wreak havoc, steal cars, shoot 
 pedestrians, fight the police, have car chases and generally cause bother. And this is where San 
 Andreas shines.
  
  The map is massive. Easily three or four times the size of Vice City in its entirety. There are 
 three main cities  Los Santos, (Los Angeles) San Fierro (San Francisco) and Las Venturas (Las 
 Vegas) . There are also smaller hamlets mixed in there for good measure. To connect these cities, 
 there are winding backroads, deserts, freeways, countryside, oceans, bridges and mountains. Driving 
 from place to place, although time-consuming, is beautiful to behold, especially when you consider 
 that this entire area was created, bit by bit, rock by rock, by Rockstar.
  
  The downsides, however, to creating such a massive map is, of course, that a lot of it is empty 
 space. That is, that nothing of value is contained therein. Red County, although expansive, only 
 contains a total of six points of interest, and entire portions of the cities are never used in 
 the missions and exist only for you to explore, which is great in its own right, but the annoying 
 thing is that if the game was shrunk so that only the places of interest were shown, the game would 
 be about the size of all three of GTA3's islands. Vice City, although being only a fraction of 
 the area used in San Andreas, was at least utilized to maximum capacity, so that you felt like 
 you were really squeezing every last drop out of it. 
  
  San Andreas begs to be explored. The game helps you along by giving you a number of collectables 
 to find. GTA3 and Vice City had the hidden packages. San Andreas has spray paint tags, oysters, 
 horseshoes, camera icons, and other such hidden things to strive for. A fine idea, but it would 
 take you forever to find them all, and the rewards are not large enough to warrant such an extensive 
 search.
  
  Rockstar have implemented an RPG-like stats system within the game to help you create a character 
 that is as customizable as they could get. You can train CJ in many aspects including his fitness, 
 hunger, strength, stamina, sex appeal, body fat, expertise in weapon types, driving skills, swimming 
 speed and lung capacity. Eating a lot of fast food to quench hunger, driving everywhere and not 
 running enough can make CJ fat. Likewise, training can tone him up, make his attacks more powerful, 
 and help him fire more accurately.
  
  You can also customize what CJ wears, his hairstyle and his facial hair, as well as his tattoos. 
 These affect certain parts of the game, but it would have been nice to see it having a more integral 
 part in the gameplay, such as wearing a rival gangs colours in order to infiltrate their ranks 
 for some side-quests, or make you invulnerable to attack in their territory.
  
  You can also pretend that you're on that TV show, Pimp My Ride, and bring in a vehicle to add such 
 things as decals, change the paint, and add turbo, hydraulics, and different hubcaps. A nice addition.
 
  
  The game is by no means perfect, but it isn't a bad game. It's a good game that tries too hard 
 to be too many things at once and only succeeds in a few. Take the mini-games for instance. Although 
 a nice distraction from the real game, you can play different games in shops or even in one of 
 your many hideouts. Except the games are shallow, and probably cost the developers a total of two 
 lines of code. Even if they only put in one game, but made it decent, I wouldn't have minded, but 
 it just seems like no effort was put in. But, that said, San Andreas is a crime-simulator, and 
 not a life-simulator, so it's forgivable.
  
  Graphics 6/10
  
  Dear oh dear, Rockstar. Where did you go wrong? I played both the Playstation2 and PC versions 
 of the game, and both feel like the game was created circa 2001. The graphics are actually worse 
 than Vice City. I checked. Vice City, a prequel, is better than its sequel. Perhaps it's the game's 
 size that pushes so much pressure on the processor that it couldn't handle decent polygon models, 
 but either way, the graphics are below average expected.
  
  The cut scenes are dire and don't seem to provide the cinematic atmosphere that they desperately 
 try to give. It does have moments when it could almost pass for a decent-game, but these days, 
 it just looks blocky and false.
  
  The in-game graphics are acceptable, but by no means perfect, especially regarding the pedestrians. 
 The game does, however, have excellent lighting effects, especially later when you enter the desert.
 
  
  The mediocre graphics do have their upside, however, when driving through the cities. Everything 
 feels so smooth, it's like sliding on butter. There is very little pop-up and if there were any 
 frame rate drops, I didn't see them.
  
  The graphics grow on you the more you play the game, but if you look at Doom 3 and Halo 2, the 
 significant drop in quality almost makes your eyes bleed.
  
  Sound 7/10
  
  The sound is excellent, very well presented. The voice acting is superb, containing such legends 
 as Samuel L. Jackson, and the now-deceased Chris Penn. The music is great, relying, rather heavily, 
 on the rap genre, which is acceptable considering that the game revolves around the "urban gangster" 
 stereotype, reminiscent of Boyz N Da Hood and Menace to Society. The rock stations, however, are 
 excellent, and are a welcome change.
  
  The profanity, however, is overdone. The game is, no doubt, realistic. All "bad words" are said 
 here. All. Every last one of them. I think Rockstar actually created new ones to be used specifically 
 for this game. The profanity, however, is saturating the game, realistic or not, the script seems 
 like it was written by a team of pirates, drunken sailers and fifteen-year-olds.
  
  Even the radio stations curse. GTA3 was genius because it lampooned popular culture through the 
 tongue-in-cheek radio. Vice City was also great because it focused on the Cold-War era fear of 
 Communism, as well as fashion that was cool in the eighties, but is very much uncool now. San Andreas 
 has none of this witticism; instead the "comedy" is crude language and unintelligent digs at the 
 working-class Americans that no doubt listen to that type of radio. You won't laugh, you won't 
 think its intelligent, and, most of all, you'll think it's superfluous. It could have been made 
 much funnier by limiting the language and using it only when needed, instead of every other word.
 
  
  Don't get me wrong, profanity doesn't insult me, but I think that if it were only used when necessary, 
 i. e., in certain cut scenes, and when it has the most powerful effect. Instead, it's used throughout 
 the game, so much so that it loses its impact before you even reach the second city.
  
  Presentation 7/10
  
  All the menus are laid out very well and give you all the info you need, 
 including the famous GTA stats menu, which tells you everything from bullets shot to cars blown 
 up to gang members killed. The HUD gives you all the usual info  weapon selected, heath, armour, 
 map etc. 
  
  The traditional health meter has changed. As opposed to being a numerical value, which gradually 
 reduced as you took damage until you hit zero and died  it is now an actual meter, which is handy 
 because it is expandable, but it lacks the "oh crap" affect that the numbers had. When the meter 
 is a quarter full, you think everything fine, but if it was 25 points worth of health, you'd be 
 extra cautious. A minor issue, but an issue nonetheless.
  
  Control 10/10
  
  The controls, as with most of these newfangled PC games, are customizable to the Nth degree. As 
 the game is a port of a console game, its best played with a controller, but good fun can be had 
 without, and can actually serve you better, as you can aim with the mouse for better accuracy, 
 especially in the hectic gunfights. 
  
  Using the Playstation2 arrangement, the buttons/keys have different actions depending on whether 
 you're on foot or in a vehicle, and contain the usual run, jump, shoot, target, look functions 
 when walking, or drive, reverse, exit or enter a vehicle, side mirrors, rear view mirrors, use 
 the hydraulics in a modded car, lean forward or back when on a bike, handbrake, change radio station 
 and activate the vehicles special mode such as turrets, bombs, machine guns and rockets. It's easy 
 enough to find a good key layout and become comfortable with it, although some might find there 
 are too many buttons.
  
  Extra features 9/10
  
  A small amount of extra missions, but the game makes up for this with gusto by adding the hundreds 
 of pickups, as well as the games, gambling, playing pool, racing, going to school, getting a girlfriend, 
 having gang wars, taking territory from rival gangs, vigilante, taxi, fire engine, ambulance and 
 other such missions as well as just going crazy and killing a bunch of innocent people for kicks. 
 This game isn't made to make you bored and you'll have fun whatever you want to do.
  
  Play Time 7/10
  
  Since you have to complete 90% of the 200 plus missions in order just to 
 complete the story portion of the game, it should take you quite a while. I racked up about 20 
 hours, but that wasn't counting the amount of times I reloaded because I couldn't be bothered going 
 the whole way around the map and collecting a bunch of weapons just to complete a mission. I'd 
 say its closer to 30 hours.
  
  Replayability 7/10
  
  I don't know if I'd like to play the story missions again for anything other than to have fun with 
 them  and some of them are pure fun from start to finish. I'd fire it up every now and again to 
 cause a bit of violence and drive at incredibly high speeds in a souped-up Banshee, but I'd still 
 rather play Vice City.
  
  Buy or rent? 10/10
  
  Buy. Not an outstandingly excellent game, but still one worthy of play. The sheer size of it would 
 warrant a purchase, as there is no way in blue blazes that a rent could give the games enormity 
 any justice.
  
  All in all, the game is flawed, but it is still a good game, if inferior to Vice City. The devices 
 implemented, although they could have been done better, were fine ideas in their own right, and 
 some of the missions surpass anything the other GTA games have given us. An experiment in gaming 
 that will be remembered as one of the most ambitious projects in modern programming, and a fine 
 job it was too.
  
  Percentage: (The separate scores added together) 79%
  
  Gamespot score: (Not an average) 8.0
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: savetehhaloz
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto San Andreas is one of the biggest free-roaming sandbox game maps out there. After 
 the PS2 release, this game is slightly dissapointing in the PC port. For example, the targeting 
 system really sucks; you have to press the right mouse button for the crosshair to appear. This 
 is just a minor problem as there are a couple of MODs out there to fix it. Another problem are 
 some of the missions. Some were just pointless (such as chasing a bunch of Ballas gang members 
 on top of a train while you're riding a motorbike) and this takes a couple of tries to fully complete 
 the mission (dodging on coming trains and bumpy roads) . This may put some GTA Fans off. The graphics 
 have improved (shine on the roads and especially cars)
  GTA San Andreas however improves upon the sandbox genre and the GTA seriies by adding the ability 
 to swim (which should have come in GTA Vice City, BTW it was Miami) , the ability to work out in 
 gyms, have girlfriends (not to mention the controversial hot-coffee mod for all you lonely guys 
 out there) , have weapon rating skills and driving rating skills. Another mention is the ability 
 to fly planes, not like the Dodo from GTA III but planes like WWII era aircraft, biplanes and even 
 a 737 jet. You can also customize CJ by the clothes he wears and his hair, but this isnt much compared 
 to other newer games like Saints Row (which offer FULL character cusomization) .
  
  GTA San Andreas is an immersive game with lots of oppurtunity to go out and explore the enormous 
 state of San Andreas (with tons of side missions and activities) . I highly recommend this game 
 for anyone who enjoys any sandbox, crime game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avals
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 16, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand why this game worth such a high score.. to me, it's competely brainless.. storyline 
 are boring.. AI are the worst I ever seen.. kill kill kill kill.. spawn spawn spawn spawn.. boom boom 
 boom boom.. what's for? Lots of bugs... boring gameplay.. (get bored in two hour) .. the thing is-you're 
 almost a superman that bring down entire gang hood down.. copter down.. tango down.. competely NOT 
 realistic.. mission are really **** how to say, meaningless.. like, you get to kill that guy usin 
 bike.. chase down another 3 with time limit.. while lots of things (those dumbass AI make you fail 
 a mission not becuase your skill.. imagine, YOU GET to hunt down 3 on motorbike with tough landscape 
 and highway with lOTS of cars.. and if you fire at the guy you need to hunt.. those damn cops will 
 chase after you.. and then lots of idiotic thing will happen, you get thrown of from the bike and.. car 
 crash.. and BOOM BOOM BOOM.. then, "mission failed-you destroyed your bike", or "mission failed-you 
 let those bikers left".. THIS IS INSANE STUPID!
  And there're car racing.. blah.. those are not racing ANYWAY. BTW, missions grows veyr boring after 
 leavin Los santo (the very first city you need to encounter which, in my option, the best one)
 
  
  This game is plain simple-require no skills nor any thinkin.. just idiotic run and gun.. superman 
 style..
  
  The good thing is-quite good soundtrack complexed with the game, you can relax sometimes when you 
 really wanna shoot at somethings.... although no realistic, and it got large map.. you can fly copters, 
 planes, tanks, everything-to kill.
  
  Too simple.
  
  Presentation-7
  Gameplay-7 (when you don't do missions) , or 5 (in mission)
  Graphic-5 Sound-6
  Difficulty-1 (when 
 needn't mission) , 8 (when in mission)
  AI-1 (In GTA-all are idiots except yourself)
  Overrall-7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00redbuffman00
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 16, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  All right, I used to have a higher and more acceptable rating on this game than 1. It was at a 
 time whene I really enjoyed San Andreas. It is not because it is old, it is not because it is boring, 
 it is because the PC version is a complete disaster to me and is extremely buggy and I hate this 
 game, but it is so addictive.
  
  The graphics are okay but could have done better. The gameplay is very well-done and love the targeting 
 a lot more than the PS2 version.
  But what made this game a total letdown is the fact that now everytime I load a game it freezes 
 and encounters an error. This happened very rarely but now this game drove me to a point to give 
 it the honest rating of one because this version is not worth it, nor is the PS2 version (and when 
 i mean the PS2 version I mean that very few scratches and POOF the game is done for. You have to 
 go and buy a new one.) and maybe the XBOX version too.
  
  Overall it is addictive and I wish i could play it again but the game cuts off on me and ends up 
 taking me away from what I used to call my second life! Yeah thats right!
  
  I guess I will never buy GTA4 if this is the grim reality of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thebigcheese6_6
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Firstly i have to say that if you havnt ever played gta san andreas you have to get your hands 
 on a copy. it is the most fun game that i have ever played. you are placed in a US state where 
 you can do whatever you want. whether you want to mod some race cars and blast round the streets 
 of san andreas or grab a dirt bike and rip up the backroads of san fierro. the size of this game 
 is immense, with three huge cities and numerous smaller towns. you can spend hours on missions 
 that are on the main storyline then ralise that youve only done 60% of the game and still have 
 a raft of side missions to complete. but in no way os this a bad thing, you can get lost in the 
 immersive gameplay. Bearing in mind that this game is getting to be a few years old now and with 
 the imminent release on GTA IV we can expect to see the price of this top class game plummet, so 
 dont miss your chance and grab this great game soon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidBrHU
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar Games became very popular, when they published a franchise named after a car crime: Grand 
 Theft Auto. After the top-down, bird-eye view in the late 90's, with Grand Theft Auto III first 
 released on Sony PlayStation 2 in October 2001, it became a very big phenomenon. It continued with 
 Vice City on 2002, then with, according of IGN, the best PlayStation 2 game ever made, San Andreas. 
 First released for the PS2 on late October 2004, then on early June 2005 for Microsoft xBox and 
 Windows PC.
  
  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is a third-person action adventure game, which has free-roaming, 
 like all Grand Theft Auto games and some cloned it, for example The Simpsons, Total Overdose, Driv3r, 
 and many more.
  
  The game starts with an African-American person named Carl Johnson, mostly known as CJ, who left 
 his home town Los Santos, San Andreas in 1987, when his brother Brian died. In 1992, when he lived 
 in Liberty City, he had a call by his other brother Sweet saying that their mom, Beverly died. 
 CJ decided to go back to his town to bury her. He gets trouble with some police officers, Frank 
 Tenpenny (voiced by Samuel L. Jackson) , Eddie Pulaski and Hernandez. CJ's job is to put his gang, 
 Grove Street Families (sometimes called GSF, or simply Families) on the map, and his rival gang, 
 the Ballas and Vagos. During his goal, he'll explore the whole San Andreas.
  
  Unlike Grand Theft Auto III and Vice City, you'll explore a state, instead of a simple big city. 
 You can explore three big cities: Los Santos, San Fierro and Las Venturas. There are many features, 
 you don't see on previous games, like ride a bicycle, go to the gym, dance, and show statistics 
 about CJ. Speaking of stats, they appear San Andreas would be a mixture of free-roaming action 
 adventure game and RPG.
  * Respect means that the higher the respect, the more members you can be in the gang battling with 
 the Ballas and Vagos. However, this is kinda useless.
  * Weapon Skill is important to make your weapons stronger, and at some of them you can use dual-wielded. 
 Muscle is about getting less damage from your enemies.
  * Fat is about keeping your energy, and it's important to able to run, get into some missions, 
 and girlfriends.
  * Stamina is useful when running away or after your enemy, sprint for a longer time.
  
  When 
 having a gun battle, it's easy to use your mouse and keyboard to get headshots and quickly attack 
 the another one, but it's easier when you use a gamepad. The shooting effects like most first-person 
 shooter games, like Call of Duty and Medal of Honor, when not aiming. At driving it's interesting 
 to look around with your mouse.
  
  The mini-games have the Paramedic, Firefighter, Vigilante, Taxi Driver, but there are more like 
 lowrider meets, dancing, drive the cargo to one place from another, and even do quarry missions. 
 The missions come from easy to hard, some missions make you surprise when you can do it on your 
 first try.
  
  The graphics are not close to next-gen, but the PC version is the best and the fastest one. You 
 can make your draw distance and resolution higher. The sound effects are also great and the dialogues 
 are great and very funny. Some missions' dialogues can really make you laugh. The funniest ones 
 are CJ's one-liners, when aiming at random people, carjacking, getting carjacked and fighting. 
 In radio stations, there are very great songs in almost every station, and radio DJs are creative 
 at comments. However, there's a problem with the sound, when it rains in the game, you can only 
 hear lightning and falling raindrops.
  
  Despite some glitches, graphical problems and the very controversial Hot Coffee Mod discovered, 
 Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas remains to be the greatest computer and video game ever published 
 by Rockstar Games or any publisher. It's an unforgettable and fun game you will play even ten years 
 after its release, it will remain in video gaming history. Let's hope that the upcoming Grand Theft 
 Auto IV will be just as or even more awesome than San Andreas we play even in almost three and 
 a half years after its release on the Sony's most successful hardware, PlayStation 2 and twenty 
 months after the xBox and Windows PC release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medwayman
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  A worthy successor to the GTA franchise. All the beautifull freeform play you ever wanted but now 
 way WAY bigger. I know I'm reviewing an "older" game but this is just one title that I never put 
 away.
  
  Some of my favorite features / moments:
  - earning the Hydra (harrier) and zooming around all the cities at jet speed
  - BASE jumping
 
  - flying planes between buildings and under obstacles
  - pulling stunts with the NRG bike in an environment providing limitless opportunity
  - User 
 Track radio station!
  - Customizing vehicles (though I wish they had more options)
  - Revenue generating properties
  - Brilliant voice acting
  - Hillarious radio stations.
  
 
  This game loses the 1 point out of 10 for missing the one critical element missing from ALL GTA 
 games: the ability to replay missions. There are some tasks that are so fun you'll actually hesitate 
 before saving the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrick00746
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  GTA: San Andreas have a lot of difference from the other GTA before cause im one of the fanatic 
 of rock-star and the word of GTA:
  But here and gta San Andreas you have many things to do and have fun from buying new and different 
 weapons like vice city there's three kinds of weapons.
  And also you can change the look of you're character by changing there hairstyle or even mustache 
 also you can change the outfit of you're character from head to foot also you can buy accessories 
 like watch and even chain for the best look of you're character.
  also you can customize you're to became a race car or maybe just for competition to other ese out 
 there that the requirement is you have a bouncing car.
  also you can burglary any house at night that you want except and the morning of course: also play 
 basketball and practice target shooting for the skill of you're weapon..............
  and many many more to do jso ust check this out  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HenriH-42
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Ah, the GTA series. One of the most popular game series ever made...
  
  Gameplay: 8/10 - The game is fun, really fun. There's no doubt about that. But it could've been 
 so much better if it weren't for the AI. Very bad AI indeed. There are quite a lot of missions 
 to do and area to explore, this is a very long game. It will take you forever if you want to complete 
 it 100%.
  
  Atmosphere & Immersion: 4/10 - This is where the game fails. There isn't really any atmosphere 
 at all. The game feels like an arcade game, and all the comments of the bystanders on the streets 
 are SO RETARDED. It annoys the hell outta you. Also, the buggy AI doesn't make this game any more 
 realistic either. Too bad it's the only  game out there (that I 
 am aware of.)
  
  Graphics: 6/10 - Oh please. It uses the same engine as GTA 3, what do you expect? But, the graphics 
 still do their job quite well. They're just not top of the line.
  
  Sound: 6.5/10 - Just about only really good thing in this game's sound is the voice acting on the 
 major characters. The other sounds are mostly really bland, except that the distant sound of traffic 
 is quite atmospheric. The radio channels are full of music that I don't really like, some I hate 
 even. But that can be replaced by your own tracks. The rap channels fit the game's setting & story 
 really well though.
  
  Physics: 3/10 - Well, it doesn't really have any physics, except on vehicles. And they are very 
 unrealistic in most cases. Very poor job here. Hopefully, GTA IV is much better in this area.
 
  
  Replay value: 8/10 - I find myself often playing this game from the start again. It's mostly because 
 you can customize CJ's (the player's) look, hairstyle, clothing, physique etc. And you could just 
 run around in the cities, it's fun actually.
  
  Value for money: 8/10 - Even with all it's shortcomings, the game is still worth the full 50  
 in my opinion. First of all, it's very long. You won't finish this in a week unless you just run 
 around from one mission to another as fast as possible. And second, the game is just fun to play.
 
  
  Bugs, Stability & Performance: 5/10 - This is filled with bugs, or should I say "missing features". 
 The AI is very basic, and the cops seem to appear from nowhere. There are also all kinds of clipping 
 bugs & stuff. It performs quite well on a modern PC.
  
  Will this game be remembered by old school gamers as a classic after 10 years?: - I think that 
 the GTA series will be remembered, yes. But not this individual game.
  
  Who would I recommend to buy the game?: - Pretty much anyone who doesn't except this to be atmospheric, 
 immersive or realistic.
  
  Final score (not necessarily an average) : 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggest_loser
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  GRAND THEFT AUTO: SAN ANDREAS (2005)
  
  
  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas (2005) places you deep into the fictional city of Los Santos. You 
 play Carl Johnson, known to most, as just C. J. He's a guy who's been away from the hood for five 
 years, living it out in Liberty City. Returning back to the hood where he grew up he finds that 
 things have changed. His homies don't have the power they once had and he is quickly framed and 
 blackmailed by Officer Tenpenny (voiced by Samuel Jackson) . It is up to you to win back the respect 
 for your family and clear your name. 
  
  Critics were not shy to praise this long, sprawling and epic game when it was originally released 
 on Playstation 2. This console port has also accumulated many accolades and a warm reception from 
 gamers. I have no played a Grand Theft Auto game since the second installment all those years ago. 
 I approached this game with some expectation for all the hype (and controversy) it had generated. 
 Strangely however, the game for me at least fell well short of what had been said about it. 
  
  Your task throughout the entire game is to complete a series of crazy missions ranging from 
 spray painting walls to stealing fighter jets. There are three huge city maps to explore as you 
 progress throughout the game. And when I say huge I mean absolutely enormous. The scale of the 
 game is just so grand. It is tremendously impressive how the developers Rockstar have crafted these 
 maps without a single load screen. You are free to explore these maps at your own will and as it 
 has been documented there is a great variety of activities to do. You can buy new clothes, go to 
 the gym, buy food, go to a casino and many more. Many of these contribute to your statistical points, 
 one of the new additions to the GTA formula. Food for example will increase your fat level and 
 as such lower your stamina. 
  
  The disappointment with these activities and statistics is how poorly they are implemented. As 
 a novelty they remain a fairly cool surprise. Yet beyond this they are little more than just a 
 novelty. Sure you have the option but really who is going to waste their time searching an entire 
 map for a Taco restaurant? You never seem to have to worry about your statistics either. They seem 
 to randomly increase and decrease throughout the game without your intervention. Your muscle for 
 example will just decrease even while you're swimming. The same is for your relationship with your 
 girlfriend, one of the more ridiculous and pointless components of the game. Having not seen the 
 old girl for many, many hours suddenly the progress with whatshername randomly increased  what 
 the? People have spoken about the level of freedom that having clothing stores and food places 
 give the game. Yet is it really a massively opened world? Many of the activities can only be accessed 
 and unlocked after a certain time of playing the game. It really comes off as a bit of a cheat 
 for a so-called freeform game. What is the point of having this huge open world if you're going 
 to say when the player can actually access it? 
  
  If you play the game as a linear sequence of missions to follow the "plot" though it doesn't fare 
 much better. Many of the missions don't actually contribute to the story and it comes off disjointed 
 at best. The game Mafia was infinitely superior in its storytelling with a much tighter plot. Everything 
 you did made a powerful contribution to the way of life you had chosen and the story as a whole. 
 Here it seems the developers are trying to be as silly and crazy as possible. I couldn't help but 
 feel that many of the tasks that I was being asked to do were just pointless. Towards the end of 
 the game for example you're told to steal a fighter jet and then go out and destroy some boats. 
 This late in the game it just felt preposterous with no real motivation or reasoning at all. 
 
  
  There are many colourful characters to meet in the game but many of them seem to disappear for 
 long periods of time and some really are better than others. The voice acting is quite solid all 
 round though. Tenpenny, Samuel Jackson playing Jules from Pulp Fiction is a pretty cool villain 
 while CJ remains likable, though I really wouldn't call him a protagonist. He really does come 
 across as a tool in the game with people always telling him what to do. The Truth  an aged hippy 
 voiced by Peter Fonda  isn't quite as great as you'd think either. While the paranoid CIA guy 
 (James Woods) is just strangeI found it to be a real muddle and it really drops the ball quite 
 a bit late by the second city. I began to lose track of who was who and what was happening. I really 
 didn't care all that much after a while. Some pretty snappy dialogue throughout aids the characters 
 though. For the most part it is very funny. I think James Woods has one of the better lines when 
 he reassures CJ: "You'll be back before you know it for a blow job and a baloney sandwich". Though 
 there remains a lot of gangster rapper talk which, as funny as it maybe, could be off putting for 
 some (can you dig it?) . 
  
  The core game play is made up of driving to a particular target, like sneaking into a mansion for 
 example, collecting an item or killing someone, and then escaping. One of my biggest problems with 
 the game is that there is a complete lack of a save system. You can save it at your safe house, 
 which is fine, but then you have to drive all the way to the mission, activate it and then partake 
 without a safety net. You can't save it during the mission and there are no checkpoints. If you 
 fail, well too bad, because you're going to have to load and then drive all the way back again. 
 This has got to be one of the most ludicrous design decisions I have ever seen in a game. The frustration 
 I went through in having to reply levels over ten times was unbelievable. It is also incredibly 
 annoying that once you've finished a mission you to have to drive back from the middle of nowhere 
 to your save point. The country missions are the worst offenders of this. It becomes so tiresome 
 and downright boring at times. 
  
  
  At least later in the game there are safe houses that can be purchased at little closer to the 
 missions but it still remains a real drag especially since there isn't even a restart mission button. 
 It just makes the game feel artificially difficult and padded out. Why Rockstar would want to do 
 this is a real mystery. 
  
  
  Its not like the game is short by any means. There are over a hundred missions as well as multiple 
 side quests, including taxi missions, vigilante jobs and ambulance stages. It is enormous. Without 
 the save system a lot of the fun of the missions is definitely sapped away though. What should 
 be crazy and hilarious just becomes aggravating It's a real shame. Yet the lack of a save is not 
 the only reason why the game suffers. Having been ported from a console system the usual control 
 problems have been inherited. While the game may work fine with a controller using the keyboard 
 is at times a nightmare. Lets just say I have been put off ever wanting to fly a plane with this 
 game. 
  
  The controls are often clumsy and awkward with the vehicles, particularly the aircraft. I actually 
 had to walk away from the game at times. I don't think I have ever, in ten years or so of gaming, 
 thrown my hands up and said, "I can't do this". Not until I met the old San Andreas that is. I 
 am still having nightmares about an optional mission called Supply Lines, where you have to control 
 a remote control plane. At least the motor vehicles are a bit more enjoyable than the aircraft. 
 My favourite is the motorbike. It can really glide along the streets and it makes for a smooth 
 ride. Others however, like low rider cars, are again way too loose in their controls. Turn slightly 
 during a chase and the car swerves way too much forcing you into a spin. It can be very annoying. 
 I don't think the cars are all that exciting in their design either compared to GTA II. At least 
 some of those were a bit imaginative, distinctive and crazy. Here you have your fare share of hatchbacks, 
 taxis, police cars and many more, nothing particularly special. 
  
  You will be doing a lot of shooting throughout the game and the gunplay is certainly better than 
 the driving. It never reaches the heights of Max Payne though since it's just so simplistic. Enemies, 
 or lemmings as I like to call them, will often run straight towards your line of fire allowing 
 you to take them down. There is no onscreen crosshair. Instead you have to hold down the right 
 mouse button and then aim (preferably to the head) . It feels a bit cumbersome at first but you 
 will eventually get used to it and its fairly enjoyable. You are given a fairly conventional set 
 of weapons including shotguns, machine guns, pistols, a chain saw, a knife, baseball bat and many 
 others. They never really have a lot of crunch to them since the sound effects are a bit flat. 
 The mini gun you use on a helicopter at once sounds more like a lawnmower with something stuck 
 in it then a highly charged weapon. The only really tension from these gun fights is derived from 
 the fact that you know if you fail you'll have to start again, which is a bit of a copout. 
  
  I just wish the AI (Artificial Intelligence) wasn't soI'm trying to think of a nice way to 
 put thisabsolutely dreadful. This game has got to have some of the worst AI I have ever seen. 
 Enemies will frequently run into walls and then run around in circles not realizing their path 
 is blocked. Police officers don't even seem to mind when you drive through a red light in front 
 of them or walk right past them with a gun in your hands. I know it's America but gosh you'd think 
 they'd be tougher on these things. Even worse is when you hire a gang to take back the hood. You 
 might as well have left them at home to watch MTV. Your homies will either get lost, fail to keep 
 up with you, get run over, or most hilariously I suppose, just stop at the traffic lights looking 
 bewildered. There was another fairly amusing moment of road rage when I stole a man's truck. He 
 leapt up off the road and then pulled out a golf club and began swinging at his own van only to 
 continuously fall short of his target. He didn't seem to mind though. It really is embarrassing 
 at times. 
  
  Visually the game is again a really mixed bag. In all fairness it has been ported from a console 
 game. Yet there really should have been much higher textures. Many look really flat and ugly and 
 dull and buildings in particular are of the copy and past job. Despite this there is no doubting 
 the effort of Rockstar to create such a detailed city. Streets are wonderfully compiled with tiny 
 details like streetlights and cars and pedestrians. The lighting from the sun is quite beautiful 
 too and the whole game does carry quite a stylish cartoon-like look about it. It just surprised 
 me though for all the effort placed into these cities the interiors of the buildings are really 
 lacking. You won't go into them all that much but areas like a mansion for example are minute and 
 never look or feel like what they're supposed to be. There is also not enough furniture in these 
 either. As silly as it sounds it looks just ridiculous to have the room of a mansion nearly empty 
 with any furnishings. The character models in the cut scenes aren't all that great either and don't 
 look well-animated, particularly compared to games like Half-Life 2. 
  
  If there were a strange compliment I could give the game it would be that San Andreas is strangely 
 addictive in its awfulness. Despite all its problems I kept coming back to the game to try and 
 finish it. (I eventually had to call it quits one mission from the end but that's a different story) . 
 Perhaps it is the likeability of the characters or the potential that the game and series has for 
 true greatness. With a proper save system, tighter story and improved AI there is much that Grand 
 Theft Auto IV could amount to. Word yo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infinite_venom
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  San Andreas, a game by Rockstar is another amazing game. The game has a lot more features than 
 its predescessors. One new features in the game is the ability to ride both a helicopter and a 
 plane which adds more realism to the game. The ability to also date in the game makes Grand Theft 
 Auto even better. The enemy AI though can be a little dumb as they'll sometimes charge at you mindlessly 
 or just sit in the open firing at you. Visuals of the game looks great though some objects are 
 pretty bland. The frame rate is also smooth which is nice. While playing, I experienced some freezing 
 in the game although after a couple a seconds, it resumes. It may not happen often but if it does, 
 its quite annoying. The sound and music in the game though is great.
  
  Theres not much difference of the PS2 and PC version of the game. The PC version may have some 
 slightly better performance and physics but thats it.
  
  Grand Theft Auto San Andreas is one of the most greatest games made by rockstar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2007 11:06 am PT
Review:  OK, GTa series started off excellent, then it remained at that level perhaps a bit lower with a 
 few sequels and now San Andreas brings it to a new level. 
  
  The entire GTA series is truly awesome. However, San Andreas brings some innovations, less than 
 I would have liked as there are so many ideas they can incorporate, but it is showing that the 
 GTA makers are on the way of making an all in one game, where they will use ideas from all the 
 brilliant games and put it into one. 
  
  I am tearing myself between giving it 9.5 because they haven't achieved what I think can be achieved 
 and because it is a bit short - many more missions should have been included. ... and giving it 
 10 because it truly is remarkable and worth playing and proved that new things are on their way 
 to be incorporated into making the ultimate game. 
  
  I have decided to give it 10 because it is legendary and must be played and I don't want to be 
 influenced by the fact that this type of game has already been seen ('seen that' 'done that') . 
 If I had not played the previous GTA games I am positive it would have got a 10 and so I award 
 it the status of a an ABSOLUTE LEGEND
  
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing 
 if you have nothing else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10) .
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone,
  
  Zak
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gauravfox
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:12 pm PT
Review:  GTA San Andreas.
  Well... GTA needs no introduction, and this Sequel in the GTA series is one of the best... i gotta 
 say..... the dudes at 'Rockstar' have put in almost everything they can in this game !! The most 
 Amazing Feature of this game is the Environments, man !!.... San Fiero, Las Ventures..... awesome...! 
 in this particular episode we can Drive anything, even fly a plane...! the plane is the coolest 
 part.... whenever you feel bored of playing the missions, just take a plane from the hangar and 
 go around the city..! choppers are available too....... apart from the boats. The music and soundtrack 
 is pretty cool, the voice of the characters and the dialogs are awesome and keeps you addicted to 
 the game..! when i first started playing this game, i never expected it to be soo big... i mean 
 its never ending at some point...!!! The Developers and designers of this game needs an applause... Great 
 Job Guys...! The graphics are pretty neat, apart from a few twitches here and there... Over all 
 this is the best in the series... and is a must have...! Great Game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: derekli05
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  By this time, especially after the success of GTA III and Vice City, the excitement is beginning 
 to wear off. When i originally heard of this title, i decided that Vice City was way too fun for 
 there to be a better sequel. Sure, i noticed some flaws and there're quite a bit missing, but the 
 extreme fun value more than makes up for it. I thought San Andreas was just another game, set in 
 another location. The formula was already set; it was no longer revolutionary. I was wrong. The 
 moment i loaded up the game, it had you going to your old house on a bike. That addition in itself 
 is great, as with the suburban setting of east Los Santos. The traffic seemed a little crowded, 
 the gang aggression was a little too strong for the beginning, and the first mission was unusually 
 hard, but those things are all really easy to get around. The missions are explained much more 
 easily now, and are even more open-ended than before. The combat seems a little awkward, with no 
 way of knowing where you're being hit from, and kind of hard to trace bullets, but the mouse and 
 keyboard controls are much better now. The lock feature is great, especially for melee combat. 
 I love the new highway, and can just cruise on it for hours on end. The wilderness is great also, 
 with great trails and jumps. The mountains are great for off-roading, whether on a bike or an SUV. 
 One complaint that i would have is that highway traffic is sometimes overly aggressive, often leading 
 to AI-caused wrecks (that i took no part in) . Once at a wreck, the AI cars often don't stop, piling 
 into the already-congested jam of cars. A great new addition is the ability to fly various types 
 of planes, and if you set the draw distance high, it's a great view from up there. Even clouds 
 are realistically rendered at the right altitudes; during a storm they're really low, and on a 
 nice sunny day they're almost nonexistent. Storms are also much more realistic; on a dark and stormy 
 night, one can maybe see only a few feet in front, the rain beats down on the pavement and cars, 
 and the water gets extremely choppy. Overall, GTA San Andreas contains the original formula that 
 made the previous 2 GTA games so fun, and expands on it. This is the best game in the series, and 
 probably one of the best computer games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloodychimp
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  GTA: VC is an amazing game. For about 4 hours. Then the fun of randomly murdering bystanders kinda 
 wears off. The story line is really boring, and unless your a 12 year old who wants to be a gangster 
 it probably wont hold your attention.
  The core gameplay is pretty fun. The driving controls are fairly responsive and the on-foot action 
 is fun. The star system that shows how much you are wanted by the police works out pretty well. 
 It's a pity the gameplay wasn't supported by an even half-way decent story.
  
  The graphics look like an N64 game. Nuff said.
  
  The sound is really the high point of this 
 game. There are a variety of different radio stations to listen to and a lot of the in game DJ's 
 are pretty funny. They do call ins and stuff like real radio DJ's do. Overall, it was nice to give 
 a variety of music to listen to.
  
  Unless your 12 and have delusions of being a tough gangster dude, you probably wont find the game's 
 story line entertaining. Killing random bystanders is fun for a while, but it also loses its charm 
 after a couple of hours. Overall, I don't recommend this game. It is way overrated, and people 
 ignore its shortcomings because playing it makes them feel "cool" and "mature". It might be worth 
 a rent to get your couple hours of fun slaughtering innocent civilians, but its definitely not 
 worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: livebyfaith85
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  This game has tons of mods that you can download from the internet. You can edit anything in the 
 game if you use the right software. I replaced the police cars in the game with my local city police 
 cars which I made by myself. The textures are fairly easy to edit and as well as the sounds. I 
 made a few police cars including Ford Crown Victoria 2006 with new sounds. Just make sure to backup 
 the game before editing anything. 
  
  Overall it's a good game to play. I never play the single player missions. I love the free roaming. 
 I also play this game on multiplayer (online) with tons of players online, it never gets old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleDuck
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  I would like to clear one thing up here. I've had this game for yonks, but I wasn't too fused about 
 writing a review for 2 reasons, 1 laziness and 2 age. Now puberty and time have kicked in and I've 
 succesfully grown half an inch, I can now review the the game in full suave. Yay for me.
  
  San andreas is a typical gta game, be gangster, shoot guy, do stuff. Try not to get shot or arested 
 along the way. But with san andreas, you are now a black american, which not only instantly makes 
 you 100% cooler, but also means the main character speaks fluent street, or for all i care, a basterised 
 version of japanese, chinese, double dutch and some latin. As a result, half the missions you go 
 on are only fully explained to you when you read the perfect English subtitles, but quite frankly, 
 I could've put this game in French and understood more.
  
  The great thing about this game is that is a completely free game. I can go into a street, shoot 
 a guy, steal a car and get a prostitute in the back before I can say woopdedoo. But the prostitue 
 is neither realistic nor intersting to do, so for me is quite frankly a down marker.
  
  The games control system, although good, seems to have no idea what planet it's on, console or 
 pc. I can't stick a steering wheal on the pc to drive cars without having to go all the way through 
 options to change the control type and shoot people in a different way. This is not only annoying 
 but it also means I can't play the game as I would want to. Don't get me wrong, it is good if you 
 don't have this retarded set up. It's right click to aim and left click to fire, and the speed 
 at which you get better with the gun is quite nice. Something the old gta games thought stupid 
 to have really and rightly so.
  
  All in all this is a good game. The only real criticism I have is how unrealistic it is. Let me 
 explain. I can shoot a guy to bloody death and the police will be stumped as to who exactly did 
 it. If they see me do it, I can run away for a period of time and if I'm seen again they will pretty 
 much have sex with me if I ask them nicely. I would love a game which has a bit more of a technical 
 and chemical challenge ta. All in all pretty good and simple point shoot kill action but nout too 
 different from previous gta games, save for length. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saurabhmisra87
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2007 6:51 am PT
Review:  I am sorry but i just can't avoid NOT being a critic for this game. Read on and you'll find out 
 the reason.
  
  GTA San Andreas is by far the finest in the GTA series without a doubt.
  Rockstar have been known for creating beauties but this one is really off the charts.
  
  GAMEPLAY:-
 
  
  San Andreas:- San Andreas is a big city with a capital b. It's huge. There are several smaller 
 areas within like LOS SANTOS, etc. There are deserts and snow clad areas to mountainous ones, you'll 
 find almost any normal geographical location here. While not doing anything, you can just grab 
 a bike or car and explore your way through the city.
  
  Our Character:- We play the character of a wannabe gang member named CARL JOHNSON . If you ask 
 me the thing that sparked me the most was his so true to life behavior. His language is filled 
 with cuss words and pure slang and is amusing to listen to. It shows that the designers have really 
 put a lot of work in the character design. It is a change from the previous versions of GTA like 
 LIBERTY CITY in which our character is a total mute &amp; VICE CITY where Tommy isn't a very communication 
 oriented person.
  
  Other Characters: The rest of the characters like RYDER, BIG SMOKE, SWEET, O. G LOC also posses 
 their own unique character &amp; introduce a lot of humour.
  
  Exciting New Features:- There are lots of things that you can do with your character which might 
 not have been possible in previous versions. Some of them are as follows:-
  1) Wear clothes of your choice by buying them.
  2) Style your hair
  3) Get yourself tattooed
 
  4) Go to a restaurant or burger joint and get your tummy filled up ( eat too much &amp; CARL will 
 puke)
  5) Go to a bar and get some liquor.
  6) Take your girlfriend to a date 7) Make out with her if you have 'HOT COFFEE MOD' installed.
 
  8) Go to a gym and become a HUNK.
  9) Go to a martial arts training institute and learn some fighting skills. . . And the list goes 
 on...
  
  These activities give a kinda feeling that you are living a parallel life. All these even affect 
 your character's life in different ways as follows.
  1) You'll have to feed your character in order for him to stay alive.
  2) If you look good, your 
 'sex appeal' will increase and girls will be attracted towards CARL.
  3) Your behaviour will influence the amount of trust your gang dudes have upon you.
  4) If you 
 don't keep you girlfriend happy or don't take her on a date frequently, she'll break up with you. 
 And so on . . .
  
  
  The Vehicles:- There are a wide range of vehicles you can drive. Besides cars, there are low riders, 
 sport bikes, harley davidson look alikes, dirt bikes, pizza delivery bikes, hoverboats, helicopters, 
 trucks, buses, stunt planes, jet planes, military jet fighter planes, passenger planes, military 
 helicopters, remote controlled cars and planes (which you can sit and ride in multiplayer mode) 
 and the best of all 'The Rocket Back pack' which you can use to fly around and feel the breeze. 
 There is a parachute available, so you can fly to a desired height and sky dive at will. The Missions: 
 The missions form the heart and soul of any GTA game. This applies here too. It is applaudable 
 how ROCKSTAR came up with so many different and interesting to play missions which are in a beautiful 
 synchronization with the story. You never get bored playing them. The best thing is that the missions 
 will force you to control every vehicle that there is. Some of the plane missions were so cool 
 that you can't miss playing them. Controlling the military helicopters and jets and causing destruction 
 never cease to satisfy you. In the initial missions, we help our HOMIES clear up some gang **** 
 We don't get paid for this. Instead our respect increases. This really depicts our bondage with 
 the gang and adds a lot of realism. The missions will take you through all the various locations 
 of SA. Sometimes you'll have to travel cross-city for some of the missions which really felt great.
 
  
  The game has been in controversy regarding some content enabled through the Hot Coffee Mod, but 
 irrespective of the presence of this feature, the game is still scoring and a hit. GRAPHICS:- The 
 graphics of the game are not too sharp especially the character physique detail. But considering 
 the amount of area that the game designers had to display, i think, it's a tolerable trade-off. 
 The full map is loaded as a whole and not part-by-part. There are no loading sessions in between 
 the city areas giving a whole new meaning to the term 'FREE ROAM'. The balance between the graphics 
 and the gameplay has been maintained such that the game will run properly even at LOW-CONFIG PCs. 
 The characters do look disproportional at times but trust me, the gameplay will enthrall you to 
 an extent that these things will get masked eventually. AUDIO:- The audio of the game is great. 
 There are some wonderful Hip-Hop tracks that you can listen to on the radio. The SFX of the guns, 
 cars, planes, helicopters, etc. are accurately implemented.
  But the best feature is the character speeches. Oh man! They are so perfectly enacted, that you 
 almost get lost in the cut-scenes. The speech style and content are magnificently reproduced.
 
  
  STORY:- The story is very engaging and really maintains the game flow. The biggest difference is 
 that CARL's life is not all about money but about family and friends. You'll have work for your 
 gang and gain their trust and respect. The story includes lots of twists and turns and best of 
 all , IT INVOLVES CHARACTERS FROM LIBERTY CITY AND VICE CITY. There is a mission where CARL flies 
 to liberty city and goes to Marco's Bistro. ANOTHER ROCKSTAR HIT. IS IT WORTH PLAYING? HELL YEAHHHHHHH. 
 IT'S NOT WORTH MISSING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delro333
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 22, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Well GTA is the long controversial game with is content of violence sex etc. GAMEPLAY:
  WEll can you say boring, easy lock on aim? just hit a button and hold x and you'll see poorly animated 
 bad guys fall to the ground with awful blood and gore, poorly done. Flying is another thing extremly 
 bland and slow. Now i know most people are like oh boy look at this new huge place to run around 
 in and mess things up!! no children your quite wrong the gameplay is so repetitive just play it 
 over and over again after a week you'll find yourself saying oh what game to i buy next since this 
 one doesnt interest me?
  
  GRAPHICS absoulute crap so blocky and simple its like megaman only worse. You can see chucks of 
 pixels everywhere. the only thing nice is the car effects and how they crunch up after you ram 
 something.
  
  OTHER:
  Well GTA is just getting old and overrated im not going to lie when the new one comes out ill probably 
 play it, only to find that after a while it gets extremly old and dull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Citnarf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  I first finished the game on the PS2 and loved it.. and now I'm going through it again on the PC.. 
 and having just as much fun as i did the first time through!
  
  Game play: The game play in GTA: SA is basically as good as it gets... you can do whatever you want 
 whenever you want and you only have to progress through the story at your own pace. You can steal 
 cars from anyone who is driving around etc. The driving physics are also insanely fun and are done 
 perfectly for a game like this.
  
  Story: The game has a great story and it makes you want to see what happens next all the time.
 
  
  Sound: On the PC i have had a few sound problems.. but they always seem to be fixable by alt tabbing 
 in and out of the game. This isn't really a problem though because the sound problems are very 
 rare.
  
  Graphics: The graphics for this game are great considering how HUGE it is!! The car models look 
 really nice too.
  
  Overall: If you like action games and feel like doing whatever whenever then buy this game!! its 
 awesome!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeythemachine
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2007 10:42 am PT
Review:  This is such a great game. It's full of everything that makes a game great, complete and replayable. 
 I recently purchased the PC version of this game at discount, recalling how addicting to it I had 
 become after its initial release. Then, I was playing it on my brother's PS2, but this time, PC. 
 Honestly, what can you say about this game? For me, if someone came up to me and asked what I was 
 looking for in a game, then asked 5 million other people, and instead of paying any attention to 
 genre or the details of content everyone threw at them and simply worked to meet the gameplay expectations 
 and standards at their peak and not their average, this would be the game. This is the game. Full, 
 rich environments. Every NPC type has a flavor and a feel. The game is packed to the full extent 
 of 2005 technology with content and choices and at the same time has great and engaging, funfilled, 
 funny, fun-loving antics aplenty for pleasure abound, and sex and guns and cursewords where cursewords 
 would be, and humor at every corner. Actually, to be true, I'm selling it short. If you haven't 
 played this game, get it together and do so. There's nothing this large that comes close.
  
  Some nifty PC features too, like the USER PLAYLIST radio station. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teet-O
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Everything, from the story, intuitive game play, and unforgettable cast of characters, Grand theft 
 Auto San Andreas surely brings everything you could ever want in a GTA game. Without this game, 
 I would never have liked GTA as much as I do now. Storyline is basically perfect, never a dull 
 moment, not even when you play through it again and again. The Characters are great! They pull 
 you into the storyline with great voice acting and personalities. The game play is probably the 
 funnest part of GTA SA. Since the GTA SA world is HUGE, theres never a dull moment going out and 
 performing rampages throughout the state of San Andreas. Airplanes also make great additions to 
 the game. Its basically just perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  IT'S A TESTAMENT TO THE BRILLIANCE of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas that, even after two years 
 and a ton of new features, getting back into the series' latest installment is as easy as riding 
 a bike. Literally. The game's opening sequence has you pedaling a BMX away from rival gangbangers, 
 and even though riding a bike might not sound that exciting, Rockstar manages to make it fun -- 
 just like the next 40+ hours of this amazing epic. Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is arguably the 
 best in the series - which is saying a lot -- and while we can't help wishing the PC port could 
 have been shown just a little bit more love, it's the best PC game we've played this year.
  
  West Side Story
  
  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas takes the series back to the early 90's, 
 set in the fictional California-ish state of (what else?) San Andreas. You play Carl CJ Johnson, 
 who's just spent five years on the east coast and has returned home after the death of his mother. 
 Upon arriving, CJ is picked up by some crooked cops, and it's not long before CJ finds himself 
 back in the middle of the gang wars.
  
  Stretching across three main cities, the world of San Andreas is positively massive, even more 
 so than GTA III and Vice City, filled with cars to jack and people to interact with. The first 
 city is Los Santos, which is your 'hood  and every stereotype of Los Angeles life and west coast 
 rap rolled into a videogame, from your homies on Grove Street to the ritzy Mulholland hills. Inevitably, 
 CJ is forced to explore new locations, and the plot moves beyond mere gang wars and spirals into 
 a more unique and goofy crime saga. CJ soon sets up shop in San Fierro, a thinly veiled caricature 
 of San Francisco, complete with hilly streets, rainbow flags and its own version of the Golden 
 Gate Bridge. Beyond that lays the Vegas-inspired city of Las Venturas, with casinos like the Starfish, 
 Caligula's Palace and (my favorite) Pirates in Men's Pants. 
  
  Las Venturas is San Andreas' version of Las Vegas.
  
  Like the other GTA games, you can take 
 on missions that propel the story forward, or you can just explore and see what kind of trouble 
 you can get into. Almost all the missions boil down to some combination of driving, shooting and/or 
 collecting, but even after the nearly hundred (!) missions that make up the core story, they stay 
 unique and interesting. Maybe it's a simple drive-by, or a bank robbery, or an assassination mission. 
 Maybe you need to snipe ten gang members on a rooftop, kill their leader, and chase the final gang 
 member down by boat. Or maybe you need to steal a motorcycle, chase down a helicopter along the 
 freeway, and shoot it down with a missile launcher while being chased by an entire police department. 
 The missions only get more over-the-top as you go, and yet the difficulty stays pretty manageable 
 throughout.
  
  What makes the GTA formula so special, however -- and is ever-present in San Andreas -- is freedom 
 to experiment and come up with creative ways to beat missions. In one scenario, you need to chase 
 down a pimp named **** (played by Charlie Murphy) , but he's got a pretty tough pimpmobile. Easy 
 solution: before flushing him out of his nightclub, shoot the tires out on his car. What could 
 have been a long chase scene becomes a getaway instantly foiled. You'll often need to do a mission 
 once or twice to figure all this out, but it rarely feels like a chore, and these a-ha! moments 
 only make it all the more rewarding.
  On one level, San Andreas feels very familiar to the previous two installments in the series, but 
 there are also plenty of new additions to keep it from feeling like a retread. A mini-RPG system 
 allows you to see how far your skills have progressed in categories like driving, stamina, respect 
 and various weapons, and while you'll build these stats up over the course of normal gameplay, 
 you can also hit driving schools, shooting ranges or gyms to speed things up. There are tons of 
 options to customize CJ's wardrobe, ink yourself up with tattoos, get new haircuts and buy bling 
 to pimp yourself out. You can romance girlfriends in your free time in the hopes of getting invited 
 in for coffee, and turf wars allow you to take over areas of Los Santos with fellow gang members 
 a few blocks at a time. Best of all, while all of these additions add depth to the basic formula, 
 they're almost completely optional -- they only add to the fun, and don't get in the way of it.
 
  
  Rockstar also deserves credit for once again building a world that's just interesting. San Andreas 
 is a warped parody in itself, from Gap-inspired Zip clothing stores to Cluckin' Bell chicken shacks 
 and a ton of similar spoofs. Some parts of the story are so off-the-wall bonkers that you can't 
 help but laugh, and yet you'll still want to see how it all turns out, with some good surprises 
 even as you reach the game's final missions. (There are a number of major ties to Liberty City 
 and Vice City that fans of the series will particularly enjoy.) Like Grand Theft Auto III and Vice 
 City, the world of San Andreas is one laced with violence and profanity, and it isn't a game any 
 10-year-old should be playing, but that doesn't make the experience any less compelling for adults.
 
  
  Cause too much of a commotion, and expect the police to show up unhappy.
  
  A huge cast is on hand to bring the characters to life, starting with relative unknown rapper Young 
 Maylay doing a fantastic job as CJ. Samuel L. Jackson and Chris Penn play crooked cops Tenpenny 
 and Pulaski, Peter Fonda provides some memorable moments as a way-out hippie named The Truth, and 
 James Woods is the unforgettable Mike Toreno, a government agent of sorts that CJ gets mixed up 
 with. (Be sure to do every mission you can find for Toreno as soon as you can.) The amazing soundtrack, 
 with 8 different radio stations and over 100 songs, covers the best of the early 90's, including 
 Snoop Dogg, Ice Cube, Boyz II Men, En Vogue, Soundgarden and Rage Against the Machine, and provides 
 perfect backdrop to the action. In short, the presentation is top-notch on every level.
  
  Well, almost every level. It's frustrating that, even after all the success of the GTA games, San 
 Andreas still looks a generation or two behind in the graphics department. Even with support for 
 higher resolutions and antialiasing, San Andreas only looks worse depending on how good your hardware 
 is: once you've gotten used to playing Half-Life 2, DOOM 3 and even World of Warcraft at 1920x1200, 
 it can be jarring to see an abundance of stretched textures and blocky geometry that permeates 
 the world. The Mulholland mansion of rapper Madd Dogg, for example, which becomes a central location 
 in the game, is an embarrassingly outdated bit of level design, like a practice level someone built 
 for Half-Life five years ago. It's clear that some textures were upgraded for the PC version, and 
 we'll happily take the tradeoff of San Andreas' superior gameplay at the expense of some eye candy, 
 but our question is: why can't we have both? Hopefully the incoming wave of next-gen consoles will 
 give the GTA series the graphical upgrade it so sorely needs.
  Sadly, the PC port of San Andreas isn't without a few technical issues. On the plus side, the game 
 never crashed over 50+ hours of testing on two separate machines, and load times were just a few 
 seconds -- a vast improvement over the PS2 version. On the minus side, several special effects, 
 like fire, smoke and fog, caused major slowdowns, even on high-end machines. This made several 
 missions much harder than they should have been, including -- in a truly unfortunate turn -- the 
 game's epic final mission. The slowdowns were bad enough that I took on the optional fire truck 
 missions to get CJ the fireproof bonus, just so I didn't have to worry about it any more. We also 
 had some issues with rain effects looking generally poor as well as producing a strange crackling 
 on both our test machines.
  
  And yet, despite these drawbacks, I can't imagine myself playing San Andreas on a console. It's 
 a lot easier to take in the world using the mouse to look up and down, and combat while on foot 
 is surprisingly satisfying, using the right mouse button to bring up a targeting crosshair in place 
 of the PS2's lock-on format. (Sniping with the mouse is practically unfair.) Car/motorcycle control 
 handles like Unreal Tournament 2004 -- you use the W/A/S/D keys to steer, and the mouse to swivel 
 the camera -- and there's also gamepad support if you really want it for the flying missions. If 
 you find that the soundtrack isn't enough, you can copy your own MP3s into a folder to create an 
 extra radio station. San Andreas is also a game that lends itself to saving regularly, and it's 
 a lot easier to archive 100 missions' worth of save files on the PC than juggling memory cards.
 
  
  One mission has you nabbing an armored car with the help of a heli transport.
  
  Finally, it's worth noting that the Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas comes in some of the slickest 
 packaging we've seen for a PC game in a while. The box is actually a full-color hardcover manual 
 about the size of a DVD case, with a slipcover, a single game DVD inside the back cover, and a 
 full-size poster with a map of San Andreas on it. It's better than what passes for some collector's 
 editions these days, and it's something we'd love to see more developers and publishers adopt in 
 the future.
  
  The Final Word
  
  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, from almost every angle, is an amazing game. Like its predecessors, 
 it presents a gigantic world that you're free to explore, with a great story, and a never-ending 
 supply of missions buried in every corner. New features provide just enough extra depth to keep 
 things interesting and yet keep the winning formula intact. The PC version suffers from a few technical 
 glitches and generally looks a little dated compared to other PC titles, but still feels like an 
 improvement over the PS2 version, and is filled with weeks of gameplay and unforgettable moments. 
 It's not to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aussieboy911
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 12:55 am PT
Review:  i bought gta 3 on pc but didnt bother with vice city. why? not because it wasnt a good game as 
 im sure it is, but it wasnt that different from gta 3. but san andreas is such a step up for the 
 series its incredible they can even fit it all on the one disk.
  
  first of all, you can fly- the training levels are **** but flying and parachuting whereever you 
 want is fantastic.
  
  next up is the real size of san andreas, the made up state whose name is ripped from the fault 
 line which causes so many earthquakes over in US. all of the cities are completely different and 
 have different cultures in themselves:
  
  Los Santos: the hood, your home, but also home to drugs and ballas
  
  San Fierro: mountainous 
 business city based on San Francisco (i think) .
  
  Las Venturas: VIVA LAS VEGAS!!!!! las venturas really is las vegas- a oasis of bright lights and 
 casinos in the middle of the desert.
  
  all of these cities are completely different and you will enjoy all of them.
  
  the weapons 
 are supurb and all play fantastic- nine mm, m4s, micro smgs they all work well but are let down 
 by the controls.
  
  gta was always meant to be on ps2, thats just how it is. even xbox doesnt work quite as well as 
 it on ps2. the reason- C. O. N. T. R. O. L. S. sure with a mouse you can pop off head shots really easy 
 but it suffers when you are swamped with enemy gangs. with the lock on system, you can easily just...... 
 well there is no other way to say it: bang bang bang... your way out of there- especially with 
 smgs and ak/m4s. but with a mouse you will be constantly turning around looking for who is shooting 
 at you (who incidentaly has you locked on) . this problem is even worse when driving. driving is 
 a complete and utter BITCH with a mouse. unlike the normal gta camera, which automatically changes 
 directions to suit the direction you are driving- you have to do it yourself which is harder than 
 it sounds on paper- or web browser. you are constantly looking around you because of how sensitive 
 the mouse is and then you have to remember to swerve out of the way of oncoming traffic! other 
 than shooting and driving- the two basic fundamentals of gta gameplay (DOH!) there is NOTHING wrong 
 with the mouse style of play.
  
  as soon as you begin playing SWITCH TO JOYPAD SETTINGS. even if you dont own a joypad/stick. its 
 just classic gta gameplay, as it was always meant to be.
  
  my only other gripe is the problem i have with my graphics card- a 6600 btw is that occasionally, 
 well not occasionally but a teensy bit more than rarely ALL SOUND EXCEPT THE RADIO WILL CUT OUT!!!!!!!!!! 
 it is extremely frustrating but according to the gamespot review it is a problem with some high 
 end video cards... anyway you might not have that problem.
  
  apart from that, the technical side san andreas is fantastic. graphics are way up on the ps2 version 
 due to pcs being able to use much higher resolutions which affect how crisp everything is. just 
 dont turn up the res too high because even my high end video card got the **** with me and clunked 
 around when i went to the max res gta offers.
  
  all in all, you need to buy this game! i picked it up for AUS$30 which is fairly cheap but i havent 
 often spent a better $30 than this!
  
  one little hint: if you are stuck on a level that just infuriates you beyond reason (there are 
 a few) you might be able to just leave it. an example of this is zero's second mission oooooooh.... 
 i could just punch his face in so bad......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herzalot
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 4:07 am PT
Review:  gta san andreas is a good game. you can have a good time with it. but dont trust the story and graphic. the 
 story is about a jim crow named carl jhonson. carl lost his mother because of some punk gang members 
 and he is going to get a revange. the story is bad and it is bad untill the game ends. graphic is 
 also not good. the sound effects are rehash. but the thing that make san andreas very worthy is gameplay. you 
 can do all you want:
  killing. buying. playing arcade games. playing sports like basketball, billiard...
  driving. gamble. working 
 and ..........
  the game is hard of course and you die many times but gameplay is full and have no defect.
  but 
 voice overs are good and have dark scoffs that make you laugh.
  also buy this game for some fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giro786
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 10:34 pm PT
Review:  this was a very good game to continue living in the GTA world ; when you can steal any car you 
 want claim it under your name ; just drive it and that is it missions gave you point ; but in addition 
 , you can buy houses ; you can buy clubs ; you can do many things in the game what i liked the 
 most in this game was its length ; it is not like the other game where you can play like 10 hours 
 and the game finishes
  
  i played this game for about a month maybe ; but u hadn't too much fun at the end of the game
 
  
  while the last mission was about to be completed , and i was about to see the last video in the 
 game , the game crashed ; leaving me very stressed ; i uninstalled the game directly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noneofthese2006
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 12:52 am PT
Review:  The first thing GTA San Andreas amazes you with is the impressive size of the universe where Carl 
 Johnson aka CJ will have to struggle with the perils of a gangsters life. If you thought that 
 GTA San Andreas will be just a sequel to GTA III or to Vice City, after the first moments spent 
 in the game, you will think the previous titles were more like beta versions compared to Rockstar 
 is offering now. Each of the cities that make the GTA San Andreas universe: Los Santos, Las Ventura 
 and San Fierro are larger than the famous Liberty City and this is just one of the concepts employed 
 by Rockstar to make San Andreas a better game than its predecessors. Obviously, the larger the 
 universe the more missions and challenges you will have. Moreover, if you thought GTA Vice City 
 had a wide variety of vehicles, know that in GTA San Andreas you will be able to take even bicycles, 
 or any others means of transportation which will ensure you the supremacy of the city. Given the 
 huge of the city, you will always find things to do, making GTA San Andreas a game you will be 
 able to play for days. The biggest novelty is that CJ has learned to swim and this gives the game 
 a whole new perspective. Another important thing to notice is that unlike previous titles from 
 the GTA franchise, in GTA San Andreas your objectives are much more detailed, which greatly simplifies 
 missions. But this doesnt mean GTA San Andreas is an easy game and as things evolve, the missions 
 will become more and more difficult. Some of them will be similar to the ones from previous titles 
 and youll even encounter familiar characters.
  
  Whether youre a GTA fan or not, GTA San Andreas is a game you cannot afford to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Free roam action, killing random people, pimping, driving, racing and amazing missions and 
 story make this games gameplay fun for hours upon hours. There is so much to do in the Enormous 
 world.
  
  Graphics: Not Great but not horrible either. Top-notch for 2005. Detailed environments and main 
 characters are a nice touch. Cars are detailed with amazing damage effects.
  
  Sound: Amazing sound because of the licensed sound track. many songs and many artists make this 
 sound track a hit. ( you can buy on cd) . Sound effects are nice to. From people screaming to gunshots. 
 Voice acting is not that great.
  
  The Good: Amazing Gameplay, Amazing Sound and ok graphics
  
  The Bad: Outdated graphics for 
 2007. Still good for 2005.
  
  The Ugly: None. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maryus101_carl
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 12, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Gta San Andreas has better graphics than the other Gta's and an improved sound and gameplay. What 
 makes different this game to the other Gta's is that that you have to dress you charracter, to feed 
 him, the learn him how to fight, to learn him how to fly with planes and many other things..... In 
 Gta San Andreas you can now ride all cars and bikes you found in the city , all planes you found 
 in the airport , all boats you found in the wather ans many more. The missions are a bit too difficult 
 than other Gta's and a bit too looger. In Gta San Andreas are aproximathely 115 primary misions 
 except side mission. This is a good game of Gta Series and i hope you don't miss it !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AjayRaz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 7, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Well, I gotta say, San Andreas for the Playstation 2 was a freakin masterpiece. I loved every bit 
 of it. Too bad my Ps2's broken, I thought about checking out San Andreas for the pc, and I gotta 
 admit, It's easier, it looks better, the control is better, it's basically way better than the 
 console versions.
  
  Sound: Sound is fantastic, The voice acting is great and the ability for custom tracks is a wicked 
 addition. A couple sounds were pretty crappy but all n all, the sound is great. 9/10
  
  Graphics: Graphics aren't the best, but they're impressive due to all the content in the game. 
 Lighting is well done and the character models looks good. Some animations are a little clunky 
 and weird looking but that's not a problem. 9/10
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay..... Amazing. After 10 years the gameplay is still strong and fun. The story 
 is full of suprises and it'll keep ya thinking. A Customisable character (You can change clothes, 
 work out, get tattoos, Get a new haircut, etc.) . There's load of extra content (Like dating your 
 girlfriend, Trucking missions, Break into people's houses and steal stuff, be a taxi driver and 
 earn some cash, and way more) . Free roaming has never been so fun. 10/10
  
  Value: Worth alot, I'm glad I bought the PC version, I'll never sell it nor give it away. All the 
 content in the game should last you a good while. 10/10
  
  The game's replay value is already so much, but with the Multiplayer Mod, San Andreas Multiplayer 
 (Formaly SA-MP) Adds another year or more to your addiction to this game, If you're a fan of Sandbox 
 type games, or just need a new game to play that'll last a long time, Grand theft auto: San andreas 
 is a must-buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 7, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Story: You are Carl Johnson. Some gang members have killed your mother and you with the help of 
 your brother will bring your hood's gang back on top and revenge your mother's death.
  
  Graphics: Not known for visuals but looks fine.
  
  Audio: Funny radio, dialogue, classic GTA
 
  
  Missions: The wide gamut, GTA missions are the best.
  
  Controls: Nothing special, remap if you want.
  
  Features: It's GTA. One of the greatest yet.
 
  
  A. I.: If you've played GTA before, nothing has changed.
  
  Loading Times: Average, only loads when you go inside places.
  
  Multiplayer: None with box, 
 but a blast if you play with the mod and with friends.
  
  Requirements: Average. Weapons: AKs, Mac10s, pistols, etc.
  
  The Good: One of the best GTAs 
 yet.
  
  The Bad: Some glitches and missions can get frustrating.
  
  The Ugly: Sometimes you go so fast that the game doesn't load enough city....
  
  Replay Ability: 
 Medium to High. The Bottom Line: If you haven't played San Andreas you must play this if you only 
 play one GTA this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medic4hire
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 6, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto, I great series indeed. San Andreas is now on the $10 bin, and well worth picking 
 up if you have not done so yet. I think that what it is missing is the overall empire building 
 that previous games have done. While there is a distinct storyline to San Andreas, I believe that 
 it faltered in achieving the grand scheme of becoming the number one kingpin of the state. If you 
 have not played it, go ahead and do it now. Otherwise go ahead and wait for GTA IV and reap the 
 benefits of an improved graphics system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilshorn
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 29, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  This game is one of my favorites and I know it's other people's favorites. Although the whole theme 
 changed from GTA3 and Vice city, it seems to be the best in the series that is currently available 
 on the PC. The graphics look great at most times and this game almost never lagged on my computer 
 and my computer is pretty old so I guess this game can run on most computers now (2007) making it 
 available to people with outdated PCs up to 3~4 years. The gameplay is certainly one of the best 
 as beating up police never gets old. The missions are great although quite challenging unless you 
 use cheats, Cheating is also one way to have fun because then, a whole new set of weapons are at 
 your disposal. The cars are also fun to drive, but sometimes, they don't seem realistic like when 
 they fall off cliffs with only minor damage or when they crash into buildings and bounce off in 
 a super spin. Some cars even feel like someone put grease on the wheels. The sound is something 
 thats disappointing. The sound effects, radio, music and all the rest are actually very good, but 
 sometimes the sounds tend to become buggy and not work very well. For instance, when driving while 
 it's raining, the radio takes over EVERY sound so that the only thing you hear is the radio even 
 if a plane crashes next to you. Too bad that this only appears on the PC. There is this bug where 
 you only hear what around you and not in front like stereo audio, only it can't detect sounds directly 
 in front of you. This causes some dialogues in the game to become completely muted. The 1.01 patch 
 seems to fix it a little, but it never seems to really get fixed. Overall, it's a really good game 
 especially on the PC because you don't have loading times for everytime you go somewhere. This 
 game is also useful when people suffer from stress. The gameplay is great, the graphics are great 
 and the sound is okay. This game is recommend to anyone old enough to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renesito
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jul 28, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is pointless. There is no reason to waste time or money on it. You will not feel any 
 bit of reward after playing. The game is buggy and annoying. Most of the missions are doll and 
 not very much freedom is given for completing them. The story makes you think a 12 year old wannabe 
 gangster kid produced it. The main character is a wimp, a pushover with no purpose what so ever. 
 The music is also a big deception. Only a few songs are good and the radio talk shows are not as 
 funny as previous games. Trust me avoid this game. Your better off with Vice City or maybe GTA 
 IV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpectralDoubt
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 27, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  With so much to do and the main story! This game makes you feel as if everything you wanted to 
 do is possible. Ever felt mad and pissed? Yes, well take your anger out on ballars! This game is 
 intense and amazing. Gameplay is good. Better then good! I feel sounds were a bit glithchy and 
 graphics could have been better. Overall, this is the GTA game of the century. It is beloved by 
 fans everywhere. This is the game to get. This game is a little violent but, it is always needed 
 in these times were banging your comeputer with a fisr won't help.
  
  This game is the one to buy! Hurah for the 21st century gaming! It has been a top 10 game for so 
 long! I reccomend this game to anyone and everyone! Yessir! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wanderson_sini
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 25, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  Besides the graphics the games has nice effects and its really funny. You can play anyway you want, 
 just run away from the police, fly with airplanes, ride a bike, fight for your gang, run on road 
 pursuits. The most interesting thing that make this game betters than others, is some rpg aspects, 
 like muscle, stamina, and breath time, that improve as you use then and play the game People complain 
 about planes and other things. You don't have to use them if you don't want to (except in some 
 missions, but they are only a few) . Its a free game and you do want you want and don't do what 
 you don't want. The worst thing is the graphic. Buildings and people are still ugly (much better 
 than gta vice city) , but your character the map and the vehicles are well designed. Look on the 
 internet for a multiplayer mod, it exist and is really funny. Create your own server and rules, 
 and play like a gangster or a cop in this exciting game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BdoggRAY
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 24, 2007 8:29 am PT
Review:  the ps2 version buta little better. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoMoBaZZe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  It was one of the coolest games i have evrer played, but the Graphics was not so good, and the 
 sound was bad. It wasn't so many goog rap songs, but some good rock, The Character wasn't so cool 
 as Tommy vercetti in Vice city, but he was ok. I don't have much else to say, but i have to write 
 100 word so DON'T READ THIS: : lol lol lol lol lol lol lol lo lo l ool l o lo l o l l o l o l o 
 l o lol lol lo lol ol o lo l l o l ol ol ol o o l o l o l ol oodf fd f d df df df dfdffd f df dfg 
 g gdssggs **** fa afgafg afaf afaaf afgafaf aaffafa fa fa fa fafa fa fa af f af fa fa fa SDFGFG 
 FADSFG DFGDSF SFFSD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paduke_karatist
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 22, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  Frankly, I really Don't know where to start from. first, Grand Theft Auto has its merrits: it is a 
 marvelous console game and it was ported very good from the console (PS2) . The diffrent types of 
 missions that you reive from the characters in the game are good, entertainnig and feature some 
 very good voice acting. The only flaw that I can find in the voice acting is some of CJ's. In the 
 begining he seems to have another voice, not the gangsta one that he has in the latter aprts of 
 the game.
  The grafics, far from beeing revolutionary, are preety and well chosen, creating some good themes: the 
 gritty and poor Los Santos, the middle class San Fierro And the High-class LAs Venturas.
  GTA series have always been some games with a lot of value and this one doesn't stray from this 
 path. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 99latino
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  just buy this game on pc is good with the mods this game is awesome so much to do missions steal 
 cars kill people play fly planes drive boats drive by gang war much more so buy it i guaranteed 
 u will like it really fun game when u get the mods with a lot of cars it gets better so either 
 way mods or no mods is the best game iv played believe it i still played
  i cant wait until gta4 comes out that gonna be the best game no doubt fnngfngngfngng bngngng bgn, sgd 
 bnjhk b, mbh n nsm, bnmkbfndbm, fndbjknzvfmd 
 
  ggngnmh tmbnhmgmghmgmgmg mghmgmgmgmgh nmtgkhmgf, mg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saaoba
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 14, 2007 5:23 am PT
Review:  it's great and funny game i love this game the man is black cool !!
  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first timeyou may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, thThe 
 stealthy assassin Agent 47 returns for a fourth appearance. Splinter Cell 3
  As Sam Fisher, Third Echelon's most skilled Splinter Cell operative, you are assigned to execute 
 a hazardous series of operations to investigate and eliminate a new source of information attacks 
 originating in North Korea. At your disposal is a lethal array of tactics ranging from Combat Knife 
 techniques to experimental prototype weapons skills and more-radical hand-to-hand techniques such 
 as the Inverted Chokehold. Manhunt
  Manhunt is an audacious game that backs up its extremely violent subject matter with solid stealth 
 action gameplay. More Similar Games &raquo; Also On: PS2 | XBOX Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas (PS2)
 
  San Andreas definitely lives up to the Grand Theft Auto name. In fact, it's arguably the best 
 game in the series.
  Score: 9.6
  
  Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories (PSP)
  The Grand Theft Auto: Liberty City Stories is the PSP version of the crime action series, Grand 
 Theft Auto. Once again, you can explore the expansive, interactive world of Liberty City as you 
 unravel brand-new missions and storylines.
  Score: 8.6
  
  Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (PS2)
  Grand Theft Auto: Vice City provides just about everything 
 you'd want in a follow-up to an outstanding game.
  Score: 9.6
  See the whole Grand Theft Auto Universe &raquo; Search: home | pc | xbox 360 | ps3 | wii | ps2 
 | xbox | gc | psp | ds | gba | forums | news | downloads | videos | tech | features Write a Review 
 for Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas for PC - GameSpot
  Worldwide | About Us | Advertise on GameSpot |Terms of Use | Shop for Games | Help UK. GameSpot. com 
 | GameFAQs. com | GameRankings. com | Metacritic. com | GameFly. com Top Games: GTA: San Andreas | 
 Sims 2 | Ninja Gaiden Sigma | Overlord | Pokemon Diamond | GTA: San Andreas | Transformers Top 
 Cheats: GTA: San Andreas Cheats | Sims 2 Cheats | Elder Scrolls: Oblivion Cheats | GTA: Vice City 
 Cheats | Age of Empires 3 Cheats | NFS Underground 2 Cheats | Half-Life 2 Cheats | C&amp; C 3: Tiberium 
 Wars Cheats | Transformers Cheats | Neverwinter Nights 2 Cheats Today on CNET: Bearshare | Games 
 | Laptops | Networking | Nintendo Wii | PS3 | PSP | Xbox 360| E3 Visit other CNET Networks sites: 
 Select SiteBNETCHOWCNET. comCNET ChannelGameSpotInternational  
 About CNET Networks | Jobs | Advertise | Partnerships Copyright &copy;2007 CNET Networks, Inc. 
 All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy | Terms of Use en copy and paste it into the posting box below. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofwarfan2929
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 27, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  San Andreas For The PC Is The Greatest Shooting Game Of All Time.
  The Difficulty For The Story Is Very Easy Nothing Hard About This Game.
  I Spent Probably 100 
 Or More Hours On PC Playing This Cause Its So Good.
  It Took Me No Minutes To Learn The Controls Cause I Played The Previous GTA's, III And Vice City.
 
  The Graphics Are Ugly As Hell. I Have Never Seen Such Crappy Graphics
  The Soundtrack Is Original And Fits This Game, Definitely.
  The Value Of This Game Is Definitely 
 Worth It Cause Its Well Thought Out And Organized.
  I Think San Andreas Should Be #1 Game Of The Year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swippe
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 26, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  One of the top ten games of all time, no matter what console! A definite milestone for modern video 
 games!
  
  You can feel the story grabbing you along as if you were in a movie. That is a movie packed with 
 lots of action. Physics are incredible, the vast map is amazing and the ability to do whatever 
 you want is still one of the most innovative game concepts to this date!
  
  And they manage to cram all that into one game without loosing any of the game feeling! If you 
 consider lto play this game i suggest you start with GTA 3. The graphics aren't as good as in San 
 Andreas but it's still a hall of fame kind of game.
  
  I promise you won't regret playing this game. Enjoy!
  
  / swipe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vicarious-Odin
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 22, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  Having played GTA III and Vice City for extreme amounts of time, and enjoying them immensely, it 
 was quite strange that I never got around to playing San Andreas until the PC version was released. 
 I'm not normally one to play such a game on the PC, as in my opinion, GTA in particular, is perfect 
 for the console, and I could never quite seem to enjoy running around, performing various illegal 
 acts with the standard Keyboard + Mouse setup.
  
  Finally getting my hands on a copy of San Andreas for the PC, I decided I would purchase a cheap 
 XBOX adapter from EBay to see how it worked out.
  
  The only thing that pained me the most about playing this on the PC was the extreme lengthy process 
 I went through to configure my controls, having to run a process in the background to emulate the 
 XBOX controls perfectly. It was definitely well worth it. Now for the actual game itself.
  
  In my opinion, and not everyone would agree with me, the graphics on the PC version are top 
 notch, save for a few glitches here and there. Reason? Draw distance. I love being able to practically 
 have no draw-in at all as i'm speeding down the busy streets on the wrong side of the road. I haven't 
 noticed anything wrong with the graphics thus far, except for a few see-through walls based on 
 camera angles and such.
  
  The sound on the PC version is actually pretty good, with the latest patch. It is otherwise known 
 to be very crackly, and can become down right frustrating listening to an ambient crackle which 
 comes and goes as it pleases. I am happy enough with the sound, and the various radio stations 
 are pretty decent, especially the humorous advertisements that play. My favourite feature would 
 have to be the User Tracks. Setting up simple shortcuts to all your favourite mp3's to play in 
 game.
  
  The gameplay itself is more of the same, with a lot of new cool features thrown in. Such as the 
 fact you have to eat (you don't really have to, but it does regain your health and give you a bit 
 of a build rather than the stick you start out as) , work out (gives you upgrades so you can learn 
 extra combat moves, stamina boost, health boost etc) , go on dates, visit various convenience stores, 
 and there are a tonne of mini-games thrown in to peruse at will also.
  The only problem I have noticed with the gameplay is the occasional path finding problems that 
 arise. I have only seen a few, and they haven't ruined gameplay too much, just my health bar as 
 the cops were shooting at me, as CJ struggled to find a way into a car several meters in front 
 of him.
  
  It's a huge game. Especially if you're not just focusing on getting from beginning to end, and 
 enjoy doing other things. So consider it good value. Let your imagination and your inner crook 
 go wild in this insanely huge sand box.
  
  So all in all, if you've never played the console versions, and/or you have a decent game pad connected 
 to your computer, Dual Shock or 360 Controller in particular, it's definitely worth a look, as 
 it's practically the same.
  
  (Be gentle, my first review :P) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odeclogne
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 22, 2007 1:29 am PT
Review:  Pro's: The game is huge and there are a lot of things to do
  
  Con's: First of all there are a hell of alot bugs in this pc version. Walking trough walls isnt 
 an exception. Also the graphics are dated. There are no special physics like Oblivion. Even the 
 graphics of Vice City are better. Also a con is the extreme violence. Killing a man a on the street 
 with a knife is quite normal in SA. Also blowing up 50 people with a rocket launcher are usual 
 happenings in San. Everyone wants to stop violence but still they buy San Andreas. I hope GTA 4 
 has a better story line and not just plaine fun by killing people on the NY streets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madeirense
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 19, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  The first time i got this game, i failed to show to classes about a week... i felt so addicted 
 that i told my parents i was going to university but instead i went to a friend's house and stayed 
 there all day long playing... One of the things i loved was the plot... the story is somewhat real 
 (i guess) ... The controls are pretty easy to assimilate and to use (you will find it easy do drive 
 the cars, bikes, planes and others) , allowing the player to concentrate more on the game missions... 
 In comparison with the other GTA versions, this beated all expectacions i had...
  The landscape is also well built (if you can see a bridge far away, note that it isn't a cheap 
 skin... the bridge is actually there) . My advice to all of you gamers is: BUY THE GAME... don't 
 borrow it from a friend, don't get a illegal copy.... buy it... it's worth it... it's one of those 
 games you can play more than once, since you won't discover all that's available the first you 
 play.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdrium2
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2007 2:11 am PT
Review:  Pros : Tons of variety; superb voice acting; nice environment; surprising game; good sense of humor 
 from radio; lots of secrets/easter eggs;
  Cons : Slightly disappointing soundtrack; graphic are pretty dated; Audio problems on some computer; unstable 
 framerate;
  
  
  Gameplay - This is a strong factor, there are many many things to do in GTA San Andreas. After 
 completing the whole game, there are still things to do. Like exploring the maps, finding secrets/easter 
 eggs (Not the egg, like references from real-life/games)
  
  Graphics - Graphics are dated, but the environment and weather are amazing.. Especially the sun 
 rise in the country side and the cutscene animation, the only problem is textures.
  
  Sound - Great voice acting and sense of humor from radio station, although the soundtrack is disappointing 
 IMO. Some sound card will have problem with game audio though, example; sometimes there are no 
 sound, only the ambience and radio. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ixtykurrumi
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 12, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Its a great game it has a lot of fun its great but for example the graphics are not so good the 
 ones from the people at least they have like square hands, don't play it too much 'cause then it 
 gets boring like you found nothing else to do at the beggining it's great but when you have a time 
 playng it gets a bit boring, the other thing are the voices are not so good they dont sound as 
 if they were talking, but it is a great game and has a great story how I already said it has a 
 lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aprillaprill
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 2, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  I cant belive it. I loved Gta3 because it was so cool and it had a great story.
  Gta VC was great too, but it didnt have so good story. Anyway it was superb pecause its graphics, 
 gameplay and music. Music was better than in GTA 3. Gta SA, well, it was cool with its new features 
 and the gameplay was the best in series, but the story was so boring and radiostations (music) sucked!! 
 Characters sucked too, **** :S and the whole country was too big.
  Even graphics werent chanced :S
  ................. . . .. . .... .. . . . . .. . . . . . . .. 
 . .. . . . . .. . . ... . . .. ...: :: .. .. .... . . . . .. . (it was for 100 words) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TANGJUICE81
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 30, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome. Recommended by my girl, she then bought it for me. I played this game for 
 hours. Once you get going on this game you won't want to stop playing. I got so immersed in this 
 game from the beginning. It was a little difficult to learn the controls but afterward I got the 
 hang of it. I like how you can do what you want, pretty much when you want it and then actually 
 play the challenges whenever. It's almost like a life in a virtual word. Great game play, cool 
 driving and riding simulations. So much fun, especially when you want to escape reality!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 9
Date: May 23, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  GTA: San Andreas has pushed the bar higher for any other freeroaming games.
  
  In this game you'll be CJ in the early 1990's, after you got arrested you'll return to you're crib, 
 the Groove Street OG's, which consist of you're brother Sweet, and ''friends'' like Ryder and Big 
 Smoke. Returning in Los Santos you'll start a new spree of missions and sometimes hilarious situations 
 set with hilarious characters you'll never forget.
  
  For anyone that doesn't know, GTA: San Andreas is the biggest sandbox game ever created for now, 
 its fun and addictive, and lets you play a WHOLE state, which leaves you the question if you can't 
 do something in the game.
  
  Gameplay:
  It's a GTA game, ofcourse it will have good gameplay, you'll be giving multiple camera options 
 for CJ, or for you're car you are driving in.
  
  Shooting is no problem, if you hold the right mouse button the camera lets you peek over CJ's back 
 (GoW style) and let you do headshots easily.
  
  Only complaint I have is that I can't get out of the water sometimes, because there nearly isn't 
 enough places to climb out of the water off, which will force me to swim around alot until I find 
 a spot to get out of the water.
  
  Graphics:
  Before I start about the graphics, I'll tell you San Andreas is a big, big game, so that is impressive 
 atleast, draw distance looks incredibly, textures look fairly simple and faces don't express anything, 
 yet some talking mouths and body movement kind of make up for it, cars and bikes look incredibly, 
 they all react to lightning pools, daylight and nightlight, also are all the cars able to look 
 like flakcannon ammo.
  
  Envoriment is destructable, you can run over trashcans, fences and ofcourse: people and poles.
 
  
  Story:
  As I mentionned above, story is pretty gripping, since all the missions you'll play will be part 
 of the big story, I don't want to be a spoiler-whore, so I'll let you find it out yourself, since 
 following the missions is the storyline.
  
  AI:
  What AI? People run if you shoot a gun, or get in a car and drive away, police cops seem to like 
 to hide behind cars, and swat members seem to like dropping out of helicopters.
  
  MUSIC: All GTA games had a great rack of music, do does GTA, the radiostations are great and have 
 music for each taste, like they have Depeche Mode and indie alternative bands in it.
  
  Is it a good freeroaming game:
  It is, get it now, I'm forcing you to, you'll never regret it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raivis09
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 23, 2007 4:23 am PT
Review:  The game really is one of the best GTA's it was really cool and when playing in SA-MP and MTA it 
 was so fun and thriliing. One of the best things in the game was the User Track Player where i 
 could put my own songs in San Andreas. Though i rated the gameplay with a 10 cause this game rolls 
 over every GTA
  ever made (on the PC) . And i liked the new features which were not in the others GTA's like swimming 
 muscle building and fitnessing etc.
  But i didnt like that there werent original cars like in Need For Speed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2007 9:18 pm PT
Review:  It wasn't until 2005 that I came across the Grand Theft Auto series. Amidst all the hype for the 
 recently released San Andreas, a genuine interest in the series began growing on me, and I felt 
 compelled to give the series a try. Grand Theft Auto III was my first GTA game and needless to 
 say, it was a watershed experience for me. Words can't describe the amazement I was in, while playing 
 that amazing classic and ever since then I have considered it the best game I had ever played. 
 A couple of months later, my crave for more GTA mayhem was satisfied by GTA Vice City, a tremendously 
 well executed sequel that managed to improve in virtually every aspect of it's predecessor. And 
 while the familiarity with the gameplay kind of lessened the impact Vice City had on me, it was 
 just as memorable as GTA III. The one thing that kept lingering on my mind after playing both games 
 was, how on earth is San Andreas going to surpass all this, and of more relevance to me, is San 
 Andreas going to have as big of an impact on me as GTA III had? The answer was a resounding yes. 
 Pushing every aspect of previous games to the limit, while adding plenty of new stuff, Rockstar 
 managed to create what I now consider to be the greatest game I've ever played. GTA San Andreas 
 is a glorious action game, that offers so much to pretty much anyone, that it simply has to be 
 experienced by anyone with even a remote interest in video games (or anyone with a pulse for that 
 matter) .
  
  What makes the GTA formula so enjoyable is the freedom it gives you to set yourself loose in the 
 gameworld it's set on, allowing you to do things anyway you please, and deeply immerse yourself 
 in said gameworld. And in San Andreas, the setting is now bigger than ever. Not just a city, but 
 an entire state, San Andreas is actually composed of three very different and unique cities, Los 
 Santos, San Fierro, and Las Venturas, each roughly as large as Liberty City (the setting of GTA 
 III) or Vice City. In fact, San Andreas is roughly twice the size of both Liberty City and Vice 
 City combined. In a word, it's huge. But it's not just that San Andreas is huge, it's that it's 
 littered with hundreds of things to do, all of them very enjoyable and a great contribution to 
 making the world feel very alive. It's safe to say you could live in San Andreas while you're playing 
 the game, since this gameworld is more lifelike than anything that has ever been previously made 
 in a video game.
  
  The meat of the game lies in the main story missions, which will take you from the hoods of Los 
 Santos, across the streets of San Fierro, all the way to the blitz of Las Venturas. The main story 
 in San Andreas is by far the best one in all the GTA games, as it's packed with plenty of surprises, 
 several clever ties to previous GTA games, as well as a plethora of humor. The missions themselves 
 are a lot more complex than in previous games, and by the time you reach the latter portions of 
 the game, you'll come across some truly crazy missions, all of them memorable and all of them fun.
 
  
  Of course, you're free to also cause mayhem at your own will (though you need to advance in the 
 main story to unlock restricted areas) , which thanks to the much more aggressive police of San 
 Andreas, will eventually lead to some astonishingly crazy chases all across the state. Another 
 thing that contributes to making the mayhem more enjoyable is that the weapon damage is now much 
 more realistic, meaning that even your basic pistol is capable of gunning down cops (or pedestrians) 
 in one shot, provided you aim for the head. Considering how aggressive the cops are, and how many 
 you will meet as you're being chases, this improvement is a life saver.
  
  And aside from creating general mayhem, you always have the option to go for the side missions 
 available. All the trademark side missions from previous games are here (Vigilante, Firetruck, 
 Taxi, Ambulance, etc.) , and you now have the option to compete in highly competitive street races, 
 you can play pool games for money at the local bar, you can play a basketball minigame, you can 
 play arcade games at the bars or at a minimarket, you can visit the casinos in Las Venturas and 
 gamble your money in the kind of activities you'd find at any real life casino, you can date girlfriends 
 hoping they'll invite you for coffee eventually, you can deliver cargo across the entire state 
 (with the cops on your tail) , and the list goes on and on. There are even schools that will help 
 you enhance your driving, flight and bike skills (a new element of the game are the stats that 
 track your progress and other skills) . The beauty of the side missions is how they connect to the 
 gameworld, making it feel much more alive.
  
  While San Andreas is a perfect example of why enjoyable gameplay is all you need to create a memorable 
 game, it also offers a nice visual treat. That's right, I've said it before and I'll say it again, 
 the GTA games all look great (you can check out my profile for a blog post I did on this subject) . 
 It's not about the technology, since they're all lacking in that department, but it's about the 
 art direction behind them. San Andreas, just like it's predecessors, is packed with detail, from 
 the street signs, to the different neighborhoods, to the crazy pedestrians, to the vehicles, to 
 the countryside, and everything in between. San Andreas succeeds at creating a visually immersive 
 world, and that's what makes it look great. Of course, that's not to say there aren't some flaws, 
 because there are. Character models look too blocky (this is especially true for the girlfriend 
 models) , which can make some of the cutscenes a bit awkward. The textures also look bland, which 
 is due to the relatively primitive technology the game is based on. In the end, none of this really 
 matters, since the game makes up for this deficiencies by adding a somewhat cartoony style to visuals 
 that fits the game perfectly. The graphics in San Andreas are great due to it's style and visual 
 art direction, not due to it's technology.
  
  The sound of the game is quite frankly amazing. While the guns can sound somewhat awkward at times 
 (especially the uzis and the pistol) , everything else sounds great, be it the vehicle sounds, the 
 ambient sounds, or the pedestrian dialogue. Speaking of dialogue, the voice acting in San Andreas 
 is nothing short of amazing. With plenty of recognizable talent as well as some new voices, the 
 voice acting adds another element of greatness to the main story, since it makes all the cutscenes 
 so much more enjoyable, as well as making the characters much more memorable (Mike Toreno, Catalina 
 and Officer Tenpenny were the most memorable for me) . And on top of the voice acting is the great 
 soundtrack of the game, which once again is composed by the different radio stations you can listen 
 as you cruise around the city. There's a lot more variety this time, but each radio station fits 
 the gameworld properly. Radio Los Santos is fitting for cruising around the hoods while gangbanging 
 your rivals, SFUR fits the alternative lifestyle of San Fierro, K-Rose is surprisingly enjoyable 
 as you cruise around the country side, and stations like Radio X and K-DST are pleasant to listen 
 wherever you are. The DJs are also great, especially Sage (who is a depressively twisted chick) 
 and Tommy The Nightmare Smith (voiced by Axl Rose) . All in all, the sounds of San Andreas are simply 
 awesome.
  
  The deeper you get into this game, the more you realize that masterpieces like this are something 
 to truly behold. With over a 100 hours spent into this game, I can safely say that I've never been 
 more immersed in a gameworld the way I was in San Andreas. Rockstar Games deserves a lot of praise 
 for the way they successfully improve upon their previous achievements (and considering how good 
 GTA III and Vice City were, that's no small feat) . Can Rockstar do it again with GTA IV? We'll 
 have to wait and see, but as far as San Andreas goes, it eclipses everything done by both GTA III 
 and Vice City, and it isn't just the best GTA game, it's one of the best games ever made, period. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taraboi1
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  Unlike other games, here you can free roam through the city, kill people randomly and play with 
 the cops, plus if you have the cheats for this game you can do much more so i think it's a really 
 interesting and addictive game. If you played the other GTA titles and liked 'em then San Andreas 
 is a must-have for your video game collection dispite the not too good graphics for a game released 
 in 2004 and its very little sound glitches. This makes San Andreas a very good game with few glitches (nothing 
 is perfect) and very good voice acting by the way, almost forgot about that :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DendromutantX
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 16, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  While I like this game for what it is, it feels a lot different from the original GTA games. In 
 GTA 1 and 2 you were a loner, working for criminal organizations, choosing factions; and it focused 
 almost enitirely on what gave the game its title: grand theft auto. San-Andreas deviates from this 
 path, giving more attention to character development, combat and even dating for some reason. It 
 also doesn't have that mafia feel to it, which takes away from the atmosphere. It does have a unique 
 atmosphere of it's own (that of a 1990's ghetto) , and it's rather well presented, but as I said, 
 that is very different from the original GTA. Controls are generally responsive, the only frustration 
 I have had, was with aiming an AA gun or a sniper rifle.
  
  The radio in the game was amazing, sometimes I didn't want to get out of car, because I wanted 
 to finish listening to a particular song or a talk show.
  
  The story is interesting, but it just feels like two different games after you finish the green 
 sabre mission.
  
  All in all, this game will provide forty to sixty hours of good entertainment, and that's what 
 really matters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_sageX
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 16, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  GTA San Andreas is no doubt a great game that will attract a lot of audience. The presentation 
 is overwhelming and the content is huge, almost making this a gamers dream game.
  
  Story: Carl Johnson has returned from his break in Liberty City. Before he left, Los Santos was 
 a complete chaotic neighborhood and after all these years the problem got worse. The Grove Street 
 and Ballas were having many gangster wars and as it seems the Ballas are in the verge of winning. 
 After learning of the many police corruption, increase in drug sales and the death of his mother 
 and brother Carl decided to stay in Los Santos and clear the streets from the Ballas once and for 
 all.
  
  Game design: There are 3 major cities and many other small towns around San Andreas. Not only are 
 the worlds huge but the number of CPUs that you can even interact with is enormous. There are many 
 side quests and mini games you will find in this game so you will expect to have a lot of content 
 to enjoy. The graphics is below PC standards but considering the huge and massive size of the game 
 it is understandable. The game also surprisingly runs really fast on PC even in minimum requirements, 
 even loading time takes 3 to 5 seconds.
  
  Game Play: You will be playing as Carl Johnson (CJ) and will be exploring the massive world of 
 San Andreas and will be participating in a lot of missions. There are many side quests for you 
 to enjoy, from playing Pool to Black Jack in Casinos. There are various weapons you could get from 
 AK 47s to samurai swords.
  Carls health is also affected depending on your actions, if you eat too much you will gain weight 
 and you can get rid of fat by going to Gyms and doing varies exercises such as Boxing or Martial 
 arts. You can ride various vehicles from cars to boats. There are so many things you can do, that 
 this game would basically be your second life.
  
  Sound: There are a lot of good soundtracks put in the game and in the PC version you can add your 
 own music to listen to on your own customized radio channel. You will hear a lot of voice acting; 
 the CPU will even interact within each other.
  
  You could imagine how many casts it would take to make such an incredible game. So many interactions, 
 so many contents, the world map is so huge you wont be able to even cross little towns without 
 a vehicle. The graphical presentation isnt that impressive, you may even find a couple of bugs 
 (but they rarely occur) and the missions may even appear to be hard but there are so many things 
 you can do, you would likely forget all the other missions.
  For everyone who owns a PC they should definitely check this game out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 13, 2007 3:39 am PT
Review:  A very great installment to the GTA franchise. TONS of stuff to do, places to go, people to see, 
 and great music to listen to. The character personalization was a great touch. There's also a lot 
 of different side games as well. There's a TON of territory to cover and if it wasn't for the good 
 ol' waypoint system, it would be very easy to get lost. The storyline is quite good and keeps things 
 interesting. It also keeps in good play with the spirits of the 90's ;) All in all it's just a 
 good fun game and I would recommend it to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raptorIVaz
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 12, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Grand theft auto was an amazing game, don't get me wrong, a lot of thought was put into it and 
 there was great detail in the realism in the different ecosystems, but there are so many glitches 
 that could have been worked out before release, graphics could have been improved, and AI could 
 have been tinkered with a little more. The developers of this game had a lot of good ideas, and 
 implemented most of them well, but it seems they didn't try to make them work right before release. 
 For instance, you don't really even have to work out, or even eat. Averagely the player will die 
 too much, and won't have to eat because of it.
  
  So, to wrap it up, I expect the next GTA to be more professional. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grihn
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 10, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  I'm assuming everyone knows the story of the GTA games, or at least you have a broad idea. So, 
 I'm gonna talk more about the good and bad of the game.
  
  The Good:
  Visually the PC version of this game is quite better than the console versions, basically simply 
 because you can put it in a higher resolution. Sound is also pretty good for this type of game, 
 though no better or worse than any other version of the game. It also plays quite well on a standard 
 keyboard and mouse.
  
  The Bad:
  San Andreas sometime expierences random crashes, though not often. There is also a bug with the 
 pause feature. Every now and then after I pause or save a game, the camera won't move when I go 
 back to play. I move the mouse all over the mouse pad, but the camera stays still. It's an easy 
 fix, requiring only another quick pause, but it's annoying none-the-less. At first, I thought it 
 may just be my game, but several other's I've talked to have had this problem as well.
  
  Still, this in my opinion is the best in the GTA series while still keeping it relatively original. 
 I have enjoyed it very much and am glad I got the PC version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vidder
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 9, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Best in the series so far. Played it so much I'm at a point where there are just too many directions 
 and missions to complete that I keep driving around aimlessly just because I can!! All games need 
 to be like this, 3rd and 1st person games. Open environments, and then throw in Multi-player and 
 you've got some nasty gaming action! Now I await GTA IV which will hopefully add our Multi-player 
 abilities along with a superb open-ended game that never ever has a chance of truly ending, and 
 gives you a big chubby of entertainment :-D
  
  We can only hope GTA IV will be the start of fully Open Environment along with Massive Multi-player 
 abilities so that we never have to see a real person again :o 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddy2by4
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2007 8:41 am PT
Review:  My point is that GTA San Andreas is one of the most played Games on Earth. Like all GTA Series, 
 San Andreas was a very promising game from the trailers that we see from the other games (Vice 
 City) , everybody waited the game. I don`t say the graphics of the game is very awesome, but you 
 have to admit it, with all effects and anti-aliasing turned on, it`s a cool game to play with. 
 You can have lots of fun playing it... not for the missions and the other stuff, I mean it`s great 
 in both ways, when you want to play missions then you`ll play missions, when you want to have fun 
 you just go out the save house and kill everybody in your way. Gameplay is perfect, like in all 
 GTA series in the matter of fact, the only thing I found disturbing was the missions with the airplane, 
 at start the game was made for PS2 and that sorts of missions where hard to play on a keyboard, 
 but there were fun anyway. The ideas of having girlfriends I think is brilliant sound, a bit more 
 from our world, not always the same monotony like in games with the same gameplay, sound very exciting. 
 So in my impression I think GTA San Andreas is a great game that every gamer shouldnt miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billhitman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 23, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  The storyline is very well, full of twists, combining new characters, and old, familiar chracters. 
 The graphics &amp; sound are good for a 2005 game. Each mission is different and original, from 
 a mission telling you about gyms and haircuts, to missions about flying a military jet-plane, dog 
 fighting other planes, and destroying spy ships, and spying on drug dealers, out in a small town 
 called Angel Pine.
  
  The value is very high itself, and with the many mods, skins, total conversions, weapon packs, 
 and even two very good multi players (sa-mp, and mta) , the value is 10 out of 10.
  
  The game can be very exciting and long, if you limit yourself to play 1-2 missions a day.
  
 
  There are many many side missions, from the familiar Ambulance, Firefighter, and Vigilante, to 
 new side missions, like Burglary, body building, many gyms, triathlons, snap shots, horseshoes, 
 gang tags to spray, oysters to collect, 6 different and uniquely rewarding women to date, weapon 
 stats to raise, weapons to collect, new places to explore, many deep characters, different places 
 to buy food and cloths, the ability to swim and dive underwater (Finally ! ) , humorous areas in 
 the desert (area 69 :p ) , more personal and family feeling, and to conclude:
  
  Just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  As the next sequel in the Grand Theft Auto series, San Andreas had some important responsabilities. On 
 PS2, the game showed that Rockstar Games are the best at creating action games. So, here comes the 
 PC version. The main character, Carl Johnson, returns from Liberty City to Los Santos, a city from 
 the San Andreas state. Well, there are 3 cities: Los Santos (Los Angeles in real USA) , San Fierro 
 (San Francisco) & Las Venturas (Las Vegas) ,& huge countryside regions between them, with  
 difference between the cities is the arhitecture of the buildings, the climate & the people. So you'll 
 get to explore all this space & do missions here. From shooting ones, taking turf, car chases, robbing 
 the army, placing graffiti on the walls, sneaking & stealing things from peoples' houses, destrying 
 houses, robbing stores & bancs, casinos to infiltrating on secret ships by swimming under coral 
 reefs & placing dynamite on the ship, recuing prisoniers, dueling with swords, robbing the Area 51 
 for a jetpack prototype, boat chases, plane dogfights with jet planes, stealth bombers, military 
 hellicopters, jumping from a plane to an other,& many many more. You'll also have secundary missions, as 
  But to do all this, CJ must be skilled. So Rockstar made GTA SA 
 a kind of RPG. CJ has  appeal, underwater 
 breathing& many more. By going to the gym, doing exercises, or boxing, you increase your strenght, buscle, stamina 
 & decrease your fat. By driving vehicles you get driving skill+ from time to time. You must eat,& 
 if you don't, you'll get sick & die. Choose different meals from more different restaurants (Well 
 Stacked Pizza, Burger Shot, Cluckin' Bell, etc) , but do not eat to much, because you'll become to fat 
 & you won't be able to run,& you can have a heart attack! You can also choose about 100 hairstyles 
 for CJ, about 100 types of tatoos,& about 1000  
 your car, exactly as in Need for Speed-s, eith  hydraulics, vynils, etc. Swim, or 
 take swimming contests. Go to bars, play videogames, pool, drink, put horse race bets, etc. At the casinos, try 
 your luck: play poker, slots, fortune wheel, etc. Or take your girlfriend out, go dancing, kiss her & 
 make sex with her. Be a cop, paramedic, taxi driver, valet, truck driver, etc. There are so many things 
 to do, that you can't discover them all: you'll never get bord. The graphics are done with the GTA 
 III engine, but are better. The faces of people are horrible, but there are some simply superb landscapes,& 
 good heat haze & speed blurr effects. The sound is really good, although the weapons don't sound 
 convincing. The radio stations are plenty (the best is Radio X) , but there are too many rap/hip hop 
 station (rap & hip hop suck, they're horrible) . The voice acting is nice & very funny sometimes. This 
 is trully a masterpiece: consider a great game of the year 2005, one of the greates games ever, although 
 it's not better than MAFIA... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2007 4:03 am PT
Review:  Superb work Rockstar. Grand Theft San Andreas ( made by Rockstar) rocks in every aspect. Carl Johnson 
 the hero returns to his home from prison to build up his rep in his neighbourhood. His brother Sweets 
 there's to help him until things goes really nasty. Who's behind everything for Johnson familys 
 downfall ? that i will not spoil by telling. The story starts with gangwars .Gangs control the streets 
 and CJ has to recover them all for his own hood. There are tons of villains in the game ranging 
 from petty gangs to drug lords. CJ has to do eliminate them and sometimes do buisness with them 
 too. Not to worry , there are good peoples in the game too to help out CJ in his missions. Apart 
 from petty gangwars theres a spendid main storyline . The games graphics / visuals is best compared 
 to other GTA games. The game has top notch soundquality and soundtracks . The AI , voiceovers are 
 very neatly done in the game. The side characters in the game are highly enjoyable with splendid 
 voiceacting / humour like Maccer , Catalina , Oj Loc etc. Hollywood real life stars have lended 
 their voice to the characters. CJ ( Carl Johnson) has to do quite big list of main missions to 
 progress in the game coupled with lots of side missions too. You get superb action in the game with 
 weapons ranging from melee to heavy weaponary. You get military weapons , vechiles , air rides too. Add 
 tense cop action / car chases to the scene. The game is freeroaming ,neverending kind of game. In 
 one word the game is very , very lenghty. CJ has to drive lots of excellent vechiles from cars to 
 boats and air rides from choppers to jets. The vechiles in the game are really astounding and attractive. The 
 vechiles have inbuilt radio's too. The places and atmosphere of the game rocks too. Once you unlock 
 Las Venturas ( imaginary Las Vegas Casino city) You'll never want to return from there .The places 
 are described with very good detail and looks quite sophisticated. You get beaches , urban cities 
 , islands ,deserts to countryside in the game to freeroam . The dresses worn by character sp. CJ 
 looks quite nice . CJ gets to do gym , swim , eat foods ,dress up ,unlock and date girlfreinds 
 , have stylish haircuts , do tattoo in his body ,gamble in casinos and buy casinos too , buy houses 
 in every city ranging from ordinary to lavish houses etc .In GTA San Andreas you get few characters 
 from GTA 3 and GTA Vice City too plus you get get to visit Liberty City from GTA 3 once. Overall 
 i highly recommend the game. Its absolute worth to add the game to your collecction and play it 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokyou
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 14, 2007 12:09 am PT
Review:  Gta: San Andreas is one of the best in the series. The graphics is ok and the Ai is improved as 
 now you can't just kill a pedestrian without anyone caring. The best new feature was the ability 
 to swim, which is something the older versions of Gta can't, which was.... unrealistic. The storyline 
 is not bad but it gets kind of repetitive and boring. As the missions are done at your leisure, 
 players gain the freedom to go on a rampage like killing and destroying vehicles which is plain 
 fun. Using the sniper to pop someone's head off was particularly disturbing though as they lay without 
 a head on the ground. The vehicles were nice, my personal favourite the sanchez which is a great 
 offroad scrambler. Overall this game is worth buying as it gives a great thrill ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_falcon_mi
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 8, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good. But very similar to the previous version of the same one. In the personal 
 thing already I am tired of going to the cyber and going to the whole world playing this game when 
 with a few friends we win it in less than 1 week.
  The game in if I like to myself very much principally I begin of being able to walk in bicycle. 
 Serious very good if it was possible to to enter (approach) in mas buildings or houses, to do it 
 mas realistic. For that it (he, she) likes to them the blood in the games this is one of this in 
 that one does not tire of killing people. In end (purpose) , this game in very good and it is necessary 
 to play it, but they try to not gain (earn) it rapidly since I made it I, it enjoy mas that can. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grottekvarnen
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 4, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  Gta San Andreas is one of the most incredible and fascinating games i have ever played . Some believe 
 that the GTA Vice City is better than
  San Andreas but that is not true . This title has to offer many things to every player in the world 
 . It gives you the opportunity to do things
  you couldn' t do in the real life . You can steal , kill , be the best
  and concur areas that 
 are taken by gangs . This is the new feature , gangs.
  Now , you don't focuse only in the missions but also in the rival gangs
  that are usually attacking 
 your areas . Also , many beautiful sceneries
  and great missions make this game fantastic . So , if you think you have
  played the best games 
 , then you should try this one!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doomer101
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 15, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  I have recently realised that i never passed ANY of the gta games, yet I own all of them from GTA2 
 to GTA San Andreas. Well let me tell you this : San Andreas was no exception.
  
  I had much fun playing the game for the first 10-20 hours, but after that it just got sooooo repetitive 
 and boring, that I couldn't go on anymore.
  
  Graphics : Improvement over the last series, but still pretty weak in my opinion. Though keep in 
 mind, that the graphics in this game are not important.
  
  Gameplay : For the first 10-20 hours, it's fun going around, shooting stuff, flying planes, doing 
 missions, conquering territory, dating, driving..... But it gets old pretty fast, and i just lost 
 interest in the game.
  The cheats are sure fun to use.... for 10-20 minutes. After that, it gets boring.
  The shooting 
 action is pretty decent, so is the driving, but the plane is a pain in the ass to fly at first.
 
  
  Sound : The voice acting isn't terrible, but could be alot better. The vehicles sound nice, but 
 the weapons dont. They sound weak, when in fact they arent.
  All in all, the sound isnt much of an accomplishement.
  
  Value : Even though the game gets 
 boring and I uninstall it, after some time, i still have the desire to get back to it, for another 
 10-20 hours. (This is the 3rd time i restarted the game)
  
  All in all, Gta San Andreas is a decent shooter, that will keep you occupied for 10-20 hours, and 
 will keep you coming back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dom84ts
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 19, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  With this episode GTA has changed some more and definitely to another typology of game!
  
  In this game is possible to acquire the control of some zones of the city.
  Also here like in 
 the previous games of Gta you have to do missions and quest to go on in the story but on my opinion 
 in some parts is similar to games like The Sims! :) you have to feed to dress to pump you character 
 this is a bit boring!
  
  Graphics are great and good game play also the audio is not bad!
  
  The story maybe is too 
 concentrated on gangster aspects but it still works! This episode didn't take me like the previous 
 ones and in fact i didn't finish it! : ( Maybe in the future!
  
  Amazing the fact that you can drive helicopters and airplanes quite well!
  
  Some quest are 
 really amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skulldyvan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 14, 2007 3:02 pm PT
Review:  THE GAMEPLAY
  
  This one has lots of new features which vice didn't have: car modding garages, gang wars, girlfriends, 
 the player can swim and dive, new R3 missions, more vehicles including lots of planes and boats 
 (even tractors, harvesters, bicycles and cops on motorcycles) , gyms, restaurants, skydiving and driving 
 schools.
  
  Modding garages have different owners which mod only certain types of cars. Loco low only mods 
 lowriders like voodoos, wang cars mods racing cars and transfender mods all other vehicles (except 
 boats, planes, helicopters, tractors etc.) .
  
  Hidden packages are replaced by 100graffiti (only in LSantos) , 100photos (only in SFierro) , 100horseshoes (only 
 in LVenturas) and oysters (only in water, all over the state) . Graffiti must be sprayed with a spray 
 can, found at your first safe house and also used as a weapon. Photos can be obtained by photographing 
 some icons which are only visible through the camera lens. Horseshoes are collected just like the 
 old hidden packages. Oysters are like hidden packages too, just underwater. Each 100 of them offer 
 4 different weapon pickups at different safe houses except oysters, which offer you increased sex 
 appeal.
  
  Now you and your gang can win and loose territory through gang wars.
  
  There are also 6 girlfriends in the game. Two of them will be encountered during the main storyline 
 missions and offer no bonus. The other 4 must be found at various places around San Andreas. They 
 have some giant blue arrows on top of their heads and offer various bonuses like keeping weapons 
 after being busted/wasted, free pay'n'spray and weapon pickups. All 6 offer their car keys when 
 reaching about 60% relationship and different clothes available at the safe houses when reaching 
 100%. To increase relationship you must date them. They may refuse dates if you don't match some 
 preferences (or you can collect all oysters and they will allways accept dates) . You can kiss them 
 and offer gifts like flowers or sexual toys which can also be used as weapons.
  
  You must now eat (from vendors, restaurants or coin machines) or you will loose fat (gained from 
 eating) , muscle (gained by visiting the gym) and health.
  
  If you have a parachute you can jump off a plane while flying and it will equip automatically. 
 You open it by leftclick.
  
  You can find some schools schools: driving, boating, flying and motorcycling. If you pass the tests, 
 vehicles will spawn in front of the schools according to your skill.
  
  There are also nightvision and heatdetecting glasses available.
  
  The map is giant comparing 
 to 3 and vice.
  
  You can do robberies, delivery (for asset) and pimping side missions.
  
  Each zone (desert, steppe, forests, mountain) and city has its own atmosphere and weather. 
 In SF it is rainy and foggy while in desert is a sandstorm.
  
  You can customize your character with buyable clothes (head, face, torso, legs, feet, shades, watches, 
 accessories) from different shops, tatoos from different tatooists and haircuts. Piercings aren't 
 available.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics isn't impressive but it is acceptable. Some effects are weak (clouds have strange 
 black edges) . People are kinda blocky and some textures are lo-res and stretched. If you wanna 
 know about the graphics just watch the screenshots.
  
  SOUND
  
  You can find 162 tracks of licensed country, alternative, old and gangsta rap, dusty rock, house 
 plus custom channel, funny ads, and talk-show channel.
  The voice acting is weak but not disturbing and sound effects are problematic (can't hear effects 
 and voices at all if it's raining) .
  
  STORYLINE
  
  It isn't very great but it is good enough to keep you locked, loaded, gangsta .
  
  OVERALL
 
  
  GTA SA is a great experience, still moddable with hundreds of mods available on the web. I recommend 
 it to anyone. Few will regret playing it.
  I still like getting a high wanted level and hunt hydras with my own hydra.
  
  keep it locked, 
 keep it loaded, keep it gangsta 
  
  PS: English isn't my motherlanguage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XtaszY
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 14, 2007 3:03 am PT
Review:  I play all GTA series from GTA 1, London, GTA 2 and all 3D game but GTA San Andreas is the best. 
 I can do everything I want, in real life if i do this things I be maybe in jail now, but in SA 
 all is possible. Returning of gangs from GTA II and zone of influence make from GTA SA the best 
 and the most complex game ever. Cars, Bikes and many other vehicle have a real motion and is a 
 pleasure to drive, not like NFS when you need to spend a lot of time in garage to make a car and 
 the motion of that don't have nothing in common with real one. I played for several times but not 
 for missions, I played because I like it all. Manny games and companies try to copy GTA idea and 
 to make profit from this type of game but GTA is unique. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yurihammo
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 12, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  Really good, when you startt you just wanna keep playin, ive finished this game 3 times on my friends 
 PS2 (he lent it) . when ive played it, ive always done the things a gangster would do and stuff 
 like that unlike some other gamers who just finish the games missions and thats it. The game is 
 generally quite easy and fun (sometimes very fun) but certain missions are very hard, and you gotta 
 take a few shots at them, but the second time, i did the motorbike mission and finished without 
 dying, or failing it (the one where you gotta stal them and bring them on the truck on the mootrway) 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amstrup00
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 12, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  Yeah.
  One of my friends got this game for his birthday. And after several hours at his home playing the 
 game, i decited to by it myself. And so i did.
  First of all i was a little dissapointed over the graphics in the game. But i've heard that it 
 looks good on a, yeah, good computer. And another thing that i was dissapointed about, were the 
 sound. I don't know if it's becouse of my sound card, but it defently isn't good!
  
  But the rest, i really liked! I've spent many hours at my computer at the nights, becouse this 
 game really addicted me. I started the game over, and over again, when i completed it. And it really 
 were fun, allmost everytime.
  Another thing i like is the story and of course the stores, where the player can by new tatoos, 
 clothes and hair cuts. I also like the free roam gameplay, but then i ask myself, who dosn't?! 
 :D
  
  So overall, a very good game! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurnThisCity
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 11, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  As you may already know, Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is one hell of a fine, fine game; and this 
 review is not going differ from other player reviews praising this game, I might as well make this 
 review crunchy, as followed:
  
  San Andreas really offers a very extensive gameplay, detailed storyline, and advanced graphics 
 for those who can handle it. What separates this game from other honorable titles such as Grand 
 Theft Auto 3 is that in this game, the player, Carl Johnson, is not a mute; and more realisticly, 
 he can actually jump. You also get a change of your look such as getting a haircut or clothing; 
 there's also driving schools available for those of us who wants to (have to if you want to get 
 100% in this game) learn to master driving a car, boat, airplane, and even motorcycle. Sounds and 
 Graphics wise, if you have anything from mid-range to high-end you are going to appreciate this 
 game even more than those who have something like a nVidia GFFX card. It is a wonder how much the 
 developers actually spent on making the world details because from the way you look to all the 
 way down the street as far as you can see, everything just looks perfect.
  
  When you drive around in your crummy car in this game (it's 1992, okay?) , you can never be bored 
 because this game offers three very fascinating features on the car radio: the funny, funny commercials, 
 all of which add up to about 1 hour long (such as the Glory Hole Themepark ) , a handful of radio 
 stations playing different genres of music, from Ozzy to Tupac, and the player can also add their 
 own favorite songs to a User Select Tracks music library where you can actually play those selected 
 songs on this designated station. All in all, I doubt anyone can say that they dislike this game, 
 and to date this game probably offers the best, detailed gameplay on any Grand Theft Auto titles 
 that's out on the PC. Do yourself a favor and play this. No matter if you're used to FPS or RTS 
 or games like Barbie's Shopping Adventures, you are guaranteed to enjoy this game as much as anyone 
 and everyone did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantomstrider
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 7, 2007 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is simply an excellent game. It has excellent replay value, a brilliant 
 graphics engine with minimal loading time, a gigantic map, buckets of variety, a long, fun, immersive 
 story with lots of twists, some excellently done voice acting, and great gameplay.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  The actual graphics of san andreas look pretty average. However, its graphics 
 engine completely removes loading times when switching between areas. The entire map will be loaded 
 up when leaving a building, which is notably huge. High textures with high resolution don't look 
 that bad. Given the game's smoothness, textures were something I tended to not notice too much.
 
  
  Sound: 8/10
  Sound effects tend to be fine. Things like gun effects have enough of a meaty sound to be in effective 
 in sounding like guns. Most of the dialogue has been well scripted and properly voiced. There is 
 a voice from the main character, CJ for every occasion. Whether you're trying to get attention 
 from the cops, or falling from a 6-story building. Radio channels are appropriately witty and generally 
 well done.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Excellent. Its fun, replayable and detailed.
  
  Overall: 9/10
  This game's been transferred from the PS2 to PC very well. It is a game I would 
 recommend to any gamer looking for a good action game. It is a game I would definitely recommend 
 to any GTA fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viveckvivu
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  Yes, this game shouldnt be missed. I told you in my Vice City review that that was the game in 
 which we can do almost anything in the big city. Well, San Andreas is the biggest city in a game 
 and in this game too we can do anything we like.
  
  Lots and lots of different cars. Cool motor bikes and for the first time in GTA I rode a bike. 
 A BMX, a bike and a mountain bike. You can drive boats, planes, commercial planes too, jet planes 
 with guns and missiles. Helicopters, and many many more. You can drive ATV's, dirt bikes, and karts 
 too. And you can even parachute from high places. that is just awesome. We can even cut CJ's hair 
 and change our style.
  
  The players can go to some shops and eat. buy some clothings and even go to clubs, discos and gyms 
 to learn new moves and to build up muscle too. There are many big cities in San Andreas. Los Santos, 
 San Feiro, Las ventures. And many small places too. The players can even swim in this game. CJ 
 can do underwater too and hold breath fopr a short amount of time. The story: We play as CJ (Carl 
 Johnson) who has just gotten out of the Liberty City Prison. Now, he must go to Los Santos because 
 her mother is killed. But he meets some crooked officer Tenpenny and he is sent to the street life 
 in Los Santos again. In the first part of our story: We try to make our gang the number one in 
 Los Santos. Then, a twist comes in the story. A realy big twist. The combat system is really advanced 
 in this game. There are many new weapons in San Andreas. We can either aim and shoot the baddies 
 or just shoot them instantly without aiming. This game has many stealth elements too. The stealth 
 missions are really challenging and fun!
  
  There are many properties to buy in SA. I mean, there are millions aof properties. There are loads 
 of side missions too.
  
  The radio stations are really awesome in this game too. Really cool songs and many hilarious talk 
 shows. What do I say more about it? Well, In my opinion it is better than Vice City. The best GTA 
 game I have ever played. Has many missions. I mean there are more than 150 missions in San Andreas.
 
  
  PLAY IT, JUST PLAY IT IF YOU ARE A GTA FAN! YOU WILL LOVE IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billjacksonn
Rating: 1.3
Date: Jan 31, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I never should have bought this game. It is the most low minded peice of software I have ever played. 
 Playing this game made me think that it's perfect for wannabe thugs that are 14 years old and have 
 no idea what real street life is about. The sad thing is, the content is not suitable for 14 year 
 olds - drug dealing, murdering, having sex with prostitutes, etc. The graphics are suprisingly 
 dull and one dimensional (flat) and the voicework could have used some professionals as well. The 
 large scale world is a cool idea though, and could have been used in a much more entertaining way 
 besides playing a thug.
  
  It's safe to say that this game is the biggest let down I've ever had in the history of PC gaming. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SturmGeschuetZ
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 26, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome , pure fun at its best , do what you want because the game lets you as in 
 previous Grand Theft Auto's. Great storyline , great finish. This game is purely amazing. Trust 
 me , just play it. The fact that you can customize your player to be Fat , Skinny , strong , weak 
 , or give him a fresh haircut , or some new ink , leaves your CJ to unlimited combinations. Lots 
 of skin mods and online mods have been made so you can take your battles in the grove to the online 
 world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robjkay
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  GTA: SA is basically identical to the PS2 version except for the better graphics on the XB. As 
 far as better load... GTA: SA is basically identical to the PS2 version except for the better graphics 
 on the XB. As far as better load times, I can only say I have played the game on 3 different XB 
 systems (mine and two other friends) and the only noticeably better load time between XB and the 
 PS2 were the boot screens.
  
  Bugs found in the original PS2 version are still intact on the XB. I have lost several games to 
 dirty disc errors as well. It may be that my XB is getting pretty old, so beware all first generation 
 XB owners.
  
  My biggest gripe against the game is the control lay-out. it did not adapt well to the XB controller 
 for flight or vehicle drive-bys. You have to use the black and white buttons to aim out the right 
 or left of a car while pressing the A button to fire; very clunky. The black and white buttons 
 are also used as rudder controls for flight, but that was not as bad, just takes a bit to get used 
 to.
  
  If you don't own a PS2 then don't miss out on this game. If you own a PS2 and XB, stick to the 
 PS2 version for better controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkManiaN_1979
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 18, 2007 12:57 am PT
Review:  You are C. J. A rough gangster who is returning home for his mothers funeral. His brother and childhood 
 friends are messed up in gangs also, but after some discussion you all decide its time to bring 
 your street gang back into power. If you are like me, the thought of gangsta thug mentality is 
 slightly depressing. But, im here to tell you that this game surpasses all that gangster stuff 
 and is just straight out the best RPG i've ever seen or played to date. Anyone who is familiar 
 with GTA III, or Vice City would know what to expect from the game play and targeting, weaponry 
 system. For those who dont its a fairly simple point and click system. easy as pie. Driving is 
 a breeze, and there is loads of driving in the game. Also loads of cars to be jacked and resprayed, 
 decked out and pimped out. This game has so much stuff here its crazy to think about how much time 
 was put into making it. Story Line missions and sub-missions galore, that could have you doing 
 anything from taking down a local gang member, to blasting up an army barracks.
  
  The vehicles on offer this time are similar to the last installment,
  Planes, Trains and Automobiles. 
 Bikes, boats and anything that floats. This is a killer for modding as well. Theres a couple of 
 mod shops that keep you interested for a long time to come. The sound tracks are cool and for all 
 you rockers.. I recommend checking out the Flying V guitar pool atop the VRock Hotel. niiice. Without 
 babbling on anymore.. I seriously recommend you go out and get this. Its a definitely, gotta have 
 this, have to check this out, i'll be a dick if I dont at least download this game, game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigbarnacle
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2007 12:37 am PT
Review:  http://video. google. com/videoplay? docid=-6725574626123291340&amp; q=69+dodge+charger
  here is the site if you know how to get it let me know email address is barnacle1230@yahoo. com. 
 if you watch the video you can see a 69 dodge charger driving up and own the landing stripe at 
 the airport in the desert. it doesnt look like the one i have seen. it is black toped. but i want 
 to know if there is a general lee dodge charger in the game? where it is and how do i get it? the 
 is a kick ass game and is a ton of fun. it does need more muscle cars in it. everything else is 
 cool. all the planes. even the big plane that is in the big hanger in the last city you get to. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwizard310
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Decent enough graphics, huge world, great storyline. I have no complaints about this game. I love 
 it, I've finished it like 6 or 7 times and have gotten many hundreds of hours of game play out 
 of it. The only game that I've gotten more out of is Diablo 2. I grew up in the Los Angeles area 
 and really get jazzed when I see so many places that I recognize, both in Los Santos and San Fiero 
 . They do the cities justice, without looking contrived. The story is really strong, the voice 
 acting is great and the variety of play will keep you searching like a crack head for that last 
 morsel of play... Please man, just one more vehicle. Just one more prop plane, boat, hovercraft, 
 jetpack, jet airplane, dirt bike, road racer, bicycle, helicopter Well, you get the point...
  
  You can spend literally hours and hours just looking for new unique jumps and precisely the 
 right vehicle with which to make said jump. Take over new some busters turf and defend it from 
 those **** Ballers all the while listening to some Snoop Dog? Yeah baby, call me Hitman with the 
 sawed off shot guns... oh yeah... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan4u
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 12, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is my third GTA game. After playing San Andreas, I realized that 
 all the praise surrounding the GTA series was indeed well earned and deserved. The sheer variety 
 and scope of GTA: San Andreas is astounding, unprecedented in all of gaming, (not counting the 
 original PS2 title of course.) Such a sandbox-style game as GTA: San Andreas is hard to review 
 accurately, and your enjoyment of the game depends largely on whether you like the free roaming 
 variety of a game such as this, or a more linear game, which this certainly is not.
  
  Gameplay: 10
  
  First and foremost, GTA: San Andreas, and the Grand theft Auto series in general, 
 pioneered, and still are the leaders of the unique game style present here. Emulated and copied 
 in many other games, this series has always been the king of the genre, a league above all other 
 so called GTA clones. When playing GTA: San Andreas, you enter a world where anything is seemingly 
 possible, from flying a helicopter upside down under a high way bridge intersection, to shooting 
 a heat seeking rocket launcher at oncoming FBI SUVs. These kinds of situations are commonplace 
 in the San Andreas universe. There is a storyline, and GTA can be followed fairly linearly, but 
 most of the fun comes from taking what you learn during missions, and taking it to the streets 
 and countries of San Andreas. It is a living and breathing collection of three cities and their 
 surrounding countryside. In this game there are a variety of mission types, as well as optional 
 missions. Missions often include retrieving a guarded item, protecting someone, killing someone, 
 or otherwise shooting one or more people. There are also the various racing or driving missions, 
 an integral part of this game. Lastly there are the gimmicky missions which include piloting a 
 remote control plane and using a mounted minigun to shoot down oncoming planes. While somewhat 
 boring and a bit frustrating at times, these unique missions do break up the pace of the other 
 missions. The game is very long, and doing everything and getting to 100% will take most people 
 well over 50 hours. The incredible diversity of the game and its gameplay give GTA: San Andreas 
 an easy ten, and the quality is a ten as well.
  
  Story: 8
  
  GTA: San Andreas is set in three unique cities, each with their own style of 90's life. The story 
 involves you (C. J.) rising up the ranks as a gang member, and there are many smaller storylines 
 within the larger picture. There is plenty of tongue-in-cheek humor and exciting storylines, but 
 some of the longer storylines drag out a bit too long, or are a bit too dull. There are many though, 
 and you can be sure that after finishing a mediocre part of the plot, another interesting part 
 will come next. The story is moderately authentic, and even though Rockstar goes a little overboard 
 on the swearing, it didn't bother me too much, although it wouldn't be appropriate for a younger 
 audience, Controls: 7
  
  The only iffy parts of the PC version of GTA: San Andreas are the controls. Although doubtlessly 
 much better with a gamepad, the controls aren't always easy to use or convenient. Because of the 
 mouse control, lock-on has been taken away, and while most shooting missions are easy enough without 
 it, sometimes you wish for your shot to go right at enemies. The driving controls are good, although 
 during certain driving tests, the controls just aren't up to par.
  
  Graphics: 8
  
  The graphics on the PC version of GTA: San Andreas are great, and the only points docked are for 
 what could have been. The graphics aren't vastly improved over the PS2 version, especially the 
 character models. The animations, explosions, and the great quantity of models onscreen at once 
 are top notch. I wish that the character models and textures had been a little higher resolution, 
 but you can't get everything I guess.
  
  Sound: 10
  
  First off with the sound, this score can vary wildly with your musical tastes. The sound effects 
 are accurate and plentiful, and the voice acting is in my opinion well done, but one of the most 
 compelling parts of the GTA series, the radio stations are hit or miss. I like the variety of stations, 
 and even the talk radio was great, but depending on your musical tastes the car rides will be marked 
 by silence or engaging tunes. If you don't mind music that might be out of place in the 90's time 
 period, you can always import your own songs into a custom radio station so that you will never 
 be hurting for good music while cruising down the highway.
  
  Replay Value: 10
  
  This for me is always a key factor for a game. When I buy a game, I want my money's worth, and 
 this game delivers your money's worth by the shovelful. Some people will almost literally never 
 get bored of this title, engaged by the never-ending scenarios you can put yourself into in the 
 world with endless possibilities. Even if you are one to stop your games at 100% completion, on 
 the way there you can't help but spend hours in exciting and challenging situations. If I had to 
 have one game (not a MMORPG) on a desert island with me, I would choose this one, bar none.
  
  Overall: 9
  
  GTA: San Andreas is a great game, port or not, and worthy of a spot in anyone's 
 collection. The only gripes are the controls which are sometimes iffy, and the fact that more could 
 have been added from the PS2 version. Besides those small complaints, this game is magnificent. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dexfx69
Rating: 3
Date: Jan 23, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Although a spineless Gamespot editor has had my previous 2 reviews of this game deleted (Wow! Censorship 
 is alive and well in America!) , here it is for a third time:
  
  This game suffers from dated looking graphics, harkening back to the look of games in the 2001-2003 
 timeline. However, the gameplay can be intriguing, as the player is given a huge world to explore. 
 This is the best part of the game that sets it apart from others. The sad thing is (just like the 
 developer of Deus Ex said about this game) is that the graphic violence against humans, and degrading 
 of women in this game is often very graphic. That being said, if you're into that kind of thing, 
 this game is probably very cool! Hookers, drug dealers, seedy street talk, murders etc. are all 
 presented in their prisine glory, so for old fogeys like me (35+) , I find this game in very poor 
 taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SouthParkFan92
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 7, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto is one of the most popular video game series ever! But I have not played any GTA 
 games until I got Vice City for christmas last year. I played it and was amazed at the good storyline 
 and all the things you could do plus the excellent soundtrack. After I finished the game I decided 
 to buy San Andreas. I was even more amazed at San Andreas. The graphics are the best out of any GTA 
 game. The graphics may still not be the greatest of all time but graphics arent what make a game. Its 
 the gameplay and San Andreas's gameplay is excellent. You can do almost anything in Grand Theft 
 Auto San Andreas especially as you go on. Throughout the course of the game you can fly planes, jets, jet 
 packs, you can ride bicycles, ATV's etc. Plus the motorcycles and cars from the other GTA games are 
 in San Andreas. You can jump out of the sky with a parachute. San Andreas is a whole state and you 
 can explore it. Plus there is one mission where you can fly back to Liberty City and visit the St. Mark's 
 Bistro but this is only for one mission. There are more weapons and features in San Andreas. Now 
 for the negative. There isnt very many but the storyline of San Andreas is definitly not as good 
 as the one in Vice City. There is more depth in the storyline of GTA Vice City. San Andreas has an 
 alright storyline but it definitly does not compare with the one in Vice City. The year is 1992. You 
 are Carl Johnson or CJ for short. Five years ago your brother was killed and everybody blames CJ 
 for it. The game does not really tell us what happened. CJ lives in Liberty City working with Joey 
 Leone but now that his mother was killed in a drive-by he must go back to San Andreas to avenge 
 her death. But things have changed in the five years he's been gone. The Grove Street Families are 
 no longer around and the Ballas and the Vagos are the big gangs controlling Los Santos. Los Santos 
 is the city where CJ was born and raised. Also there are plenty of drug dealers in the neighborhood 
 and a lot of former grove street family members are now crack-addicts. So while avenging his mothers 
 death CJ must bring back his old gang. There are also two corrupt cops named Officer Tenpenny and 
 Officer Eddie Pulaski. During his adventures CJ makes new friends. One of them is Cesar who his Carl's 
 sister Kendl's boyfriend. His gang is also weak and wants to come back to the top. On the last Los 
 Santos mission you find out that the car used to kill your mother was a green sabre and your two 
 friends Big Smoke and Ryder were working for the Ballas but trying to save your brother Sweet in 
 a shootout, Sweet gets arrested and you get kidnapped by Tenpenny and Pulaski and brought to the 
 countryside to do a mission for them. After you complete that mission you have to stay there and 
 you find out about Cesar's cousin Catalina (the girl who betrays Claude in GTA3) . You start a romantic 
 relationship with her as you rob stores in the countryside. But she breaks up with you and goes 
 for Claude (the protagonist of GTA3) . After you beat him in a race he gives you the deed to a garage 
 in San Fierro. You also meet a hippy called The Truth .You go to San Fierro and find out your garage 
 is a piece of crap but you end up re-decorating it while doing missions in San Fierro. You find 
 out that people who set you up are in San Fierro so you kill them all except for one person named 
 Mike Toreno who ends up being alive. You also meet the blind Triad leader who is Wu Zi Mu (or Woozie) After 
 you finished those missions you get a call from Toreno asking you to do some missions for him. Then 
 you go to his ranch in the desert. In the desert you learn how to fly planes. The last city you go 
 to is Las Venturas. In Las Venturas you do missions to aid Woozie's casino. One mission is where 
 you must save a rapper named Madd Dogg who was a person who'se rhymes you stole to help your friend 
 OG Loc who was an aspiring rapper. You then get him on his feet by getting his mansion back. After 
 doing more missions for Toreno your brother gets released from prison and reminds you about the 
 Ballas. So you now proceed to take over the gang territory they have before doing the final mission 
 which is really good!. Another interesting feature of the game is the fact that you can have girlfriends. You 
 must take them out to restaurants or take them to dance.
  
  In Conclusion Grand Theft Auto San Andreas is an amazing game not to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: worstatPES
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 7, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  This review may seem a little tilted in places, but I'm not a pc gamer, as such i have preferences 
 toward my home platform (ps2) .
  
  On the downside...
  The controls responded a little slow
  The mouselook was near impossible to master
  The graphics 
 never rendered at the exact time
  It's hard to find reliable places to download mods
  Long-ass missions and gameplay time
  
  On the upside...
  The controls were easy to work out 
 at least
  The mouselook helped with quick overviews of vehicles and high places
  The slow graphic output sometimes helped at high speeds
  So many downloads it hardly matters
 
  Weeks of gameplay time, years of replay value
  
  All in all, a thorough-bred game with high standards. Last words: BRING ON SAN ANDREAS STORIES! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fried_eggs
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 4, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  GTA. It's a series we're all familiar with. I'm sure if you're reading this you've played the game 
 or planning too. If you have played previous GTA games such as Vice City or 3, you will be familiar 
 with the buttons and game play. But they're certain changes that make this stand out.
  
  Ever played the game, and accidentally fall into the water. Oh, you think my character can swim 
 . Wrong. That was probably one of the most annoying aspects of the game. The minute your character 
 even touched water, you'll see your health steadily decreasing showing no mercy as you desperately 
 bash your keyboard trying to make some movement. well, long story short, he can swim! Finally. 
 Another thing is, they're three major cities in the game, all on different islands. As usual, you 
 have to complete all the story missions of your current island to proceed. As well as the major 
 cities, they're numerous small towns in the game. May seem pointless at first but you'll soon love 
 these hillbilly neighbourhoods when you are being chased by 30 cops and need a visit to a Pay 'N' 
 Spray.
  
  The replay value is amazing. Even after you complete the many story missions, there are side missions 
 as well. Deliver cargo, race in tournaments, work at the quarry and much more. They've also kept 
 the taxi, fire and ambulance missions if you're up for it.
  
  The game varies in missions. Some you'll find surprisingly easy while others awfully challenging. 
 You can also customize your character with new clothes. You gain and lose weight. And you can mod 
 most vehicles. It's definitely a game you'll be coming back to as there is always something to 
 do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokes67
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 31, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  The ability to add your own music and include the commercials is the best part. Great game for 
 adults, though its whimsical nature makes it seem like a game for teens. It's not. In 2007, GTA: 
 SA is worth picking up from the bargain bin though I have to say I think Scarface has improved 
 a lot on GTA. If you have a good PC and can play Scarface (after the patches) on high resolution, 
 it's more fun being Tony Montana than CJ.
  I hope GTA4 comes to the PC and that they use devices proven to work with a mouse -- such as scrolling 
 from first to third person (as in Oblivion) .
  I also want a 1st person perspective that show the dashboard and the player's hands when driving 
 *as in any number of driving games) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laversn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  This could be a great game if it was more open ended in this world. Sometimes you just don't want 
 to do all these missions, and they can get to you after awhile.
  
  Better AI would have help this to be a better game all around.
  It is worth playing though, as 
 the graphics/colors have a cool old school look to them and the whole environment is quite nice 
 at times. Some other companies could taken this whole idea and ran with it ... alot better in my 
 2.3 cents ... like Valve, I would like to see them work with this concept. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johan444
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 3:19 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: You are a guy named Carl Johnson CJ who has spend five years in Liberty City and is now 
 returning home. His gang is going down, his mother and brother has died, and his life is destroyed. 
 But there is still hope......... you have to do missons and learn more about CJ and his family 
 and his gang. You have to do dangerous missons and hard. The game is really hard to finish but 
 it's a great story. Graphics: It looks like reality but not so much. The weapons look great in 
 the game. I think it has much, much better graphic then Vice City but the graphics could be better. 
 Sound: It has great sound in the game. Everything sonds perfect in San Andreas. The weapons, the 
 talking, everything. The sound is just perfect and nothing else. Talking about the game: I think 
 that GTA: San Andreas is a perfect game but the graphics could have been a little better. I have 
 completed the game 3 times and you can't get tired of it. You can do much things in San Andreas 
 when you have completed the game like playing basketball, trying out some cheats, completing the 
 game again and much more. Many people I know has GTA: San Andreas and they are loving the game, 
 as do I. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sponny1
Rating: 5.6
Date: Dec 19, 2006 2:11 am PT
Review:  Now before we start this review i wanna remind you all im not a noob at this game but its just 
 that this game is very repetitive and irrating that it takes a person a hell number of tries to 
 finish it
  
  Gameplay: now the weapons have been replaced in the pc that the ps2 and xbox included. while the 
 weapons do some descent damge and there are some realistic gunfights plus it does have a nice game 
 which allow people or fans to make a mod for it like changing weapon or putting a lamborghinie 
 mode into the game is also fun
  while the mission is nice for the first few tries and very gangsta in a way but the sooner u go 
 the sooner it starts to get wierd, odd and badly writen i mean some misison are gangsta but come 
 on many mission tell you to ride a airplane i mean WTF?? what kind of gangster would ride an airplane 
 and many mission would describe carl, the charecter you use in the game, as a hitman i mean carl 
 is a gangster and hitman would fit great in gts3 and gta vice city but in gta san andreas is more 
 on gangster like saints row, now im not saying that saints row is better, since what kind of gangster 
 would ride a monster truck, what kind of ganster would jump from an airplane
  see the story line starts to get worst and it takes a hell lot of few times just to finish it ecpecially 
 the airplane mission i mean why would a ganster ride AN AIRPLANE?????????? plus would a ganster 
 steal a jetpack from a secret milatary base or steal a goo from a military train and would a gangster 
 steal a jetpack??????????? this is very annoting and its badly written
  while the voice acting is nice and music can really make you shake your legs
  
  graphics: while 
 gta has absolutely bad graphics and decorating your car in the wheels arch angel garage is very 
 dissapointing i mean ive been going trough a hard time in drivig school and only to realise that 
 the paint job sucks in the wheels arch angel but the loco low corporation has some serious nice 
 and sweet paintjob
  while its wierd to see stick fingers but charecter movements are very realistic but the environment 
 is nice and makes it fell like its a real living city while its wierd to see that normal people 
 have a very flatface and badly designed face but the charecters form the storyline look more realistic
 
  it seems that i only relaised that rockstar focused to much on the sotryline charecter detail 
 and not the normal npc people and the people are cloned which i hate it!
  
  sound: music are nice and sound very fun to listen and thats the one of the only good thing i said 
 so far. the sound effect are extremely bad but the voice acting are nice and samuel l jackson, yes 
 its mace window from starwars, doing the voice for the police guy who you will meet in the beggining 
 of the game
  
  
  while its not expensive but its worth it and must have for all those gta fans and budget player
 
  anyway gta is nowhere good to its predececcers as it is by far the worst in the series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto San Andreas the best game I played on PC in 2005.
  
  GTA SA is an amazing videogame. There was many add-ons to SA. Three huge cities, twelve small towns, 
 three islands with each of them being bigger than Vice City, tons of minigames and vehicles, RPG 
 elements, dual wielding, flying mulitple planes and the list goes on. There is so much to do, and 
 so much to explore which is the neat thing of GTA SA. The missions are fun, and the story is great.
 
  
  Gang wars is very fun, when you take over a territory and fight 30+ gangmembers trying to attack 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hutapamo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto San Andreas is a cool game to play and is highly addictive once you get to know 
 how to play it you get addicted to it, and when you are finished you'll still one to go places 
 in this game. What would make this game better is that the cars would have petrol in them and when 
 the petrol finishes you have to go to the petrol station to get some more. Grand Theft Auto San 
 Andreas Rules, I know that lots of you out there would agree with what I said. I'm the biggest 
 fan of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExtremeGamespot
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 7, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  Yeah this is what we call the real GTA, you've got many weapons, many places to go, cars to steal, girlfriends 
 and lots of missions which means you won't be disappointed when playing it.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Obviously it got a amazing gameplay because in this game you'll really travel, it's a big map 
 with 3 towns and some places to go. Here you'll find deserts, tropical forests and much more, the 
 story over all is great and you can surely play it all over without getting bored for at least 
 3 times. There's many guns, new cars and even planes such as the Jet and the Hydra.
  
  Graphics:
  
  For nowadays technology this game's graphics isn't all that good, but still it's 
 good enough and doesen't require a great machine to run it at high configuration. You'll see few 
 bugs and pretty moutains, places like that.
  
  Sounds:
  
  Great sounds even thought on PC it might have some problems such as when you're using the flamethrower 
 because it can stop making it's noise. But however they're pretty good, weapon sounds are realistic.
 
  
  Value:
  
  It doesen't got a really good value, because at least here in Brazil the DVD version is truly expensive, but 
 yet it's all worth it thought.
  
  Concluding:
  
  A great game that will keep you playing for months or even good years, if you like this kind of 
 game it's certainly a must buy! Im sure you won't be disappointed and will have much fun with it's 
 mods. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaClaw345
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 4, 2006 4:23 am PT
Review:  Given the endlessly bad press it receives, you'd almost think Grand Theft Auto was the ruin of 
 Western civilization. But while its hooker-beating and indiscriminate violence come up every time 
 some culture critic wants to rag on digital entertainment, gamers have their own reasons for liking 
 it. Reasons like limitless freedom, unfettered exploration and infinite possibilities for running 
 over old ladies at high speeds. And with Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, you'll get more of that 
 stuff than most people can handle.
  
  Giving players three full-sized cities to go nuts in, San Andreas is the biggest chapter in the 
 urban car-crime series, as well as one of the most convincing virtual worlds ever created. As former 
 gangsta Carl CJ Johnson, you'll explore the massive, fictional state of San Andreas, a California/Nevada 
 hybrid complete with analogues of Los Angeles, San Francisco and Las Vegas, with miles of countryside 
 and small towns in between. It's all supported by an epic, misison-based storyline that takes CJ 
 and friends from fighting lowly turf battles to pulling jobs for the CIA to planning a massive 
 casino heist. And then, as the game winds down, they'll finally go gun-to-gun with the people behind 
 CJ's misfortunes.
  
  Until then, the gameplay is classic GTA, which means players are generally free to do as they please 
 in a big, open 3-D world. Any vehicle you see can be taken for a joyride, and thanks to GTA's mix 
 of tongue-in-cheek mayhem and fine-tuned controls (when driving, at least) , this is a hell of a 
 lot of fun even when cops are chasing you around town (and they will, the second they see you doing 
 something illegal) .
  
  The rest of the action still revolves around shooting or beating folks, and this is a little less 
 enjoyable. If you're using a joypad, the auto-aiming system tends to lock on to the nearest person, 
 rather than the nearest threat. Is there a gang member shooting at you from across the block? Too 
 bad! You're locking onto that old lady behind you, whether you want to or not. And since she's 
 behind you, CJ will just point his gun straight up until you turn him around. Using the keyboard 
 and mouse instead of a joypad will give you perfect accuracy, but the trade-off there is that they 
 feel awkward and a little stiff for running and driving in third person.
  
  Thankfully, you'll at least have someone to watch your back while you wrestle with the controls. 
 Once he earns enough respect by pulling jobs and winning turf, CJ can recruit a small army of gang 
 members off the street. They're rock-stupid, but they can help you pull off drive-by shootings, 
 and they absorb bullets real good when you're fighting multiple opponents.
  
  
  While that's the bulk of the game, there's much more to do, and that'sSan Andreas' real triumph. 
 If driving gets old, for example, you can hijack a harrier jet. And when you get tired of flying 
 it around, you can bail out at 40,000 feet, parachute onto a mountaintop, ride a bicycle down to 
 a river, swim to the nearest boat and steal it. You can play pool, gamble, cultivate a romantic 
 relationship or just get fat eating pizza. There are even a handful of two-player challenges, a 
 first for the series. San Andreas is your oyster, and its dozens of minigames, all integrated smoothly 
 into the landscape and storyline, give you plenty of ways to crack it open.
  
  In terms of presentation and production values, San Andreas is a mixed bag. Sure, its graphics 
 are ugly and chunky (although there's plenty of detail if you look closely) , but each of the game's 
 locales nicely captures the look of its real-world counterpart. San Andreas' cast (which includes 
 Charlie Murphy, David Cross, James Woods and Samuel L. Jackson) turns in top-notch performances, 
 the script is brilliant and off-kilter and the 11 in-game radio stations blare licensed rock, rap 
 and country songs.
  
  The PC version is easily the best, so long as you've got a beefy-enough machine. Not only are the 
 graphics improved over the console versions, but you can create a custom radio station from MP3s, 
 and a handy replay feature lets you relive the last 30 seconds or so of stunts and destruction. 
 You can also download user-created content that brings new vehicles, weapons and assorted phenomena 
 to the game.
  
  GTA: San Andreas is possibly the most ambitious game ever attempted, but that doesn't make it great. 
 What does make it great is that it actually delivers on nearly everything it promises while still 
 being fun to just pick up and play. Packed with enough stuff to keep even hardcore gamers busy 
 for months, San Andreas is the ultimate time-waster for those old enough to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Christopher_Yu
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 3, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  GTA has returned on the most widely used console, the PC, and this time it featured a whole state... 
 which is 3 times bigger than Vice City. It's San Andreas!
  
  Storyline: 10/10
  Carl Jackson returned to San Andreas and found that his mother was dead and his gang is declining. 
 With the help of three buddies, Big Smoke, Ryder and Sweet, CJ demand a revenge. The storyline 
 was perfect - filled with excitement, betrayal and twists.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  The reason for the one-mark deduction was because of difficult control of the camera and no auto-aim. 
 Some found no auto-aiming good as you can do headshots better, but I found it frustrating. This 
 game gives you a free camera to control with with your mouse, but I just can't handle it good and 
 it makes me feel dizzy after playing an hour or so.
  
  Value : 10/10
  I would give it 11 if it's available. It simply took you 3 months to finish off everything and 
 beat the game 100%. You will never feel bored in this game: Do missions, play stunts, go for a 
 rampage, or even killing random people.
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  I was stunned when I see CJ the first time. His muscles on his arms are made up of flat triangle. 
 Imagine that! The graphic for everything is OK but not for people.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  The sound in GTA were made up of two things: effects and speeches. The gunshots, police car screeching 
 and spraying graffiti effects are good. But the speech was simply filled with profanity. There 
 are so many of them in a single hour that sometimes I will turn the speakers off. The voice-acting 
 was good though.
  
  Overall: 9/10
  A great game that you must play before you die. Just make sure that you were a adult. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neeraj_dhole
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 2, 2006 6:24 am PT
Review:  I have been playing this game for the last 6 to 7 months and i have completed all the missions 
 .i find this game interesting and
  real ,but there were times when i felt that game was boring . This game has good graphics. I like 
 the cars, but some r ****
  they move like snails . The missions r interesting and never like to leave one incomplete. The 
 missions are not so hard but sometimes u can get stuck on some missions. It is a lot of fun going 
 out with girlfriends, playing basketball or pool and going to the casinos. The sports cars in this 
 game r speedy and have very good handling . This game has someglitches ,like if u save ur game 
 at Madd Dog's mansion then u can never find a basketball in the basketball court. The game would 
 hav become better if it had a multiplayer option. But at the end of the day the game rocks............ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RatedA
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 26, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Well this is the ultimate GTA game, San Andreas, there is not much to say, only too much to do. 
 Ranging from driving cabbies to gambling to gang wars to pimping, if you haven't played this game 
 then you haven't played Grand Theft Auto. The graphics aren't the best but that doesn't change 
 the fact that San Andreas OWNS. The only catch is the fact that the PC version has some uncomfortable 
 controls and has a little lag if your computer isn't super fast. But once you get used to it its 
 not much to worry about. The missions range from easy to kinda impossible but thats what the fun 
 side stuff is for, even if you get stuck there are just SO much to do in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2006 4:11 am PT
Review:  Grand theft auto san Andreas is a very good game and it should be played by people who like blowing 
 up cars and killing a lot of other people. The game is made by Rock-star and they are the ones 
 that made vice city Well san Andreas is a very good game and should be played by people who love 
 killing the people on the game and blowing up cars and taking the owners money. Graphics The graphics 
 in this game are perfect in every way and they bring out the real fighting way when you are in 
 the middle of a gun battle and you think that you are really there and the cars and other vehicles 
 in the game as well are perfect. Sound The sound in this game are perfect as well and the sound 
 also the real way to fight with guns as I said before it seems like you are there in the middle 
 of it all there are no problems with the sound and when you are in a car you can really hear the 
 engine rev up, Oh yes also when you are in the fighter jet the Spawn Hydra you have to turn down 
 your speakers or turn them up if you want because the Hydras engine is very loud and with the 
 radio in the back ground you can not hear anything so I recommend you turn your speakers down when 
 you have this plane.
  
  Game play The game play makes you play on when you have completed a mission and the whole game 
 is about CJS life and how he has to get respect back, In this game you also have girl friends 
 and you have to go out with them and in the end when you have dated the 100% you get a little something 
 from them But I will not tell you what that is I will let you find out for your selves. In other 
 words this game is perfect and I recommend that you buy this game and play it. The best machine 
 to play this on is the pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dixiee
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  San Andreas is amazing. Everything about it is amazing. The game will never get old or boring to 
 you. You will just always love San Andreas. If I could have one game out of my collection it would 
 be San Andreas. The storyline in the game is really good and it really has a good feel to it. Just 
 driving around in this game is fun! Listening to the games great soundtrack, or your own personal 
 collection of music as one of the radio stations. You can also customise your characters vehicle 
 and personal appearance extensively. On the cars you can put on bumpers, wheels, side skirts, hydraulics, 
 hood scoops, and even nitrous. For your character's personal appearance you can go to the barber 
 shop to get hair cuts, a tattoo parlor to get tattoo's, and a variety of clothing shops. You can 
 also go to restaurants, and fast food places to eat. To get around the three cities in the game, 
 Los Santos (Los Angeles) , San Fierro (San Fransisco) , and Las Venturas (Las Vegas) . You can board 
 or steal a freight or passenger train, a commercial airliner, boat, bike, or by car or truck. There 
 is Also a desert and country land. There are many guns and vehicles it the game. There are also 
 many homes, buildings and properties you can own including your very own airstrip. You can drive 
 any vehicle you see in the game and there are no places you see that you cant go. You can also 
 swim and dive and play basketball at basketball courts. There are also many minigames in this game 
 including other games. You can go to nightclubs and bars. You can also fly a harrier jet in this 
 game which I think is pretty awsome. Do not let yourself miss out on this game! Get the it, right 
 away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamestars
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 22, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  The follow-up to Grand Theft Auto III and Grand Theft Auto: Vice City. This time around, developer 
 Rockstar North and publisher Rockstar draw upon a conceptual style reminiscent of the popular 1990s 
 gangsta films like Boyz in the Hood and Juice. Five years ago Carl Johnson escaped from the pressures 
 of life in Los Santos, San Andreas -- a city tearing itself apart with gang trouble, drugs and 
 corruption. Now, it's the early '90s. Carl's got to go home. His mother has been murdered, his 
 family has fallen apart and his childhood friends are all heading towards disaster. On his return 
 to the neighborhood, a couple of corrupt cops frame him for homicide. CJ is forced on a journey 
 that takes him across the entire state of San Andreas, to save his family and to take control of 
 the streets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ears1991
Rating: 7.9
Date: Nov 19, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  San Andreas, 3 huge islands with plenty of vehicles to have fun with.
  This game offers tons of vehicles, along with some (rather tacky) vehicle modding (but still nevertheless, 
 a nice addition) you can completely customize your character (CJ) which is a nice way to waste 
 some time + money, hundreds of story missions and side missions to keep you going for hours, more 
 hidden package style things (if you don't find that boring) but one of the coolest things exclusive 
 to the pc version is the modding, sites like www. gtagaming. com offer thousands of vehicle, map 
 weapon and other mods for the pc version which make it more interesting. Although the story is 
 quite a let down dude to the pointlessness of the majority of it, its still a good game in my opinion. 
 Worth the money you can get it for now like &pound;15-20 and plenty of stuff to do. Free roaming 
 is great when you have access to things like the jump jet and just go around destroying everything, 
 too much I could write about so thatll do. Graphics are better on pc too anti aliasing, higher 
 screen res etc faster loading....
  Definitely worth the cash now if you don't have it.
  Story is the only thing that lets this game down really : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: szafto
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 13, 2006 6:48 am PT
Review:  Ok, Im going to do a little review on this bad ass game. First of all its the fifth game of the 
 grand theft auto series, but in San Andreas you start out as a gangster called Carl Johnson, but 
 is also called CJ by his homies. He has been living out on the east coast for a long time until 
 his mother got killed by someone, so he drives to the west coast to the beginning city called Los 
 Santos. He meets up with his brother Sweet, and some of his gangstas within Grove Street Families 
 gang to try and clean up the city of all the other rival gangs. Ballas which is theyre number 
 one enemy is a gang primarily by black men. Then there is also, Los santos vagos which is all Hispanic. 
 Varios Los Aztecas, also a Latin gang but deeply aggressive towards the Santos vagos. These are 
 the ones in the first city of SA, I will not tell about the other gangs because thats up to you 
 to find out. The first missions you will be playing from the start is pretty easy, like spray some 
 rival gang tags, learn to shoot, learn to eat, make tattoos, and go to the gym and train your body, 
 also you will after a while have access to clothing stores which you can walk in and look at all 
 the cool clothes that you can buy. A hint is that you should look like youre a member of the Grove 
 Street Families, mostly green. You will also be able to date different girlfriends which if you 
 choose to date them; they could give you cool gifts! When you advance in the story you will be 
 able to gain control over enemy territories, to do a gang war attack three enemy gang members then 
 you will have to fight your way trough the war and voila! The hood is yours. A cool thing you can 
 do in San Andreas which is new from the older series is you can basketball! You can also do a 
 challenge mode which is you have to get in a special spot and try to get a score from a hard angle. 
 Ryder, the funniest guy of your homies, will teach you how to rob other peoples house in the game! 
 Which is basically you break in to someones house and try to get the most expensive stuff out 
 of there and store it in a garage to get all the cash Gta San Andreas graphics is not the best 
 of all time, but hey game play is way more important to me, and it does a pretty darn good job 
 in that section. The sounds, is good, but on the PC it sucks when you get a sound bug, which it 
 will not let you hear anything so you have to exit the game and come back. The length of this game 
 is extremely long, it could take you months to finish it because of so many odd jobs, stunts, 
 races, and much more, so the value of this game is EXTREMELY high!
  Well thats my review of this game, you should pick this game up as soon as possible if you like 
 free roaming games. Im out, later. GROVE STREET -4- LIFE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soni-Street
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2006 5:37 am PT
Review:  I play GTA since GTA 2, maybe that game is the reason I play the series... or maybe it's that Rockstar 
 keeps on making better and better GTAs and that has kept me playing. After GTA was introduced to 
 the world of 3D, I really saw what Rockstar was capable of, converting a game to a different dimension 
 while not just keeping it's playability but... making it even better then ever before. GTA III 
 did that... but yet... there were a lot of things people wanted from a GTA game, to feature location 
 based on real-world, system of recruiting gangsters and... of course a little spice of a RPG. All 
 of this things where featured in the game GTA: San Andreas After purchasing the game, I made myself 
 a little timetable of a things to do list. Because I imidiatly knew that this game can have me 
 glewed to the computer for days (untill the end of the game it's self) . In this game of GTA, you 
 play as Carl Johnson (African-American) A. K. A C. J., You return to Canton (place based on Campton 
 in California) after your mother's death, your homies are not happy to see you, heck not even your 
 brother. You start as someone who's had a lot of rep. in this town but lost it the day you left. 
 Now it's pay back day, you have to work your way up again from ground, make new friends, create 
 the most feared gang in San Andreas. The game's graphics are great, GTA is one of those games that 
 doesn't require state of the art graphics to be so much fun. However the graphics were very good 
 at the time when the game came out. The engine is excellent the game runs perfect even on lower 
 spec. computers. GTA like any other GTA has awesome soundtrack, the radio-like soundtrack to suite 
 anyone, from hip-hop fans to rock and metal. Funny comments on the radio is like the perfect icing 
 on the cake. GTA: San Andreas is a nearly perfect game, that will keep you playing for very long 
 , and it's one of those games that you will still play even after the credits roll, there is so 
 much possibilities in this game you will never run out of ideas. Crashing the airplane in 999 different 
 ways, driving a car around the entire map, making a crime on every step... no end. Rockstar Games, 
 you've done it again! THUMBS UP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doblosky20
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 13, 2006 5:05 am PT
Review:  The PC version you can make awesome modifications to the game. If you don't like the PC because 
 of the keyboard/mouse controls and prefer the Playstation controllers (like me) , you can get an 
 adaptor that lets you hook your Playstation controller up to your PC. You can buy the adaptors 
 at www. consolesource. com. You can download modifications from GTA: SA fan sites and the possibilities 
 are limitless. Get Mig-29's, Lamborghini's, extra islands, changed building apearances, different 
 hair cuts, different tatoos, changed skin color, etc... AMAZING mods, I almost regret even buying 
 the PS2 version at all! I'm quite suprised how the PS2's GTA: SA got higher ratings on this website 
 than it did for PC. Must be rated by people that dont know about the mods....
  
  Oh! And not to forget, on the PS2 you can't put your own tracks on there. Yeah, the original tracks 
 are ultimate classics from Ice-T, Eazy E, MC Ren, Public Enemy, etc. but it gets repetitive and 
 there's other music out there just as good or even nicer (just have to buy/download it) . If you're 
 any good at it and know all the how-to, you can even make your own songs and play them (why not, 
 its all in fun) . Yo that review below mine I STRONGLY STRONGLY disagree with lol.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taino1128
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 18, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, San Andreas is the greatest game of all time, but the PC and Xbox ones have 
 encountered some problems. Obviously, the graphics were improved. And now you can upload music 
 tracks and listen to your own music as a radio station. But those improvements are so minor, no 
 one even cares about them. Us GTA fans can care less about the graphics. The music in the game 
 is so good, that most people would not even want to listen to their own music in it. And a PC problem 
 is that you can't do 2-player. You can only do online multiplayer if you have the V1.0 version. 
 The V1.1 and V2.0 versions you cannot.
  The biggest problem is the controller. All PC games are hard until you become an expert at the 
 game due to the keyboard. It took me almost a month to get completely used to it and to be very 
 good. AND PC doesn't have target lock, only manual aim. And the driving feels very weird. Last 
 but not least, the PC game lags, and a lot. As for the Xbox, the controller is just stupid. The 
 black and white buttons are what really screw up the gameplay because they feel so weird when you 
 use them. Another thing is that the left analog stick and d-pad are in different positions then 
 the PS2 controller.
  Get this game on PS2 if you can. If you only have Xbox and PC, get on Xbox. If you only have PC, 
 then you have no choice but to get on there. Don't get me wrong the game on PC and Xbox doesn't 
 suck, its just more challenging. Price isn't a concern because all 3 are $20, which is cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steven_bergen
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Since bringing out GTA3 back at the turn of the century, Rockstar have been consistently pushing 
 the bar higher in terms of what their rivals must put in a game to keep it up with their offerings. 
 Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is no exception, and in terms of freedom of gameplay this blows everything 
 else out of the water.
  
  Now I don't get as much time to play video games as I used to, but still I am getting in an average 
 of 45 minutes a day. I purchased this game at the end of August, and I still do not have 100% completion. 
 In fact, I only have 85%. This is partly to do with the fact that the storyline missions only make 
 up 50% of the game, and the fact that there is simply so much to do. The story itself has over 
 100 missions for you to complete, and there is a massive range of side missions to do to. Everything 
 from street racing to truck driving to BMX trialing is covered. So, to get to the point, this game 
 is incredible value for money! It cost me only &pound;12 to buy, and I don't think &pound;12 has 
 ever gone further and been better value than this purchase!
  
  Those familiar with the 3D incarnations of Grand Theft Auto will take to SA very quickly. The graphics 
 have not changed significantly, appearing to be a cleaned up version of Vice City. Talking of Vice 
 City, there are a few characters in this game that you may recognise from there, as well as a few 
 familiar faces from GTA3. This adds a lot of continuity to the series and helps to tie in long 
 running plots from the entire GTA universe. By the time that you complete the story of SA you will 
 have a good idea of the motives and reasons for many of GTA characters actions.
  
  In terms of sound, I feel that this is a little bit of a step down from Vice City. The script is 
 well written and has some funny moments, though a lot of VC's dark humour has gone. The radio stations 
 are also more understated, with the exception of the hard rock station K-DST. This station is full 
 of brilliant comedy moments, but mainly serves to highlight the weaknesses of the other stations. 
 The general script also features far more obscenity than previous games, which fully earns the 
 game its 18+ rating.
  
  The other sound issue is in the reliability of the sound itself. The game seems to suffer from 
 random sound glitches that cause the sound to simply cut out completely. In these situations the 
 only solution is to restart the game. There seems to be no explanation for these sound glitches 
 - my machine comfortably meets the recommended system requirements. Thankfully this glitch is not 
 frequent, so doesn't greatly detract from the experience.
  
  As I've said, the game features a wide range of side missions - many of which are new to the series. 
 Perhaps the most obvious of these are the turf wars. While they are not required for 100%, completing 
 them makes your life a lot easier. The premise is that gang controlled territories are split between 
 your gang and two others, and that you must invade rival gangs turf to take it over. The issue 
 is that they will do the same to you unless you can take control of everywhere. Driving through 
 rival gang turf is a risky business as you will find that your rivals will shoot at you/your car 
 when you enter. Needless to say, eliminating the opposition makes life a lot easier! Another neat 
 new addition is the ability to swim. Finally no more death when your characters touch water! The 
 swimming works very well and is used to good effect in a few missions.
  
  The story of SA is long and detailed. You play as a character named Carl Johnson, who is returning 
 to San Andreas for his mother's funeral after five years in Liberty City. He soon learns that his 
 homies have fallen on hard times and that control of the city lies in the hands of a corrupt police 
 officer. It is up to you to help Carl get his 'hood back together and take control of the State.
 
  
  Now I use the word State wisely, as unlike previous GTA's San Andreas comprises more than one city. 
 In fact it is made up of three, separated by expansive countryside featuring numerous small villages. 
 Driving across the entire map can easily take 15 to 20 minutes! Each city is based on a real US 
 city (Los Angeles, San Francisco and Las Vegas) , and the land separating them ranges from remote 
 countryside to desert and even features a mountain. The size of the map definitely complements 
 the size of the storyline and adds to the epic feel of the game.
  
  The difficulty level of the game is quite a mixed bag. For the most part the missions are not especially 
 challenging, however there are a few highly frustrating and difficult ones. On the whole, it is 
 easier that Vice City and GTA3. Some missions do comprise multiple parts and can take a long while. 
 These are particularly frustrating when you fail the mission in the latter parts! Of course, these 
 long missions do bring with them a great sense of achievement when you defeat them. The game is 
 really worth playing though as some of the missions are GTA classics - the sort of missions that 
 you will remember when you think of favourite gaming moments of all time!
  
  The controls are very similar to previous GTA games. This is fine for the use of all land or water 
 based transportation, however it is a shame that the aircraft controls still haven't been fixed. 
 Needless to say, most of the aforementioned difficult missions involve flying. Hopefully these 
 controls will be fixed by the next PC GTA game.
  
  So to sum up, this is a fine addition to the Grand Theft Auto series, and a must own for gaming 
 fans. There are definitely weaknesses with the script, with audio problems, and with the controls, 
 however the game has so many positives that these can be overlooked. The story is fantastic and 
 ties together many over-arching stories from the rest of the series, the game world is huge - featuring 
 vastly different and beautifully detailed areas, and there is just so much to do in the game outside 
 of the large main story that the game will keep you occupied for a long, long time! While the adult 
 humour has been turned down for this game, their is a sharp rise in the amount of profanity used, 
 which means that the game is deserving of its 18+ rating. I think that the profanity could have 
 been turned down a lot so that the game would be more readily available to all ages. On the whole 
 though it is a fantastic game that would sit proudly in anyone's collection. I highly recommend 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lethalscorpion
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  i&acute; ve had a chance to play this game a few times .this is like going to theater watching your 
 favorite movie, i love san andreas for the cutscenes , samuel l. jackson and the game also did 
 voice acting for the game .
  i really love the style , missions are all thrilling , pure adrenaline ,&acute;
  
  i&acute; m 
 telling ya , you just can&acute; t get off the computer no more , you don&acute; t wanna go to school, 
 to work , to watch tv , cuz this game is your 2nd home , you buy real estate in san andreas , you 
 go to rsstaurants in san andreas , you go to casinos in san andreas , you go to night clubs in 
 san andreas , you fly helicopters in san andreas , you change clothes in san andreas , you make 
 money in san andreas , you go out on a date in san andreas , you swim in the ocean in san andreas 
 , you sky dive in san andreas , YOU FREAKIN LIVE IN SAN ANDREAS !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Semboy1212
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  I am a HUGE fan of GTA: San Andreas! It is incredible, fantastic and amazing! I play it everyday 
 and I have beaten the game 3 times in 3 months! I played like all the time! Everything in GTA: 
 San Andreas is perfect and the missions is great! It can be a little hard but it is still fun to 
 play! I think that the hardest mission is I think the name is Freefall but I am not sure........................ 
 anyway you need too get close to a plane and jump to it before it gets to Las Venturas and the 
 rest is easy but the plane is just too fast! But you can do it and succeed if you just try all 
 the time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 1, 2006 7:02 am PT
Review:  All right, there has been produced a lot of Grand Theft Auto games in the decade, and in most cases; 
 they're good... they're VERY good! San Andreas isn't an outcast in the series. Actually, it's arguably 
 the best game in the series. And you thought that Vice City was great? Well my friends, then you'll 
 have to try this out. It's a revolutionary game that shouldn't be missed at all cost! You play 
 as Carl CJ Johnson, who's just got home from Liberty City back to San Andreas. His mom is just 
 recently killed and the first minutes he's in San Andreas the cops stop him and he is kicked out 
 on the street, forcing him to live the life he used to. At Grove Street, his homies and brother 
 is trying to get the gang back on top as they were 5 years ago and of course he wants to find out 
 who killed his mom.
  Representing the 'hood never felt this damn good!
  
  The gameplay is just as you know it, only with a few changes. The camera function is remarkably 
 changed, to a sort of freeform angle. You can turn the camera anywhere you want, without having 
 it stuck behind the character, like a normal third-person game. The freeform camera can get awfully 
 annoying sometimes, but in fact it's a very powerful tool, and you're gonna need it in San Andreas.
 
  New weapons are introduced in the game; such as the AK-47, hunting rifle, sawn-off shotgun, silenced 
 pistol, satchel packs and much more. The shooting system has changed a bit too and this is actually 
 a bad thing in my opinion. When you are walking around a crosshair is usually in the centre of 
 the screen. Well, in San Andreas it isn't. You have to hold down RMB to get the crosshair showing 
 and then you can shoot accurate. You can shoot without holding down RMB, but you're just shooting 
 everything else, then you're supposed to. This is clumsy, and you'll quickly end up being dead 
 in most situations, so try to learn how to use it fast.
  The city of San Andreas is huge, Im saying freakin huge! This is some change compared to Vice 
 City. It can take lots of minutes to drive around San Andreas. Its actually taking me back to 
 my Mafia days. San Andreas is split up into 4 major areas. Los Santos, The Countryside, San Fierro 
 and Las Venturas. All these areas are really big and can be very confusing to drive around in.
 
  One thing that clearly makes San Andreas really special, is that you know have to look out for 
 your character. This means you have to make him eat, exercise, getting new haircuts and buying 
 new clothes. It creates a sort of The Sims thing in the game. You can buy a lot of clothes, and 
 change it whenever you like in your wardrobe. You can also learn new fighting moves and so much 
 more, making your Carl Johnson a real bad ass motherf*****! The graphics hasnt changed much over 
 the past years in the GTA games, although in my opinion GTA 3 really sucks. Vice City was a bit 
 unpolished and San Andreas still needs a bit more to it. But anyways the cutscenes is really good 
 and hilarious. The character models looks great, and they always have. The surrounding details 
 are also very remarkable, the buildings and environments looks absolutely stunning, for a GTA game. 
 Although everything on the ground looks good, the skies could have been better. While in the air, 
 youre surrounded by 2D clouds. Awful.
  The vehicles models arent a whole lot better than in Vice City. Actually, theres less focus on 
 the vehicles in San Andreas. The cars look boring and not that interesting, although theres a 
 few more sports cars. The airplane and helicopter models are also quite nice, since you use them 
 more often than in the previous games.
  
  The sound overall is good, but there are a few minor problems. The weapons sounds are awful in 
 San Andreas compared to Vice City, they all sound the same to me. The explosions hasnt changed 
 a bit and the cars the same.
  The game dialogue is awesome in San Andreas, way bigger than a movie script. The characters are 
 voiced by some familiar people (Officer Tenpenny = Samuel L. Jackson) , and your homies is really 
 creating this gangsta attitude for themselves, by their way of speaking.
  Grand Theft Auto San Andreas is once again ready to present a whole new soundtrack in the different 
 radio stations, you will hear while in a vehicle. Theres everything from country music to hard 
 rock. But anyways, this soundtrack could have been a lot better. Is this the music we think of 
 while thinking of the good old 90s? Its not in my opinion. Its good, dont get me wrong here, 
 but it could have been a lot better. The value. Not the most memorable thing in San Andreas, but 
 its actually quite good. Youll have a lot of fun playing San Andreas, even after finishing the 
 missions. Theres still a lot to do in the city of San Andreas; like completing mini games, competitions 
 and races. There are hundreds of hours of gameplay in store for you, if you buy this game. The 
 money is worth it trust me on that.
  
  Overall, Grand Theft Auto San Andreas is arguably the best game in the series. Its absolutely 
 an outstanding production in a stunning game series. It can be highly recommended to everybody, 
 who likes a good driving, shooting, beat em up game. Now were just waiting for the next game 
 :)
  
  Sincerely Dope999 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Black_Blade7
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 23, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  This game has me addicted like if it was a drug. The whole story itself is just amazing. The gameplay 
 is very creative and I love the new features such as jumping over fences and climbing over walls. 
 When your stressed from work or if you just had a bad day, its always fun to run over a few people 
 on the streets when you enter GTA: SA. Takes a lot of stress out of you as you will never know 
 what may happen, who will die, and also your doing everything and anything that you want to do. 
 There is no wrong doing (unless you bring it to reality then its just plain dangerous) .
  
  The only bad thing is in the third GTA, there were car alarms which made it more realistic, in 
 this GTA: SA, there are no car alarms what so ever. Its not a bother really but it is placed in 
 the 1990's and car alarms were invented. But that is probably the only MINOR disappointment (well, 
 not even a disappointment as it doesn't bother me) of the game but everything else is just plain 
 awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 21, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  Since bringing out GTA3 back at the turn of the century, Rockstar have been consistently pushing 
 the bar higher in terms of what their rivals must put in a game to keep it up with their offerings. 
 Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is no exception, and in terms of freedom of gameplay this blows everything 
 else out of the water.
  
  Now I don't get as much time to play video games as I used to, but still I am getting in an average 
 of 45 minutes a day. I purchased this game at the end of August, and I still do not have 100% completion. 
 In fact, I only have 85%. This is partly to do with the fact that the storyline missions only make 
 up 50% of the game, and the fact that there is simply so much to do. The story itself has over 
 100 missions for you to complete, and there is a massive range of side missions to do to. Everything 
 from street racing to truck driving to BMX trialing is covered. So, to get to the point, this game 
 is incredible value for money! It cost me only &pound;12 to buy, and I don't think &pound;12 has 
 ever gone further and been better value than this purchase!
  
  Those familiar with the 3D incarnations of Grand Theft Auto will take to SA very quickly. The graphics 
 have not changed significantly, appearing to be a cleaned up version of Vice City. Talking of Vice 
 City, there are a few characters in this game that you may recognise from there, as well as a few 
 familiar faces from GTA3. This adds a lot of continuity to the series and helps to tie in long 
 running plots from the entire GTA universe. By the time that you complete the story of SA you will 
 have a good idea of the motives and reasons for many of GTA characters actions.
  
  In terms of sound, I feel that this is a little bit of a step down from Vice City. The script is 
 well written and has some funny moments, though a lot of VC's dark humour has gone. The radio stations 
 are also more understated, with the exception of the hard rock station K-DST. This station is full 
 of brilliant comedy moments, but mainly serves to highlight the weaknesses of the other stations. 
 The general script also features far more obscenity than previous games, which fully earns the 
 game its 18+ rating.
  
  The other sound issue is in the reliability of the sound itself. The game seems to suffer from 
 random sound glitches that cause the sound to simply cut out completely. In these situations the 
 only solution is to restart the game. There seems to be no explanation for these sound glitches 
 - my machine comfortably meets the recommended system requirements. Thankfully this glitch is not 
 frequent, so doesn't greatly detract from the experience.
  
  As I've said, the game features a wide range of side missions - many of which are new to the series. 
 Perhaps the most obvious of these are the turf wars. While they are not required for 100%, completing 
 them makes your life a lot easier. The premise is that gang controlled territories are split between 
 your gang and two others, and that you must invade rival gangs turf to take it over. The issue 
 is that they will do the same to you unless you can take control of everywhere. Driving through 
 rival gang turf is a risky business as you will find that your rivals will shoot at you/your car 
 when you enter. Needless to say, eliminating the opposition makes life a lot easier! Another neat 
 new addition is the ability to swim. Finally no more death when your characters touch water! The 
 swimming works very well and is used to good effect in a few missions.
  
  The story of SA is long and detailed. You play as a character named Carl Johnson, who is returning 
 to San Andreas for his mother's funeral after five years in Liberty City. He soon learns that his 
 homies have fallen on hard times and that control of the city lies in the hands of a corrupt police 
 officer. It is up to you to help Carl get his 'hood back together and take control of the State.
 
  
  Now I use the word State wisely, as unlike previous GTA's San Andreas comprises more than one city. 
 In fact it is made up of three, separated by expansive countryside featuring numerous small villages. 
 Driving across the entire map can easily take 15 to 20 minutes! Each city is based on a real US 
 city (Los Angeles, San Francisco and Las Vegas) , and the land separating them ranges from remote 
 countryside to desert and even features a mountain. The size of the map definitely complements 
 the size of the storyline and adds to the epic feel of the game.
  
  The difficulty level of the game is quite a mixed bag. For the most part the missions are not especially 
 challenging, however there are a few highly frustrating and difficult ones. On the whole, it is 
 easier that Vice City and GTA3. Some missions do comprise multiple parts and can take a long while. 
 These are particularly frustrating when you fail the mission in the latter parts! Of course, these 
 long missions do bring with them a great sense of achievement when you defeat them. The game is 
 really worth playing though as some of the missions are GTA classics - the sort of missions that 
 you will remember when you think of favourite gaming moments of all time!
  
  The controls are very similar to previous GTA games. This is fine for the use of all land or water 
 based transportation, however it is a shame that the aircraft controls still haven't been fixed. 
 Needless to say, most of the aforementioned difficult missions involve flying. Hopefully these 
 controls will be fixed by the next PC GTA game.
  
  So to sum up, this is a fine addition to the Grand Theft Auto series, and a must own for gaming 
 fans. There are definitely weaknesses with the script, with audio problems, and with the controls, 
 however the game has so many positives that these can be overlooked. The story is fantastic and 
 ties together many over-arching stories from the rest of the series, the game world is huge - featuring 
 vastly different and beautifully detailed areas, and there is just so much to do in the game outside 
 of the large main story that the game will keep you occupied for a long, long time! While the adult 
 humour has been turned down for this game, their is a sharp rise in the amount of profanity used, 
 which means that the game is deserving of its 18+ rating. I think that the profanity could have 
 been turned down a lot so that the game would be more readily available to all ages. On the whole 
 though it is a fantastic game that would sit proudly in anyone's collection. I highly recommend 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_returns29
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 16, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is an absolutely fantastic game. From start to end, San Andreas will 
 always keep you entertained and happy.
  
  If you don't know, the main aspect of San Andreas is about completing missions for people in the 
 state of San Andreas. All different people that you meet along the way will give you different 
 tasks to complete, wether it may be stealing cars, killing people, driving somewhere or racing. 
 When you have completed a mission, you will be rewarded with money and respect. Money can buy you 
 all different things such as guns, clothes, food and tattoos.
  
  Of course San Andreas isn't all about completing missions; it's also great because of free will. 
 You can do anything you want at any time around the whole state of San Andreas, making the game 
 very fun. It is great exploring the whole state finding all different places and things.
  
  All up, GTA: San Andreas should not be missed by anyone, as it is one of the best video game experiences 
 you could ever have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bpmf
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 10, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Gta San Andreas...... the most realistic and most coolest youll ever play.
  
  only after 2 years of hard work san andreas have completed and it has so many choices that it seems 
 like it developed for 5 years.
  this game is one of gta series: a famous rpg game that has a great story that includes crime; gangs; 
 sex; and family. just that this game is the best because itsnot like gta 1 or 2 {thats for sure} 
 its akmost like 3 and vice city but int his game is different well for start his black not like 
 the other games.
  another thing this game is longer and cooler than the others.
  and this game has a diffrent more interesting story.
  in this game its more about family and 
 friends from the past.
  this game has so many choises like: tattoes and haircuts.
  in this game youll have also different jobs from a pimp to a car racer.
  int his game youll get 
 into troubles by the police gangs etc.
  
  ------story -------:
  carl johnson or c. j is a young man from LOS SANTOS; after five years that he have been in LIBARTY 
 CITY and finds out that his friend think of him as a coword that ran away ; his mom got kill and 
 his gang that was strong before is now a weak powerless gang that doesnt have any effect on the 
 city. the first mision that are given to you are from youre friends from sparying on other gangs 
 sprays to doing drive by's. later carl will have to leave LOS SANTOS so he could get away from the 
 gangs war for a while. he will meet many different characters that can be a friend a enemy or some 
 times a lover. maybe when youll finish the game youll finish in 50% thats because there many other 
 things that you can do and you didnt.
  the mision in the game will change as the story will.
  there also many cool jobs like roobing 
 a house and of course like always the ambulans taxi and police missions.
  in this game you can change carl.
  in san andreas for a change youll have a bicycle and you can 
 padle but only for a short time but this will train you and you will raise your riding skill and 
 level up your running skill.
  you can also change your driving skills and it will allow you a better driving and control on your 
 car.
  you can also raise your shooting skill and it will allow you a short range or shooting with two 
 pistols or uzis.
  some of carls misions will not give you money but will raise your respect and themuch youll raise 
 your respect the more respect youll get from your gang and people. and your gang will get stronger.
 
  you can also raise your muscles and stamina skills in the gym.
  because your look will effect others.
  you can also eat in different resturants and dinning places 
 but you dont need to eat that much because you can get fat and if youll get fat this will effevt 
 for bad in your running and fighting skills but mostlly sometimes you can get a heart attack.
 
  
  ----graphics ----:
  a great graphics that show everything amazing every single little detail os shown perfectly and 
 you can tell also by the places and view and the great surrounding area.
  
  ----controls ----:
  the controls are very easy to control the keys are almost the same as the 
 other gta games well there is many new things so there are new controls but it still easy and comfertable 
 to use.
  
  ----voices ----:
  the game have a great voices from nay celebretis and famous people like office timberlake that 
 have the voice of SAMUEL. L JACKSON.
  
  so finnaly i can only say that this game changes the gaming world for real.
  and its a great 
 game to play i hardly reccomen this game if you have to i recoomend to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyrulianpriest
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 27, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  like i said i would go round and say that there was no point buying a GTA game as i had a particularly 
 bad experience with the first GTA when i was younger. (i won't go into detail) but i thought i 
 might aswell take a risk and o i bought the pc version on the day it game out and my god am i glad 
 i did the game is a blast. even when the story mode is finished the game has continuality value 
 in that you can just keep on playing, it's great to just drive around and driveby people especially 
 with mates. and now with multiplayer it's much better, altogether great, one of the best buys of 
 my life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acurban
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2006 12:50 am PT
Review:  I am a great fan of the free style walk around games like GTA, the Godfather etc. I dont always 
 have a lot of time to dedicate to straight game play. I love the fact that this game has so many 
 things to do that you do a task and save and quit. Anyone who doesnt like these games hasn't given 
 them a fair chance. I say TRY IT. YOU'LL LIKE IT The GTA franchise is definitely one of the best 
 of these action games. I love the challenge of the game. you cannot be bored in it. Even if you 
 are just gaining stamina or stregth, you can have fun. I highly recommend to all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lamx30108200
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 25, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  This game is just unbelievable, you can do what ever you want in a map 3 cities wide!!! Ride bikes, 
 cars, boats, helis, planes, jets, jet packs, tanks, killing people with M-4, AKs, shotguns, rocket 
 launcher, desert eagle, golf club, baseball **** You can base jump, get hair cuts, get tattoos, 
 clothes, girlfriends, play at the casino, go to the gym... etc, etc, etc.....
  
  Think about something you can do in a city and in GTA: SA, you probably can do it to.... but without 
 getting yourself killed or arrested.
  
  And when i'm saying the game is huge I really mean it in every sens of the word, the main game 
 takes about 40-50 hours to complete, then, you have all the side mission (races, girlfriends.. etc) 
 and odd jobs (taxi driver, pimp, policeman, fireman... etc) which can add an other 50+ hours to 
 complete. For the map itself, it's 3 cities big and to get a feeling of how big it is, it took 
 me around 25 real minutes to get from 1 city (Los Santos, ganton) to the next one (San Fierro, 
 garcia) by bicycle !!!!!!!! There's so much to do in this game that i probably put many hours wandering 
 around in the cities doing no progress at all in the main mission. For the graphics, imo, they 
 are not good at all (even everything maxed out) ... since i'm used to first person shooters, GTA 
 graphics could'nt challenged with those i'm used to.
  
  Sound = perfect voice acting, awesome soundtrack but ugly sound effects (gunshots particularly)
 
  
  Overall, one of the greatest game i've ever played and any kind of fan you are (RTS, FPS, RPG, 
 sims.. etc) YOU MUST give this game a try.
  
  My specs:
  
  P4 HT 3,4ghz
  2 gig RAM
  ATI radeon X850XT PE
  Sound blaster Audigy 2 ZS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heebiejeebieclu
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 25, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas; the third in a series of 3D modern-day adventure titles, was eagerly 
 anticipated but well worth the wait. There is so much to find amazing about the game: - I love 
 the big increase from predecessor Vice City in the amount of things available to do: want to go 
 to nightclubs and dance the night away? Do it. Want to gamble all your money at some casino? Do 
 it. Want to parachute off jumbo jets or massive skyscrapers? Do it. Want to drive pimps around 
 and beat up clients who aren't respectful? The list is endless. The series is slowly increasing 
 to the extent that by the next couple of releases, you will truly be able to do what you want. 
 An amazing feature of the game that is disabled during most of the storyline missions for ease, 
 and is exciting to unlock near the end, is the ability to engage in turf war with neighbouring 
 gangs and control as much or as little of the city as you want. Connected with the gang feature 
 of the game is the really cool ability to recruit homies and have them protect you like bodyguards 
 - they will get into the passenger seats of any car you drive, and will perform drive-by shootings 
 at any enemy meeting or vehicle.
  But the thing I simply love the most about the game is the storyline. 70+ missions make sure you're 
 really involved in the well-written plot which often catches you in your thoughts in a daydream 
 or even a dream. Almost every mission contributes to the bigger picture, and you have moments of 
 frustration, happiness, and sadness as the plot develops with you right at the centre.
  These kind of things will ensure addiction, and that every moment you spend playing this game; 
 whether it be a storyline mission, roaming around the city completing oddjobs, or defending your 
 territory after defending the game is a really enjoyable one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmarJ
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 24, 2006 10:15 pm PT
Review:  No way can anyone complete a review on a note this small. This game's biiiiig, brilliant, superb and 
 well fu... ing. You run in the shoes of an ex-convict namely Carl Johnson. Run through the game slowly 
 and you will feel it's splendour. There are loads of missions to be completed, tags to be collected, stunts 
 to be done and girlfriends to be dated. The unique GTA style gameplay follows suit. The game has 
 the best storyline and a fascinating ending. The graphics have been improved though not the best. The 
 radio stations have just got more rocking. Lots more have been added into vehicles. You will find 
 a no. of rad bikes in the game. Modelling of cars has also been enabled. The characters are memorable, the 
 girls are great. The free roam has plenty to even to start a simulation game. Also, your character 
 is what you make it. Dress him up, do his hair, tattoo him up, make him skinny, muscular or fat, it's 
 all up to you. It's so great. How can you say no? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziegd
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 28, 2006 11:37 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: huge game world; tons of new content; lots of challenges; excellent characters; hilarious 
 parodies of real-life that are the trademark of the GTA series.
  THE BAD: combat sequences are way too easy; some of the objectives and challenges seem rather pointless, 
 and can be frustratingly difficult to complete.
  THE UGLY: exorbitant use of profanity; required to murder innocent victims in a couple of missions.
 
  
  With their newest release, Rockstar and Take Two have once again raised the bar for their flagship 
 series, Grand Theft Auto. The new content is too extensive to cover here, but suffice it to say 
 that your character, CJ, can now eat regular meals, work out at the local gym, choose his wardrobe, 
 trick out his cars, and wine-and-dine the ladies. Combining these aspects with the traditional 
 core element of stealing cool cars and driving them very fast results in making San Andreas even 
 more immersive and fun to play than any previous GTA game. The player will meet some fascinating 
 new characters, as well as encounter some old friends, all of who are superbly voiced by stars 
 like Samuel Jackson, James Woods, Chris Penn, and many others too numerous to list. And of course, 
 it wouldnt be GTA without the hilariously inane snippets of dialogue picked up from the man-on-the-street. 
 Picking a fistfight with just about any passer-by will usually result in a string of threats that 
 will give the player some real belly laughs.
  
  Still, as my 107 year old granny taught me, theres always room for improvement, and I have some 
 observations to offer up in the spirit of constructive criticism. For one thing, I have always 
 found the combat sequences in the GTA series to be a bit weak. Fire fights in the missions are 
 just too easily won to qualify as true shooter caliber, and I personally would like to see these 
 sequences beefed up a bit. On another note, I feel that, for the most part, the new objectives 
 and challenges are extremely fun, and contribute nicely to the over-all scope of the game. There 
 are a few, however, that I could easily do without. These range from irrelevant, tiresome objectives, 
 like collecting oysters (whats THAT all about?) , to maddeningly difficult challenges like the 
 NRG 500 Challenge (why on EARTH do I need to be able to jump a motorcycle insanely high multiple 
 times in a brief period?) . Still, this is a pretty minor gripe, given the exceptional quality of 
 the majority of the new content.
  
  Finally, I couldnt conclude my review of GTA: San Andreas with out pulling out my soapbox and 
 writing a little bit about The Ugly. Im not talking about the Hot Coffee fiasco, since anyone 
 who has seen the crude, cartoon-ish rendition of sex in that silly little mini-game knows the controversy 
 was blown way out of proportion (Besides, thats a subject more appropriate for a forum or blog 
 post.) But there are a couple of aspects of the game that I feel could be changed to make for a 
 more enjoyable experience, and at the same time, help Rockstar and Take Two reduce the amount of 
 flak they take from the so-called moral majority. My first idea, which is not unique to GTA, 
 is to reduce the pervasive use of profanity. Now, before you label me a prude, understand that 
 I am not offended by the constant use of the f-bombsI simply find it tiresome. For example, all 
 the missions involving Catalina are complex and engaging enough that they should be FUN. But personally, 
 I found the character of Catalina to be so abrasive and foul-mouthed, I dreaded having anything 
 to do with her. Why the hell CJ would ever show up at her dumpy little white-trash cabin is beyond 
 me.
  
  My second idea is to eliminate the need to kill innocent people. To their credit, the developers 
 of San Andreas have provided the option for CJ to utilize stealth to complete some of the missions 
 involving innocent guards, there-by reducing the body count to zero. For example, in Madd Doggs 
 Rhymes, getting in and stealing the book undetected is a challenge worthy of Sam Fisher, and successfully 
 completing the mission with no collateral damage is much more satisfying than simply murdering 
 Madd Doggs entourage. In other missions, unfortunately, there is no such option. In Robbing Uncle 
 Sam, CJ is tasked with stealing weapons from a National Guard Armory, and he has no choice but 
 to gun down the hapless soldiers foolish enough to try and stop him.
  
  Personally, I found this a little distasteful, maybe because of our current situation in Iraq, 
 and the fact that the majority of our troops there are, in fact, National Guardsmen. So before 
 anyone starts yammering about its only a game, I want to say that I KNOW THAT, but Id also 
 ask you to consider whether a player with a brother, or sister, or father, or even a son posted 
 in Iraq would find that particular mission as entertaining as the rest. I know I didnt, so regardless 
 of any of the moral implications in my suggestion, Im simply saying that the option to complete 
 the objectives without extraneous casualties would probably result in a more satisfying gaming 
 experience for a lot of players. And it sure couldnt hurt the developers reputation any. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoP999606
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 22, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  4 years after the relese of GTA III 3 years after the relese of Vice City in 2005 we have a game 
 that tries to be as good as it's predecesors and the good newes is that it succedes. San Andreas 
 changed the series a lot meaning that it has a lot more stuff than it's predecesors. Where should 
 I start the gameplay, the story? Ah yes the cityes. First San Andreas isn't a city it's a whole 
 state and it has 3 cityes in it Los Antos is the city you start of in (every city unlocks as you 
 progres through the game) that's modeled after Los Angeles. A nother city is San Fiero modeled 
 after San Fransisco and Las Venturas is modeled after Las Vegas. All these cityes are big and each 
 one has it's one feel. But personaly I still think Vice City is the best, mayby because I like 
 the Miami look but mostly because each city in San Andreas is diferent from one another there they 
 are not so diverse within' unlike Vice City each city is the same within, each naybourghood is 
 the same everywere so even thow you get 3 completly difrent cityes from one another their not as 
 big within. And to tigh up the cityes together you get countrey sides that are realy cool.
  Now the story, in SA you play Cj a gangster that has been in Liberty City for the past few years 
 but has returned because he haerd that realy bad stuff happened while he was gone. As you go throw 
 the main story you find all kinds of wiered and memorabyle carachters and just the main storyline 
 is full of twists and turnes. But the story can geta little unrialistic I mean c'mon your a gangster 
 nota super soldier to jump of airplanes (wich is realy fun though) . But actualy the unrealism makes 
 this game's story stand out.
  The sound and the graphichs. Well of cource their both realy raely great. The graphichs have improved 
 making the lights of Las Venturas look great but the sound isn't as good as Vice City, and by that 
 I mean the music (the voice acting is still graet if you were waried) . Because the story happens 
 in 1992 you don't get the same great sounds of the 80's but the sound is still very good now each 
 car or motorcycle gets it's own engine roar and personaly I put my own music in the game so I still 
 think it's realy good.
  Now we get tho the thing that made this game tick ... the gameplay.
  First the things that havn't changed much mainly yhe shooting and the driving (only the driving 
 the flight mecanycs have changed a lot) . You can still shot anybody take any vehicle like in the 
 previous ones but now there are a lot more vehicles to hyjack, more cars more motorcycle and air 
 vehicls and not only helycopters but real airplains. And as I said above the flight has changed 
 meening taht is has become a litle mor complicated to some it can be frustraiting but for others 
 a lot more realistic but it's still a one-of-a-kind experience. and now the thing that makes this 
 game stand out from the others is it's ability to costimaze your character and not just phisicly. 
 Phisicly you can change his clothes and hair in dozens of ways and make him look as you want unlike 
 in Vice City were were you had only a phew outfits.
  Exept phisicly you can make your character a lot more respected stronger faster and in any way 
 better that you do by practicing and doing missions.
  And in the end Sa is all I have been expecting and more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haky2
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2006 5:38 am PT
Review:  GTA San Andreas is a King in his style. It has no opponents, simply GTA is the BEST. This game 
 has no end. You can finish the story-line, but after that the game dont ends. You can do everything-EVERYTHING 
 you want. You can race with cars, bikes, in the air, on the wather. You can eat, drink, get a girlfriend, 
 make tatoo, change clothes, go to fitnes club, learn new fighting  
 game has no end, if you want to go everywhere on the map and try everything, reach the max level 
 everywhere, you will play this game for years. Great game for everyone. Oh I forgot, the soundtrack 
 is great, and if you didnt like it, you can play your own music in this game. Well Done ROCKSTAR 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmiquila
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 18, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  When I played GTA: Vice City back in 2002, I though Rockstar have reached the climax of this type 
 of games, only to be proved wrong when I decided to give a try to GTA San Andreas. This game is 
 like Vice City but nicer, longer, biggest and improved. The best word to describe is MASSIVE
  
  Everything is great in this game: the storyline, the characters, the dialogs the variety and 
 endless fun of the side missions, the multiple choices of vehicles, the dark humor. Rockstar took 
 such a dedicated approach to make sure everything was strong in this game that it is very hard 
 to stop playing it or to find a flaw. Even the apparently repetitive task of driving a vehicle 
 to a particular mission or place is way too fun. This game is the best game Ive played so far 
 this year, and goes into the top five of my all time favorite games. It also gets the highest score 
 Ive given to a game here in Gamespot
  
  However, I still not giving it a solid ten for two reasons: graphics stability and game controls. 
 I have a very high end machine, and even then I couldnt play the game at its fullest graphics 
 potential, as it was either too slow or just hanged. Thats a shame considering the graphics are 
 amazing. Rockstar told me that it has something to do with ATI graphic cards, but that shouldnt 
 be an excuse. I played Vice City in a machine less powerful than the one I have today, with the 
 graphics options at its best and it was flawless. I think Rockstar took a step back here
  
  The second reason is the game controls, particularly on planes and helicopters using a keyboard 
 + mouse. It is just too complicated to fly some planes as the controls are too sensitive, and if 
 it includes shooting you just dont have enough fingers or lack a third hand. This can be very 
 frustrating, and it shouldnt be that way.
  
  Nevertheless, those two issues are dwarfed by the other attributes of the game, and you learn to 
 live with them and have fun. I strongly recommend this game to anyone. Kudos to Rockstar and I 
 eagerly look forward to the next GTA on the series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slimrider94
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 16, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Like every other GTA game the gamplay is great. You cannot get bored by this. Many things 
 to do. Hours and hours of gaming is not enough for this game. This game is very long and highly 
 addictive. The perfect match up.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are great. Not many glitches. You can see everything great. I can't run 
 it on high due to my graphics card but even at the level that I am using the graphics are great.
 
  
  Sound: The sound is good. You can hear it great. My only complaint is that I have to turn on the 
 speakers pretty loud to hear, hey but that probably is because I don't keep the volume up high.
 
  
  Value: This is a MUST HAVE! Every gamer needs this game. This game has everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ItaloIII
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 14, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  i think that this game is a very complete game and i never seen a gta so perfect like this one 
 in this one you got your status information like the weight, hability with your weapons, cars, motobikes, 
 you can even use a bicycle and its very fun but the missions, the history of the player (carl johnson) 
 how you pass the all city of san andreas with which you work for, the betrays all this game have 
 a great stuff and if you like games of free roam time with doing missions you with be like a lot 
 this game well this was my review i hope you like see ya.!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CooperTeam
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 14, 2006 1:15 am PT
Review:  Every since Grand Theft Auto 3, the game has gotten better and better with each upgrade. 3 being 
 very well done due to dirrerent locations you go to when you complete certain missions, Vice City 
 allowed you to be on a very huge map, and San Andreas use an even BIGGER map than Vice City. This 
 one is by far the best out of the Grand Theft Auto series.
  
  GRAPHICS
  =========
  Graphics are fantastic. areas like forest, desert, plains, etc. look so realistic. They made realistic 
 trees, fences, cars, people, buildings, jets, copters, and so on. What's also amazing is how there 
 are other things going on while you are in a certain location. (Example = While you are walking 
 the streets, there's a gang fight going on, or police are arresting a drive by shooter) And lets 
 not forget the numerous clothing items you can buy to change your appearance to fit your play style, 
 or just make a look for you character. "True Crime" has nothing on this game. This is one game 
 that you will always enjoy playing, if only just for fun.
  
  CONTROL
  =========
  Very well designed, although a few keys could have been re-arranged, but at least you can change 
 the keys around if you need to. Some of the fantastic controls are the walking, driving, flying, 
 even the jet pack. PLus, when you complete certain missions, you can play pool, gamble, even arcade 
 games. It's like playing a game, while playing a game. I will say that not everyone will agree 
 with the control default setup, so work with the controls for a while before you plan to play missions 
 that are gonna give you trouble later.
  
  OVERALL
  ========
  This is one game that you will have loads of fun with. Driving for MILES, gambling at the casinos, 
 playing pool, arcade games, buying houses, even owning an airport. This game has so much to offer, 
 lots of areas to explore, and so many things to do. If you ever wanted a game that offers so much 
 and has a lot of replay value, and be able to blow vehicles, planes, people, and do your own stunts, 
 this is it. Look no further. Fun has arrived. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adrian_loma
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 11, 2006 9:58 pm PT
Review:  If you owned the ps2 game d but it doesnt work anymore, this game is a good gift to be given to 
 you. Why? I used to own the ps2 game but it stopped and crashed before i even got out of a house. 
 So i got the san andreas for PC and its great! It never crashes it has amazing cheats and incredilble 
 mods wich only make it better. (Athough mods make the game very fun it also can make the game very 
 unstable and you could get problems.) For me it took time getting used to the controls. Graphics 
 were great! i am still amazed on how they have a huuge sandbox for you to destroy and still have 
 great graphics. If you dont own a GTA game go to your nearest gamestop now! Its garanteed hours 
 of fun a day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gandria
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 9, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  I will keep it simple... One of the most fabulous games i ever played. Complete in every aspect. 
 You name it. Try this game and you will never want anything else. If you want action you have it. 
 If you want story you have it. If you want gameplay you have it!
  
  Do you know where you have a good game? A really good game? Do you? A really good game?! Huh?! 
 A game that is really good? A really good game? Do you?!
  
  Yes???!!!
  
  Shut the **** up!
  
  San Andreas is better...
  
  P. S. Embrace yourself... get ride of your 
 girlfriend! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 8, 2006 11:40 am PT
Review:  gta san andreas is the best game i ever played it has amasing music and plot lines. u start out 
 being skinning and poor but as u go along u rob and do hits to make more money get haricuts get 
 new clothes weapons house cars etc. but i do say flying planes in the game can be hard some times 
 even at the learning airport base thing its easier to do ps2 san andreas airport learning base 
 thing. but the bad thing is that rockstar did not create their own multiplayer net thing for andreas 
 but if you want one go to samp its good multiplayer action and you have many character to chose 
 from. the radios stations have real music on them and is really good and you can iimport ur own 
 music into it. if you go crazy and start killing everything there the cops will go after you and 
 sometime the fbi too. and really rare the united states amry and then u can steal the tanks they 
 are driving and have a gaint blast. over all this game is really good but some wacko people at 
 rockstar games has mini ??? games in it and now they are in debt. anyways u should buy this game 
 without a dout./go too /gtagarage. com for mini stuff so you can add to san andread like map editors 
 and stuff. by a person form nanaimo canada 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SIAIP
Rating: 7.4
Date: Sep 24, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  As a fan of the GTA series, GTA San Andreas is not as groundbreaking and entertaining as its predecessors. 
 The game has got some new features which does not make more fun, just more timeconsuming. Fx. eating 
 og working out becomes annoying and it looks like Rockstar tries to copy games like The Sims. The 
 Game has a huge soundbug that ruin a bit of the game experience. Sound aside the game still has 
 a lot to offer, but chooseing between GTA: SA and GTA: VC, Vice City is still better because of 
 the better sound and none timeconsuming features. A solid game, but still uninspiring... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morphieous
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 4, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  GTA San Andreas (PC)
  
  Introduction
  
  This game shows such a big improvement and is the greatest addition to the GTA series. Rockstar 
 continue to surprise gamers everywhere. The fact that the developers can always make their games 
 better than previous ones is just truly amazing. It seems that they never run out of variety or 
 fun.
  
  You play as Carl Johnson also known as CJ, returning home from jail only to find out his mother 
 was killed. For the first few hours of the game you will be helping out your gang (The Grove Street 
 Families) to make it back to the top of the map. The missions in the first half of the game are 
 so much fun and that fun carries out straight to the end of the story. This is truly a great game 
 and it never gets boring.
  
  Gameplay
  
  It seems that every time Rockstar brings out a new GTA game they always add some new vehicles. 
 This time it is the bicycle and some new jets and boy are they great additions. The driving is 
 superb and it seems like they put all they had into this aspect of the game. Flying a jet was never 
 so much fun and the same for a motorcycle. There are so many vehicles to choose from. From boats 
 the bicycles you will never get bored with flying or driving. This adds so much variety to the 
 game and makes it so much more entertaining to play.
  
  You also have to work out to keep in shape. If you don't you'll get fat and slower and you won't 
 really be able to perform at your character's best. You can also swim or run to build up stamina 
 and also can build up your skill at firing weapons. This adds some great RPG elements to the game.
 
  
  The style of fighting seems the same as Vice city and is still done really well. Adding a new targeting 
 system that makes firing weapons so easy was such a great idea. And now finally in a GTA game you 
 can swim so you don't have to worry anymore about driving off into the sea and just watching your 
 life drain down. 
  
  One of the problems is that the areas are so huge. So you will find yourself driving up and down 
 the highway just to get to another place. The map is a joke it is so small for such a huge area. 
 You will find yourself having to go to the start menu and look at the whole map, then memorizing 
 what turns to make to get where you have to go. This is a total let down and it gets really frustrating. 
 
  
  This game also suffers some technical issues on the pc version. There are some glitches in the 
 sound when you are in some areas of the game and some slow down times on 512mb ram when the game 
 requires 256mb ram. Even when I put everything on low quality it just seems to keep have major 
 slow downs.
  
  This game is really long too, there are so much things to do and so much missions to complete at 
 times you will get confused at exactly what you have to do at a point in time. But even though 
 the game is long the missions always have so much variety that it never gets repetitive.
  
  Sound
  
  The music is so great in this game. They have licensed tracks for so many artists. 
 And the voice acting is really well done also. Gunshots sound like gunshots and punches sound like 
 punches. The only problem is that when you crash your vehicle it doesn't really make the noise 
 it's supposed to. It more sounds like a brick falling to the floor. But even so Rockstar really 
 kicked it up a notch by making the music in this game sound so great.
  
  Overall
  
  GTA San Andreas is one of the best free roaming games out there to date. If you have the money 
 and like a game with a lot of violence, mini games and missions then this game is for you. This 
 game is full of variety and the fun never seems to stop. Even when you're finished the game you 
 will find yourself just driving through cities. It never gets old or boring, what a great addition 
 to the GTA series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andilosha
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 31, 2006 6:42 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto hit again... San Andreas for PC is the most awaited game ever and there's a reason 
 for this. Vice City was Great, but these guys kind of added a whole new dimension here, kind of 
 created a small scale real city and life. Here you can experience a part of the sims series sensations, 
 you make your character eat, wear him, make him tattoos, and you kind of feel like C. J. Loading 
 is good, the story is nice, I didn't like the cars here, but I got used with them, the music is 
 nice, and you just feel like a ghetto member trying do make something with his life. You'll love 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joecold
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 30, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  This is was an excellent game when it came out and still is, mostly because of all the vehicles 
 that you can use, the shootiing is good too, but the gang wars are kind of difficult since you can't 
 auto aim, but if u bought a dual analog controller, and a few adjustments to the controls. Besides 
 that the diffrence realy is that there's going to be a online mod for the pc version.
  I have both version, cause my ps2 one is busted, but when I play the pc one with my controller 
 it feels like the ps2 version. Except that the pc one, obviously has better graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NimMroD
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 29, 2006 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto San Andreas was a very good game which impressed me with its graphic, its characters 
 and the size of the cities and map .... there were many improvements ... but the storyline was 
 not as good as Grand Theft Auto Vice City still San Andreas is a great game worth playing countless 
 hours ... the girl friend thing was kinda cool .... i really liked it .... the "hot coffee" patch 
 must be installed before playing ;) oh and one last thing .... u have to achieve the nitrous oxyde 
 at the taxi missions , now that is adrenaline :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phil-91
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 26, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  GTA is, in my opinion the best series ever brought onto the PC! GTA: San andreas' concept was to 
 link three entire cities together, as well as the countryside between them. There aim was to improve 
 the whole performance and idea of GTA and attempt to make the best game that they possibly could. 
 The gameplay similarly expands, in the jump between this and vice city, packing in some explosive 
 set pieces and amazing action-movie-like thrills. But still keeping that GTA fun freedom that we 
 have grown to love. In fact, it's arguably the best game in the series.
  
  Basically to sum it up Rockstar has done it again! San Andreas definitely lives up to the Grand 
 Theft Auto name. In fact, I personaly think that it is the best game that they have released. If 
 you have the other games then you should definatly add this to your collections.
  
  San Andreas takes place in 1992 in the West Coast-themed state of San Andreas. It is an island 
 containing three cities. You'll begin the game in the city of Los Santos, which is based roughly 
 on Los Angeles and consists of a mixture of downtown areas and the gangland ghettos. San Fierro 
 is based on San Francisco, reproducing the real city's hilly terrain and ever-present fog, it even 
 has its own remake of the golden gate bridge. The game's third city is Las Venturas, which is a 
 great take on Las Vegas, complete with a strip full of casinos and the surrounding desert. San 
 Andreas definitely feels like a much, much larger place than Vice City ever did, but at the same 
 time, there are plenty of things to do both in and out of the cities, which makes this game a cut 
 above the rest!
  
  In San Andreas, you play the role of Carl Johnson. The game opens with Carl returning to Los Santos 
 after spending the last five years in GTA III's Liberty City. But his homecoming isn't a happy 
 one! He finds out that his Mother has been murdered. Carl isn't on the ground for more than an 
 hour before he's picked up by a pair of crooked cops and thrown right back into the middle of the 
 street life he left Los Santos to avoid.
  
  Your first order of business in Los Santos is to put your set back on the map. Your gang, the Grove 
 Street Families, has fallen apart over the last five years. No body cares about them anymore. So 
 you, along with the three other leaders of the gang: Big Smoke, Ryder and Sweet set out to take 
 back the streets from your rivals, You have to complete missions to regain your lost ground. You 
 start off with small things like spray-painting over other gangs' tags moving on to bigger things 
 like drive-bys and other stuff. But there's a whole lot more to San Andreas than just regaining 
 the 'Grove'.
  
  Just when you think you're getting used to gang warfare, everything goes sour. The twisted cop 
 tenpenny contribute largely to your grief, you soon find yourself having to do whatever they make 
 you do and you end up in lots of different places but i will not spoil the plot.
  
  This game is simply in a world of its own, 1000's of vehicles including cars, motorbikes, bmx, 
 choppers, planes. Loads of main missions take up most of your time with anything from a simple 
 tagging, right up to robbing a casino. Plus the hundreds of side quests such as learning to fly, 
 drive and other stuff. This is the sort of game that you could spend forever on. If you really 
 wanted to you could just rob a car and cruise upon the miles and miles of 'freeways' or on the 
 scenic route. There's a lot of variety to San Andreas' gameplay, and most of its features are very 
 well constructed. One minute you could be doing a really complex misson and the next you might 
 be flying around to see the sites of the city.
  
  The sound is good, radiostations are, as usual, hillarious. The Graphics isnt the best as there 
 can sometimes be framerate issues. The graphics are satisfactory, enough to keep you engulfed in 
 the story.
  
  This game is an experience not to be missed. BUY IT NOW. I could reccomend it to anyone. Just be 
 warned there is quite alot of adult content in the game hence the certificate, and dont have the 
 sound too loud if your parents are near.
  
  POSITIVES
  
  + Loads of main missions and sub missions keep you entertained
  + Huge map, and area to explore
 
  + Loads of Vehicles
  
  NEGATIVES
  
  - Maybe not the best graphics
  - Maybe the swearing is unnecicary sometimes
  - Gets a bit annoying when you have to search for 
 all 100 tags, seashells and what not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mac631
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 23, 2006 2:18 am PT
Review:  A game which includes surprisingly huge map, amazing gameplay and unbelievable long mission. I 
 never play VC, GTA3 before, San Andreas is my first game in the GTA series. SA just amazing! highly 
 addictive to me although i always see the word "Mission Failed"..... I just a noob at the Action 
 game so i score SA as a hard difficulty game. Its music is just great with its Radio Station you 
 even can put your music and listen to your own song while driving car! That is great !!!! Graphic 
 is more improved since its graphic isn't good enough... Overall, it is worth playing.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badboy_32820
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 22, 2006 12:01 pm PT
Review:  THE BEST GAME IN GTA SERIES. AND EVEN ONE OF THE BEST GAMES OF ALL TIME!!!! (AHHHHHHH NOT THAT GOOD 
 THOUGH)
  
  YEAY THIS IS GTA IN SAN ANDEREAS (REALLY?!!) HIGH DETAILED 
::::::

::::::
UserName: litnek
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 21, 2006 1:37 am PT
Review:  The good:
  
  A very big map, a good storyline, many stuff to do after you have completed the game, graphics 
 look good, the music from the car radios is nice. There are many missions that put you to a very 
 interesting situation like drive-by on a boat or racing with a train.
  
  The bad:
  
  The stuff you gotta do like eating and training seem pointless as you don't actually need to do 
 it. Just a waste of time. Some very unreal stuff like cars exploding when they are upside down, 
 weak AI.
  
  Overall it's basicly a copy of the previous GTA games, so I recommend it for all the previous fans. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubalight
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 20, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto San Andreas is easily the best GTA. I was very disapointed
  when playing liberty city stories. Back to San Andreas the story is amaculit it's huge it took 
 me a month I usually beat games in 4 days not San Andreas. The chracters are belevable and the 
 character customization is really cool you can make them fat which is the easiest just buy alot 
 of food to get ripped which is kind of frustrating u can only work out a small bit once a day and 
 u have to do it very often but you inflict much more damnage. Clothing is pretty cool u can have 
 CJ be a high class gang lord in a suit and stuff or a hussling pool player or the normal run of 
 a mill thug. I would recamend this game to any one over 11 not 17 hell I was 10 when I got it I 
 just didn't understand all of it. Well it's a great game and I think it would be funner if it didn't 
 have lock on. The cars are cool and the driving is pretty good. Well if your a fan buy it NOW! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p232
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 20, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  Finaly the gta SA is here. If you have played VC and gta 3, you will see big changes in this game. 
 Everything is much better!!
  
  The good: Map is MUCH bigger, a lot of new cars, motorbikes, planes, and a hole lot of other things. 
 Good missions, and a lot of new modes you can do, like starting a gang war. Can't discripe it with 
 words. Good value, one of the games I have played for a very long time, and hasen't got sick before 
 many months later.. and thats witout doing almost any missions, diden't finish the first city, I 
 was yust having fun, and I still played for so long.
  
  The bad: The graffic and sound chould had been a litte better, but rockstar has but most of the 
 work in the gameplay and value, which I think was the right choice. The sound seems to have som 
 problems sometimes, but which such a good game you can live fine with that. But there are many 
 good soundtracks that takes my review of sound up. 
  
  Exept the little bad thing, is this game almost perfect. I am extremly suprised how big this game 
 is, also compere to other games. So far is this one of the best and most entertaiment pc game I 
 have ever played! The value is VERY good, you can play very long without getting sick of this. 
 Its worth it's money, thats not even a question for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scratzin
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 18, 2006 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas (GTA: SA) Starts when Carl Johson (CJ) comes back to Los Santos after 
 his mother (presumebly) has been murdered by Ballas (a rival gang) . You gradually learn how to 
 play this game with small help messages popping up the first time you do something. This game is 
 so complete. It has everything from gyms to girlfriends to drivingschools. The missions are also 
 very varietating. From plain shooting and racing to jumping on trucks and assasinating journalists 
 who don't follows the rules of the streets. The only minor drawback in this game is the limited 
 multiplayer/coop function. I haven't played the coop on the pc version, only on a ps2 at my friends. 
 I can't say much about this game, its just as near as perfect as you can get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RayGaut
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 14, 2006 10:58 pm PT
Review:  i loved this game i gave it a perfect 10. i have bet this game once and i am halfway through the 
 second time. there are loads of cheats for this game which are fun to play with. this game has 
 every thing racing, boating, flying. i like the number of cars you can get every time i play i 
 find a new car. i love the huge map that you can play in. i also love the long story mode and its 
 not a boring story ether. all i can say is i cant wait for GTA IV to come out. i would recommend 
 this game to any one who loves shooting, driving, setting stuff on fire, blowing up stuff. racing, 
 killing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c663
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2006 3:18 am PT
Review:  this game is the best in the whole wide world it is the best on ps2? if u try it its so cool that 
 u have to play it eveyday monday to sunday evey single year if u think its crap try it first before 
 u say that its crap whan u try it u will see how cool it but if u think its crap whan u haven't 
 even tried it than your wrong it is better than than every game that u have tried even 2006 fifa 
 would cup and more games but if u haven't try it than u know what u r WRONG!!!! if u download it 
 than your RIGHT the only game u should download is grand theft auto san andreas or more games that 
 r different than gta san andreas but make sure that it has grand theft auto at the front just try 
 IT! if u think that they different best which which there ain't don't try THAM! if u think im right 
 your right if u think im WRONG! your WRONG! my email is kingmayowa@hotmail. co. uk
  
  WARNING DO NOT TRY OTHER GAMES. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kr00k3d
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 12, 2006 2:57 pm PT
Review:  san andreas is just a superb game right from the start, rockstar has had 2 triez previously to 
 create a game with unlimited replayabilty and customisation and they have finally created one, 
 a game where everyonez cj will look diffrent from eachother great shetto styling and voice acting 
 is very suited to the charecters in the game. the only flaw in this game is that in cutscenes the 
 handz are blocky but this wont matta cuz this game is sicc. u can drive anywhere with ur crew of 
 gangstaz by recruiting them they will drive by on any enemiez or police which is a lot of fun because 
 u feel protected rather than lonely like in the otha 2 gamez das ma review. peace out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmed_009
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 11, 2006 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Hey Its the greatest game I've Seen In my life. Nice 3D, nice animation , superb story. Lovely 
 & Funny Characters in the game. But the only bad thing in this game is the bad (AI) in this game. 
 If we talk about the game city map is the largest map in the Series of GTA .3 main cities & the 
 Countryside and the deserts makes it a great map which gives you all seasons and terrains. the 
 cars are very good and there is car for every terrain in the game just like the "RANCHER" for mountains 
 & desert. ther are Bikes and such a great bikes. & there is Boats too for the opened Ocean around 
 The SAN ANDREAS Island & there are city for gambling games such as POKER & similar Games.... It's 
 a great game 
  ***in conclusion*** Excellent Game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthas_prince
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 8, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  That game is a great game, good graphics, and a god history, but in my opinion, there are, many 
 bugs, the cars crash many times, but in general the game is a very good game there are so many 
 things to do, the cities are very larges and the game make you fell like in a real world because, 
 are many things of the real world in a city the casinos and that things, and the game offers the 
 function of change your vehicle with anyone you want, and you can kill, punch anyone you want there 
 are many possibilities, and for this is a great game
  
  Excuse me for my poor English 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdulrahiem
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is the single play game. Its the first GTA game with more then 2 different 
 cities, and it offers a feel that you truly live and adapt to a world that you live in. GTA forumla 
 by allowing more freedom then ever. Swimming, food, break ins and bikes are just a few of the dozens 
 of new abilities that this game threw in tomake it better then the past GTA games have been Like 
 GTA 3 and Vice city. The game puts out an amazing effort to be unique and entertaining for a long 
 time. When I first started to play this game I wasnt as impressed as I was with Vice City. The City 
 of San Andreas was just as impressive yes, but Carl Johnson (Or CJ) just didnt have the same appeal 
 as Tommy Vercetti which is something I still hold to this day. When you get bored of playing in 
 the city you can go and have a stroll in the countryside and visit some of the less populated suburbs, 
 how about trying to speed past a car on the freeway with your tractor, or why not go for a swim 
 in the sea. This is the game to get for all PC owners. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhult
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 6, 2006 1:57 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best game in the GTA series in that there is so much to do, and the world is 
 huge. However, my favorite is still Vice City, because of the atmosphere. For example, the radio 
 stations could have been a bit better, with a better selection of songs. I also have difficulty 
 relating to the main character. Black gangstas have never been my thing, but that's probably just 
 me. On the graphics side, I really think it's time to update the engine. I find it quite weird 
 that these games, with their huge sales numbers (and development budgets) use such an outdated 
 engine. Perhaps that will come with GTA 4 for the PS3? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LedZeppGuy32
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 4, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  After Buying San andreas for the PS2 I was addicted too it, but then the time came where i had 
 to scratch up some money for an xbox 360 and sold my PS2, I thought i would never see san andreas 
 again, but then at best buy, i saw it, on the shelf, for the PC.... and i knew, i must have her 
 again.... I bought her for 20$ and installed her on my computer, The games controls are harder 
 then the ps2 and xbox counterparts, but i got used to them very fast. The graphics hold the game 
 back, but they are better then the ps2s graphics, I suggest buying san andreas on the computer 
 more then the ps2 or xbox, becuase of the graphics. A great game, for a great price 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rukas_21
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 3, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  The game is great but the grafics are a deception to the rest of the game. I have the game for 
 PC and the world is huge and theres so muck stuff to do. I had some dificulties in San Fierro and 
 the Las Venturas Countryside but it was alright. Some of the missions are dificult but in all missions 
 the only thing you need is practise ( expecialy in the pilots school and the Zero missions ) .
 
  In conclusion, its a superb game and just like we say in Portugalisto  do caralho pa". Its 
 a game that should not be missed and i enjoy it every minute. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Beckham
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 30, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  Everyone knows San Andreas, some people (Politicians) hate it and some people (Gamers) love it. 
 The game is set in 1992 and has an obvious gangsta tint. In this you start off in Los Santos, a 
 mimic of Los Angeles.
  
  You then move onto San Fierro, which is a copy of San Francisco and then finally to Las Venturas, 
 A copy of Las Vegas. The cities have architecture that relates to this and has features that relate 
 to it. It also carries this on through the story, but I won't ruin it for you. 
  
  The gameplay is the same, with a few tweaks but this makes it easy to get into. The game unlocks 
 a lot after each mission and you always feel that the missions have a point. 
  
  There is no invisible roof on the sky! This means you can fly up, jump out and plummet down, with 
 parachute of course! This takes a long time but it is so addictive! 
  
  The voice acting is great and there are a lot of famous actors such as Samuel L Jackson. The soundtrack 
 is also very accurate apart from it swears and in that time they were not allowed to swear on the 
 radio. There are references to this though.
  
  The game is also very stacked in the visual department and from the air it is simply breathtaking! 
 The packages are gone but are replaced with other features such as tags, horseshoes and oysters. 
 
  
  The amount of Easter Eggs in the game is simply outstanding, wherever you go you can see them, 
 whether it is in the police shower room or on the top of a big bridge.
  
  This game will take you in and swallow you whole, say goodbye to your social life! This will last 
 you over a year and you can revisit it over and over again. Words can't describe the game so just 
 go and buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chubbydwk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  I had this game the first day it came out but i am writing it about now...
  This game is great, more than greater than the other game possibly...
  I enjoy playing this even 
 when i beat the game... i am almost 93% complete and even you beat the game... it is about 70% 
 done so there more stuff to do like in the days of vice city or GTA 3... Though the game contains 
 inappropriatethings but still it is fun to play and the characters are well made... I guess that 
 if you really want to buy the game, get the triple pack where the first and the last GTA series..... 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mimic-Denmark
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 26, 2006 5:39 am PT
Review:  A little late to write a review, but heres a little one because i think it deserves my attension 
 too. Have played it since it came out to pc, and i still play it to today, just the sheer size 
 of it, the freedom, thats what i love in games, and i have spent a lot of hours in this game and 
 ill properly come back for more fun in it, so i hope that ill get to try more great games like 
 this in the future. The game is a real accomplishment, the world is very real created, and the 
 humor in the gta series has always been one of their trademarks and its better then ever in there, 
 plus some great hollywood voice actors, i liked espacially James Woods that gave the voice to a 
 charecter that suited him very well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KevinMunro
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2006 2:55 am PT
Review:  This Is my favorite game in the world, I love flying the hydra, my favourite mission is "Breaking 
 the bank's at Caligula's" I wish I had the PC verison The I could Play Online!!! I also Want GTAIV 
 to come out! I do not want to write one hundred words O my god text review must have a length of 
 at least 100 words, this is not going to cut it. I hate the mission N . O . E. I like play the 
 sims 2 also. And midnight DUB Edition Remix. The last mission of GTA is easy I did it in On Try 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jman9891
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 24, 2006 11:44 pm PT
Review:  Very good game it's the best in the GTA series so far. Great storyline, very nice game play, and 
 good soundtrack. The graphics ar good, but i think some of the character models and such could 
 be improved just a little bit, and although the soundtrack is good, it mostly focuses on rap, it 
 could of focus on some other kinds of music such as latin music and others . And the sound was 
 a kind of a problem, like when it starts raining sometimes, the sound will immediately cut off 
 sometimes. The A. I. was an big improvement from vice city, so now if you honk the horn at people 
 they will actually react to it instead of just standing there. So now it's a good time to get this 
 game if you've haven't already played it yet because this is worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rykou13
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 19, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is wild and crazy. Most fun me and my cousins had. I like the different cities (especially 
 las ventures) . A bunch of weapons and finally they let you swim. My favorite part is when I flying 
 and I get shot down and right before i crash i put in the code and kep flying. Well, your going 
 to run into alot of gang rivals, but you get to claim their terrority for your own, then you have 
 to keep beating others to own it. Now they added multiplayer mode which is pointless except in 
 pool its fun there. My suggestion is to........................ BUY THIS  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mimo_90
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 19, 2006 9:27 am PT
Review:  This game is so awesome.. starting from the graphics going up to the sound (the radio stations r 
 so nice + funny and a great thing u can do with the last one) and the story is magnificent. i've 
 finished this game four time and it never felt boring.. as u go through the events of the game u'll 
 find lots of interesting missions (there no repetition) and one of the most great things in the game 
 is u can personalize the character you play with.. you cant deny the beauty of being able to ride 
 all these things .. however in the very beginning of the game you'll learn who is the traitor who 
 killed your ma.. and you will be disappointed. but if u put vice city near it it'll look like crap (i 
 mean vice city) so Rock star keep up the good work.. so to sum up this game should be considered 
 one og the greatest games in this century and i hope Rock star will make a sequel to it (that at 
 least meets its greatness) .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3927
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 6:33 am PT
Review:  By now, you probably know how this works. The new Grand Theft Auto game comes out in October, but 
 only on the PlayStation 2. Xbox and PC owners have to wait a half a year or so for their versions 
 of the game, and each always has the potential to be better than the original release. That's saying 
 something, because we're already talking about one of the best games of 2004 and the best game 
 in the Grand Theft Auto series. Once again, the wait is over, and Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas 
 is now available on the PC and Xbox. While both versions have aspects that are better than the 
 outstanding PS2 game, visual weirdness on the Xbox and a handful of technical issues on the PC 
 prevent either version from being the clear-cut best of the bunch. By now, you probably know how 
 this works. The new Grand Theft Auto game comes out in October, but only on the PlayStation 2. 
 Xbox and PC owners have to wait a half a year or so for their versions of the game, and each always 
 has the potential to be better than the original release. That's saying something, because we're 
 already talking about one of the best games of 2004 and the best game in the Grand Theft Auto series. 
 Once again, the wait is over, and Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is now available on the PC and 
 Xbox. While both versions have aspects that are better than the outstanding PS2 game, visual weirdness 
 on the Xbox and a handful of technical issues on the PC prevent either version from being the clear-cut 
 best of the bunch. The PC version comes on DVD only and is packaged with a fully bound book that 
 serves as the manual. It's definitely some of the coolest PC game packaging around. This version 
 also has the potential to be the best-looking version of the game by a long shot. Support for higher 
 resolutions makes the textures and characters look sharper and much better than either of the console 
 versions. There's a draw distance slider that, when turned all the way up, almost totally eliminates 
 the draw-in and fogging that's become synonymous with the series. Your Grove Street home looks 
 much more like a run-down South Central neighborhood when you can see more of its surroundings. 
 But all this graphical quality is offset by some serious problems with the sound. Testing on three 
 different machines that exceed the recommended system specs got us three results. On one machine, 
 we didn't experience any audio glitches. On another, the audio simply cut out a lot, leaving you 
 to drive around with only music to keep you company. It's tough to play when you can't hear your 
 mission descriptions. On the third machine, loading up a save game caused a loud grating noise -- which 
 sounded like the bike-riding audio mixed with a helicopter -- to scream out from the middle of the 
 Grove. We had to hop in a car and drive away from the area to make the noises stop. Also, the cutscenes 
 occasionally desynched from the audio, making the lip movement appear to be way off. Control in 
 the PC version is full of options. You can decide to hook up a dual analog gamepad so that you 
 can play it just like the console versions, or you can instead opt for mouse-and-keyboard control. 
 Either method works, though we had several cases where the game would simply stop responding to 
 any mouse input until we alt-tabbed out of the game, moved the mouse, and then jumped back in. 
 This isn't exactly the sort of thing you want to have happen in the middle of a shoot-out. Mouse 
 control also removes the lock-on aspect of the targeting, giving you easy access to manual targeting. 
 The refined control the mouse gives you seems like an unfair advantage at times, because it's very 
 easy to rack up one-shot kills by aiming for the head. If you have a smooth mouse hand, even the 
 roughest firefights are really basic... provided the mouse doesn't die on you. Both versions have 
 custom soundtrack support, though using it robs you of the great DJs that populate the game's radio 
 stations. You'll still hear a lot of the funnier ads on the custom station, though. 
  
  Overall, each version of the game has its share of differences and minor issues, but the core game 
 is fantastic, regardless of the platform you play it on. While the list of games that can list 
 GTA as an influence grows longer and longer, there's still nothing quite like the real thing, and 
 the "bigger, better" approach to sequel design definitely works in San Andreas' favor. 
  
  OK, all that information is fine and good if you've already played San Andreas. But if you're new 
 to the loc'ed-out streets of San Andreas, there's much more you need to know. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slipknot411
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 12, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  anyone that is a gamer should play this game man it is the bomb! if you liked vice city you will 
 love San Andreas man! Check it out its worth it!
  if you love GtA play this and you will enjoy it! incredible story line and great music radio station 
 plus the vehicles and wonderfull missions make the game very fun to play plus you can customiz 
 your carcter to you liking and ofcourse the rush of police chasing you the game is by far flawless 
 and since i was a big fan of GTA since the 99 i really liked it but somehow the enviroment is not 
 as good as Vice City but the ppl who have played it like it so im have to gonna say I love this 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbyjoe213
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 8, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  GTA San Andreas is definatly one of the greatest games of all time. With it's amazingly large map 
 and fun story and side missions, you can't go wrong.
  Unlike GTA3 and Vice City, San Andreas is a state with 3 large cities. Los Santos, San Fiero and 
 Las Venturas. LS is based on Los Angeles, SF is based on San Fransisqoe and LV based on Las Vegas. 
 There are no load times between traveling to these cities which is pretty cool. The story puts 
 you as Carl Johnson who was living in LIberity City for five years trying to get away from his 
 family and his problems only to return to Los Santos when learning about the death of his mother. 
 Carl is a member of the Grove Street Familes gang which is now in severe trouble with the Rollin' 
 Height Ballaz who are there sworn enemies. Nearly five minutes after getting off the plane, he 
 is arrested by Frank Tennpenny who is a corrupt cop. Carl gets let off. He then learns that Grove 
 Street isn't big anymore so Carl with the help of his brother Sweet and his friends Ryder and Big 
 Smoke try to take back the city. Due to a reason I'm not going to say (I already said too much) 
 Carl has to leave LS and go to the other cities. The gameplay hasn't changed much. In the PC version 
 theres no auto-aim makeing it easy to aim with the mouse. New to the series is the ablity to swim 
 and dive underwater. Also there are some RPG elements added to the game. Instead of getting life 
 pickups, you now must eat at restaurants to keep your health up although eat too much and you'll 
 become fat. You also need to work out and increase your stamina and muscle. Stamina helps you run 
 longer while muscle increases how much damage you do in melee. Also you need to increase your skill 
 with certain guns. The soundtrack could have been a bit better. It does have some good songs but 
 the rest could have been better. You can now actually fly planes in San Andreas which is sweet. 
 There are even more vechicles than any of the previous titles. So basically if your bored and you 
 got $30 or so, this will definatly keep you entertained for weeks. I highly recommend the PC version 
 if you have a good computer but if you don't just get PS2. IT"S FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArcTrooper3827
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 7, 2006 7:18 am PT
Review:  All I have to say is WOW! I have played this game for PS2 and Xbox and they are both great for 
 that, but when I bought it for my pc and started to play it and was blown away the graphics are 
 better and the soundtrack is the same but at least you have your own music station on there to 
 listen to your own music. Though Xbox has that same option. But all in all it was a good game, 
 fun and kept my interest. The only thing that they should add to this great series would have to 
 be the ability to go online and do rampages and other dual jackings with other people. Maybe have 
 a city free-for-all were you can choose from different characters from the game and have an entire 
 city to duke it out and see who the GTA victor would be! That would be great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamza88
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 4, 2006 2:47 am PT
Review:  GTA San Andreas did exceed expectations and is a great buy...
  the story starts of quite good and gets you addicted in seconds.. as u play it the story starts 
 to become obvious.. but thats all covered up by the awesome gameplay and the great weather effects 
 .The Graphics were a great letdown especially the dull environment unlike its prequel vice city 
 which had bright and eye catching scenarios still overall the game is worth the money.. and even 
 makes you want to wait for its sequel.
  GTA SA has loads of new transporting means.. and Carl (the main character even knows how to swim) .. no 
 more crying out for help in the water.. then there is a commercial aircraft u get to fly in the 
 later stages of the game and even a fighter jet.. which you can even unlock in the early game by 
 using some cheat codes.. GTA SA has a whole lot more to offer than all this and if you still have 
 not bought this game you should buy it as early as possible..! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartass21
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 1, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  GTA San Andreas is one of my favorite games .It has an enormous space ,only the first city is as 
 big as all the cities in Vice City .In San Andreas your character is CJ (Carl Johnson) a black guy 
 from the ghetto who comes home when his Moms is killed .He has to find out who killed her and 
 get the Grove back on her feet .The Ballas are their sworn enemy .
  San Andreas has a fantastic gameplay.
  In San Andreas you can get your character new clothes, 
 you can make him exercise at the gym .You can also make your character to eat and if you eat to 
 much your character gets fat .I really like that you can recruit gang members and they follow you 
 around .They can help you get enemy territories.
  The graphics in San Andreas are not so advanced ,but they are better than previous games.
  That 
 being sad you can see why GTA San Andreas is one of my favorite games. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Capitalist
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 2, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is the fourth iteration of the wildly popular GTA series, which is 
 set in the state of San Andreas, which is basicly a parody of the Southwest United States set in 
 the early 1990's. The player plays as CJ, an African American man who sets out into a saga to help 
 reunite his gang, the Grove Street families. The state of San Andreas is further divided into 3 
 metropolises: Los Santos, San Fierro, and Las Venturas, plus numerous small towns set in the outskirts 
 of these cities.
  
  The game's presentation is not a no-frills affair. The game packaged into one hardcover book, with 
 the DVD on the inside back cover and an entire foldout map of the gameworld pasted on the inside 
 front cover. It's fairly creative and looks very cool compared to other types of packaging that 
 one will have ever seen.
  
  The game is a hybrid, which means that it combines many different types of gameplay, all into one 
 package. There is plenty of running and gunning, driving, playing different types of minigames, 
 and the list goes on.
  
  Despite being advertised as a hybrid, the game is structured in such a way that one has to do plenty 
 of mandatory missions in order to unlock access to other areas in the gameworld. For instance, 
 in order to do voluntary robbery missions, one has had to already finished one of the mandatory 
 robbery missions in the game. This limits the freedom of the player somewhat, but since most of 
 the missions are relatively simple, this is of little concern. 
  
  The driving in the game feels well done, with excellent vehicular physics and damage models. One 
 can also engage in carjacking, racing, and wild police chases. However, on the other hand, there 
 is some noticable lack of realism in the driving sequences in which one can ram into other cars 
 with little recourse from the police, and how one can drive as fast as one wants without any intervention 
 from the police, unlike the real world. Also, unlike many other driving games, this game lacks 
 a speedometer. 
  
  Unlike the driving sequences in the game, the gunplay in the game feels weak. When one picks up 
 a gun, there is no crossair unless if one engages in "manual aiming mode", but even with this, 
 the game can feel unwieldy sometimes due to the rather sloppy mapping of the controls, which often 
 happens when a console game like this one is ported to the PC. There is also an automatic aiming 
 mode, but it often aims at the wrong targets than what the player would want to aim at.
  
  Akin to its name, there is plenty of crime to commit in the state of San Andreas. One can carjack, 
 commit murder, hold up stores and people on the street, commit burglury, do drive-bys and more. 
 The varied gameplay potential in this game is pretty good, but it forces the player to commit to 
 different tactics every single mission, which can fustrate people who are new to the GTA series 
 in general.
  
  Graphics-wise, the game feels and looks extremely dated. Although the game makes up with the shear 
 scale of the gameworld, most of the interior levels are bland, with ugly low-res textures everywhere. 
 Also, one can not enter every single building, so the player is largely limited to the streets, 
 some stores, and safehouses. Also, there variety of pedestrians that one can see is not very significant, 
 thus scaling back the realism scale some. But most the animations in the game are well done, and 
 the cars look great, thanks to high-poly models and crisp textures. But other-wise, the game's 
 archaic graphics do not hold up very well. Hopefully a future GTA can reverse this problem.
  
  Sound-wise, the game sounds great, with excellent voice acting, vehicle sounds, and so on. 
 But most of the weapons don't sound that great.
  
  Overall, there is plenty to do in San Andreas. This hybrid shows some great promise, and one will 
 spend many hours on this game. It's not bad for a mere 20 dollars, and considering the shear amount 
 of mods out there, GTA San Andreas is a jewel in gaming to behold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 29, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Like my PS2 review, another great GTA game released! And like its counter-part on the consol it 
 is virtually identical in everything except the online communties and graphical specs.
  I didnt take much time purusing the online communities, but they defiently do have some, and they 
 are producing quality add-ons to the game. Remember Hot Coffee? lol.
  And of course being ported to the PC, means better overall preformance and graphical quality. Tweak 
 your game to preform to your system and see the difference it makes. Obviously. However, i found 
 that you need a decent rig to get it to run nicely because it loads so much of the world at the 
 same instance. I got some definent lag and would recommend this game to higher equipped machines.
 
  But its still a great game all around and should be picked up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toxicbill
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 23, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  This is the best of all GTA's out there. I wont lie, but the graphics kinda suck and the story 
 does get kinda boring after a while, but over all, this game was still pretty good! I like just 
 running cops over and doing drive-bys, WHO DOESNT! If you want to get this game for PS2, then rent 
 it first just to see it you like it. If you liked the other GTA's, then you will love this and 
 i say just go out and buy it. If you are a modder, then you will also love this, because of how 
 simple it is to modifie. If I had one request for the up-coming GTA's, i would say BETTER GRAPHICS. 
 And there is something about GTA SA that is weird, if you hit a car head on, damage will be on 
 the rear of the car, and none of the front, were you hit it. But this has to be the best GTA out 
 there to-date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxgangsta
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2006 4:19 am PT
Review:  Well when i started this amazing game i knew that dis will be superb game , first i like rap and 
 this game is like "gangstas paradise" , missions are like in all gta series i dont see much diference 
 but ather stuff is great , you can go to gym or date a girl thats realy cool , game story is very 
 good its has a beggining and ending not like in gta 3 well in gta 3 there is same kinda of story 
 but i dont think so i recomend this game for all... Well when i played san andreas later about 
 few moth later i tryed to play it again but it wasnt that interesting i can say that this game 
 is only for one time maybe , but its the best of gta series ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiltonS
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 21, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Ok.. so lets start with the good things the graphics, the game got a face lift comparing to the 
 previous gta games (there are some other nice details in game like the weather effects the more 
 details characters) . period! 
  
  Now the gameplay is the same of Vice city! what does that mean? that if you played 100+ hours on 
 vice city, then San andreas will get old after 10 hours. they tried to add rpg features but in 
 the end its not enough to make it interesting and most of the missions have a "deja vu" feeling. 
 
  
  the sound is average there is some great voice acting that helps you get in "the mood" although 
 the radio stations are very bad compared to vice city or gta3.
  
  The story is average but most of the time you do the question "what is the point of this mission?" 
 and again if you have played vice city this story will not be good enough to make you play the 
 game
  
  in the end if you haven't played vice city or gtaIII then this might be a very entertaining experience 
 otherwise i would recommend a rent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctaStrangelov
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 21, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Highs: Loads of content, alot of over-the-top moments, good plot and voiceacting, cool RPGesque 
 elements, cost is one dollar per hour of gameplay (before replayig it because it is so fun) .
  
  Lows: reletivly poor graphics, AI is mediocre, some minor sound bugs.
  
  Now if you have 
 not hear of this game you need to kill yourself. Between the awards the PS2 one is getting and 
 the random attacks on mods for this version, it is impossible to not have hear about this game.
 
  
  Before we start this review I would like to say that Misses Clinton and Mister Liaberman have better 
 thngs to due than bash mods, they actually have not attacked the retail game, the HotCoffe minigame 
 is not accessible unless you download a mod or alter the code yourself, so I would also like to 
 tell the ESRB to bite my ass you useless waste of money, I played Diablo when I was ten and i turned 
 out fine!
  
  Now for the review. 
  
  GTA SA is set in '92, when I was five or something. The plot is you are a negro from the RoctStar 
 version of LA, your Mom was killed and you came back for the funeral when three corrupt cops accuse 
 you of murdering an offficer they killed because he was going to tell on them (all you kids who 
 tell the teacher if some one was mean, this should be a leeson) and from there you meet your friends 
 and the brother that was not iced. you see your street gang has been beaten down due to quarels 
 amoung members and cocaine addiction so you set out to bring it back by killing other gang members 
 and crack dealer and stealing guns and that stuff until a big spoiler alert happens and the plot 
 goes off to being about revenge and getting your brother out of jail. I cannot tell you anymore 
 without telling to much, just there is alot of stuff happening in this game and alot of it is surprising 
 and cool. 
  
  The game focuses on combat which is mostly during missions. Missions range from tourching crack 
 houses, to going all Splinter Cell like, to ripping off Ocean's eleven, to doing street races through 
 forests to assualting Area 51, so yes lots of vartiety and little repition, in fact so few missions 
 feel like rehashes of previous ones, mostly the similar missions are about going into a building 
 filled with bad guys and killing all of them with your trusty H&K-MP5, your main weapon for over 
 sixty pecent of the game. Now sixty pecent of the campain is about thirty hours of game play, so 
 it takes about fifty hours to complete, and contains about seventy missons. Some missons are frustrating 
 but mostly they are kick-ass full with action-movie cliches made to look as cliche as possible 
 for the sake of insulting cliche action movies. The game has humorous insults to our society, spoofing 
 hippies, scientology, obesity, waitloss programms, bogus sports, lame video games, table top RPGs 
 and obsetion with the false threats of communism and why that justifies owning excessive firepower. 
 While we talk of exessive firepower there are over thirty different weapons, which include stock 
 weapons like a sniper rilfe, pistol, desert eagle, M4, AK47, Uzi, and so on, but also cool weapons 
 like ninja swords, miniguns, flamethrowers and RPGs (acronym is translated from Russian into hand-held, 
 antitank, grenade launcher, not "rocket propelled grenade" like most dumb Americans think it is, 
 you know not all acronyms are in American) . There are RPG style elements, such as using a weapon 
 engough increases acuracy or if it is a one handed weapon allowing dual wield (please note that 
 dual wielding is a really stupid thing to do in real life, you won't hit anything if you dual wield) , 
 swimming under water allows you to swim under water longer, working out increases melee damge, 
 and runnig, swimming and doing cardio increases health and stamia. 
  
  Bottom Line: you have heard so much about this game, now go and play it because its a good game, 
 not because its a crotrvesial one.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AINISA
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 18, 2006 12:15 am PT
Review:  Mafia wors.
  
  the game Grand theft auto San Andreas is a great game.
  the game is a very good game but the environment is BAD.
  In Los Santos they are have a Poor 
 environment.
  after you end the game better uninstall cause it's Boooring.
  
  The gameplay is awesome, and its just amazing that you can do nearly everything in this game, 
 from riding a bicycle to flying a passenger plane.
  
  
  Intresting misions end weapons.
  Graphics and sound are great .
  i think that you have a lot 
 of time to play it.
  
  I got this game last year, and I cant stop playing! Every morning, I would get up and go downstairs 
 and play this very cool game! I gave the sound a little less just because the swearing just goes 
 past the limit, but the music is the best! You can put your own music on it!
  
  I giw 9,2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dsking41
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 15, 2006 6:16 am PT
Review:  the game Grand theft auto San Andreas is a great game.
  the game is a very good game but the environment is BAD.
  In Los Santos they are have a Poor 
 environment.
  after you end the game better uninstall cause it's Boooring.
  
  But AS I Said Before a great storyline and a great game
  
  i think that you have a lot of time 
 to play it.
  
  if you got a PS2 Better take it to the ps2 because there are missions to 2 players and it is not 
 in the PC Version.
  
  if you have a PC/XB/PS2 And you Don't have this game in your Case so you are a fool. the game is 
 more than 100 hours of play
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FranKrig
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 12, 2006 6:23 am PT
Review:  After GTA III and that's a real gut game the game heirs has a ugly Sony graphic and cam control. 
 It's the wrung way if you know the word development. Thanks SONY 5 years trowed back. THANKS! 
 ! !
  
  Now I hat enough of your giant capitalistic dictatorship throwing the PC gaming years back not 
 to mention the idiotic camera dictator twisting the directions around so a direction is not a direction, 
 if the Fuxkxxg cam must and have to move so the PS2 is able to read and write the graphic. 
  BUT I dont care about if Sony makes a console of parts the got for free because there to old and 
 slow that any serious graphic-cart producer would put them in any card at all. 
  Only Sony would take them it seams. But why do the absolutly enterfire whai the Pc. gaming and 
 damige every thing for us.
  
  Were many PC and Mac gamers suffering there decision's. 
  Believe it or not I have a PS.2. I neat to know what I'm talking about that's why.
  
  So about 
 this game; change the engine back to GTA III's or make a serious console that can run the game's 
 you want it to, and stop damiging our games just for the sake of Sony's!!!!!!. 
  I really did stop playing all PC games I own whit PS. 2 engine "or compatible whit PS.2" else I 
 would have toasted and eaten my mouse crashed my keyboard and jumped around on my computers or 
 the game-CD's. But thats not what I did. No sometimes I only spit on my PS.2 when i go past it, 
 not to mention what I could do to it out on the toilet. ;-) Just kitting NO- it should be on Sonys 
 toilet of curse.
  
  Heir SONY is a list of my PC games readdy for the DUMP because of you're capitalistic-dictatorship: 
 
  1- Legacy of Kain defiance. 
  2- Lord of the rings The King. 
  3 -Lord of the rinds the two towers. 
  4 - Prince of Persia worrier within. 
  5 - Prince of 
 Persia sand of time. 
  6 - Cat woman. 7 - GTA vice city. 
  9 - GTA vice city. 
  And many many more. just take a look at my games list here and you'll se that I have all of GTA's 
 until St. Andreas only GTA vice city is heir on the list, and I wony pay annt thing to get Gta 
 St. AnndreASS. 
  The reat on the list are also one's you crashed whit your disastrous PS2 Sony politik Stop that 
 and make your own games mend for the ones you got as novice's for your SONY religion, and KEEP 
 AWAY from the real games and gamers if I may THANKS!!!!!.
  
  Ps. some how The Godfather is like Gta St. AndreAss and vice city. there manly made for the Ps 
 2 so for the Pc gamers there quid disappointing games, but for the Ps 2 gamers it's real grate 
 games. and Godfather has some real grate and funny new features. like the main characters raw and 
 tough way to convince people to support hes mafia family, yes he sure is a tough son of a bitc-bi 
 bi lol but I just hate the much too dominant music that we can't turn off ! ! the melody is okay 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sthadji
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 8, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Love it or hate it, one must admit that the GTA series have revolutionized gaming. San Andreas 
 is a fantastic addition to the series and you can spend hours playing this game without getting 
 bored. The missions are fun to play and I think that we should see more of these free-style games. 
 
  
  The gameplay is awesome, and its just amazing that you can do nearly everything in this game, 
 from riding a bicycle to flying a passenger plane.
  
  The graphics may not be that good but Im sure you cant expect that great graphics on a game that 
 offers so many possibilities. They are satisfactory at best.
  
  Theres nothing much to say about the sound. I dont like much how the explosions sound but I definitely 
 like the commercials on the radio stations!! Some will have you laughing your a** off. 
  
  The value is of this game is amazing. It really doesnt end. You can do anything, even after completing 
 all the missions. Its like a whole different world. 
  My personal opinion is that GTA: San Andreas is a brilliant game that will have you busy for many, 
 many hours!! :D
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LucasAW
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jun 8, 2006 6:45 am PT
Review:  Basically the reason everybody likes this game, is because of Vice City, when the new concept came 
 in that - oh wow!! You can blow up anything you want and shoot random people. Which, I have to 
 admit i loved when it first made an appearance (i was about 13 and easily lead) . Now it's just 
 gettin stupid... Because you can do all these crimes, you've got all these chavs playing it, the 
 popularity of the game snowballed and as soon as someone even heres GTA they say - oh man, best 
 game ever.
  
  If you're a kid, this game will be fun for a while cuz it has everything you're not supposed to 
 see or here in it. If your a chavy adult you will also love it... cuz basically your all children.
 
  
  Glad thats outa my system!!! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cnugegoda
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 7, 2006 9:38 pm PT
Review:  GTA San Andreas is the best in GTA series I have played from GTA 1 every thing that rockstar can 
 muster on GTA series and I have beaten every game and this take the cake in San Andreas, when you 
 get to the casino world the you meet two stupid dudes from England that TRUTH will send u to meet 
 at the desert, well that mission is easy after some missions later then you have to jump to a plain 
 from a plain MY GOD THIS IS HARD I MEAN REALLY REALLY HARD, first you have to get to the air thats 
 easy right, then you have to drive the plane to know where and suddenly you get a another plane 
 that you have to follow and get in to the marker, ha easy right think again when you come close 
 to the other plane that plane have reached the airport and about to land mission failure. I have 
 done this only twice and after that I tried many times but I failed. Because of this I have the 
 game, well thats my bad. But I finished the game after the first time that I completed that mission, 
 that is the only mission that you need real luck,. 
  
  Graphics and sound are great 
  
  Overall this game is a great game you still havent played the game go ahead and buy it and others 
 who has played it will agree to my review (HOPEFULLY) . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: azrealhk
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 6, 2006 7:11 pm PT
Review:  GTA: SA is big, and the amount of things you could do compared to previous GTA games will keep you 
 exploring the game. The game can be played on a quite a low end computer which is an advantage 
 as the GTA series graphics are pretty average.
  The game provides a a set of missions but you do not have to follow them, and lots of "side missions" 
 such as getting a new haircut, new clothes, going to Gym and the chatting up the GF etc, which 
 gets a boring after a while. However it is the hidden mini games, the different things you can 
 do which makes the GTA series so great. The sound it OK, and don't expect much. The radio was not 
 as good as GTA: VC (I just cracked up at the radio shows on VC) . The language is mature, but that 
 just adds to the atmosphere.
  Having said that, I liked GTA: VC better, maybe because I grew up in the Miami Vice era. I also 
 found some of the flight missions pretty tedious (not being a simulation person) , which spoilt 
 the fun for me.
  If you expect a blind FPS you will be disappointed, as the GTA series is more an action adventure 
 with some FPS elements. It's not all out action, but all out fun.
  Overall it is an excellent game, and still highly recommended.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: octopusempire
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 5, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  First, let me note that GTA: San Andreas was probably one of the most anticipated PS2 games in 
 a very long time. It had to live up to the high standards set by its predecessors, GTA3 and GTA 
 Vice City. In my opinion, although SA was fun, it just didnt live up to the hype given. Let us 
 examine this proposition.
  
  The gameplay could have used some work. The story was long and complicated, but ultimately very 
 weak and anemic. Your allies and enemies AI was practically nonexistent  their pathfinding usually 
 found them running into walls, or down streets for no reason, thereby producing annoyance.
  
  The graphics are also annoying. Blocky and boring, I sometimes found it hard to even make out 
 the faces of characters when they were on screen. A general filter seemed to pervade the entire 
 game. New to SA is the freeform camera, which is supposedly better than the slaved camera used 
 in other GTA games. Slaved basically means that the camera is fixed at some point determined by 
 the character. This is not so for SA, and therefore manipulating the camera became a challenge 
 that should not have existed in a game of this magnitude. Try driving in San Fierro (the games 
 version of San Francisco) , and see if you can avoid any cars while going uphill. Its practically 
 impossible, unless you divide your attention to the camera.
  
  Sound was decent, and I have no real problem with it. I found myself driving around listening to 
 all of the stations available just to hear what song would come on next. The DJs are all famous 
 (for example, Axl Rose as the DJ for the classic rock station) and they do their job well. The 
 pedestrians in the game are all unique depending on their city, and provide interesting dialogue.
 
  
  The basic idea of SA was one of free-form gameplay. This was practically achieved, as the player 
 had free reign over three huge cities, with all of the countryside inbetween to roam through. This 
 is one of SAs greatest strengths and one of its greatest weaknesses. Instead of giving us actual 
 solid gameplay, the developers have basically given us GTA3 (still the best in the series) with 
 a bunch of bells and whistles attached. Missions sometimes involved simply driving through confusing 
 back roads for no other reason than to pick someone up and talk to them. Why? Basically, to introduce 
 a feeling of awe when no actual gameplay exists. Although this game is a must-play, it can be both 
 overwhelming and underwhelming at times. Be prepared for the conflict. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shion_jr_kosmos
Rating: 2.6
Date: Jun 4, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  I'm not gonna lie, I HATE this game. The graphics suck! They are so blocky, and the hands are like 
 glued together, that's not cool. Gameplay, same as Vice City. The cover I will say is nice. Gameplay 
 gets repetitive kinda quick. But, the saving grace of this game is the voice-overs. I will admit 
 this game has really good actors like Samuel L. Jackson and other Hollywood actors. But other than 
 that, this game sux! Pretty much if you're a die-hard fan you'll love it. Just have fun trying 
 to get a copy after that little sip of Hot Coffee 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snahretep
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 28, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  I got this game last year, and I cant stop playing! Every morning, I would get up and go downstairs 
 and play this very cool game! I gave the sound a little less just because the swearing just goes 
 past the limit, but the music is the best! You can put your own music on it!
  
  So I gave it and 8.4.
  
  The graphics good but the characters need more detail, CJ and his 
 homies look overall the best in the game. I think the value of the game is valuable that I would 
 sell this and a price of 290.99$. If someone stole this game from me, there as good as dead! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomthebomb1941
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 27, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  I thought GTA Vice City was a far better game. San Andreas is just trying to do too many things 
 at once. Its far too lifelike they have over complicated what could have been a brilliant game. 
 There are far too many things you have to do i mean you have to continuously go to the gym, you 
 have watch what you eat so you don't get fat and then when youve sorted things out you get a gang 
 war in which you are continuously forced to go and protect your turf while your trying to do several 
 other things at the same time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xiongsy
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 26, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  This is the bestest game (GTA San Andreas) ever i played (GTA Series) . They improves their graphics, 
 sound and controls. And more features like chanege the body of the car, helicopter got light when 
 you pressshift on the night you be able to see the light. But something is missing in the PC version 
 of GTA: San Andreas did not have two player mission. I wish the next GTA (GTA IV) got two player mission 
 for the PC Version of GTA IV. And i also whish GTA IV 
  Have PC. PS3, XBOX360, PS2 and XBOX version. I can"t understand why gamespot only give GTA: San Andreas 
 only 9.0 (superb) . I mean PC version. Man did you mean GTA: Vice City is better than GTA: San Andreas. Next 
 time, gamespot should thing properly to give a review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjhrules
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 24, 2006 7:30 pm PT
Review:  I really loved GTA Vice City. The feeling in that game was amazing and the radio soundtracks gave 
 you the right feeling. So when I heard that San Andreas was out I bought it right away. But I made 
 a misstake. 
  
  This game has about the same gameplay as Vice City had, but there is one big problem... the feeling. 
 You don't get the same great feelnig in this game as you did in Vice City. You don't really get 
 to know your character and you don't really like him. There is no real storry in this game.
  
  Maybe this game is for all the black people in USA because I can't stand listening to that 
 "music" if you can call it music and I can't really get in to the situation. Maybe black people 
 can feel more for the maincharacter.
  
  Waiting for GTA 4!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kash_1095
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 24, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  GTA: San Andreas 6th game in the GTA series- and is the best by far.
  
  Gameplay:
  Freakin awsome gameplay. Instead of one city you play an entire state- the state of san andreas, 
 In this state there is an amazingly alot of things to do so you will never be bored. Plus you got 
 a good story to boot
  
  Graphics:
  Although the Environments are good- There is ALOT of aliasing and the character models are ugh- 
 Their hands are stuck together and their facial animation sucks when not in a cutscene.
  
  Sound:
  Awsome radio Station- Although not as inspired as the one of vice city, the radio stations 
 are still pretty good, Great Voice acting all around from Celebritys such as James Woods, The Game, 
 Big Boy etc
  
  Value: 
  The story would take you about 20-30 hours to beat, but thats just the story- there's still lots 
 to do after the story- This game has alot to offer and will be played over and over again.
  
  Tilt:
  Good camera.
  
  This game is amazing and anyone who doesnt own this either lives 
 in a hole or has an overprotective mother
  
  if you dont already-
  play this game
  you dont know what you are missin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hajo1982
Rating: 2.2
Date: May 24, 2006 12:31 am PT
Review:  This game offers a lot of different things: racing, fighting, RPG-elements, shooting etc. That's 
 a good thing, right? Well, not exactly. The people over at Rockstar have managed to get every single 
 feature wrong!! This is mainly due to the controls. These are so terrible, that you'll get frustrated 
 pretty quickly. For example: you have to use the arrows or AWSD-buttons to move and you have to 
 use your mouse to adjust the camera (which you'll HAVE to do to be able to see all the things you'll 
 need to see!) . This combination doesn't work AT ALL. One moment you're driving your car, next moment 
 you're watching your car from the BOTTOM because you slightly moved your mouse... result: CRASH!!!. 
 And how about fighting? That's even worse. You simply cannot avoid to hit your buddy in the face 
 with a bat every once in while (not because you hate him, but because the controls don't react 
 normally) . This doesn't effect his mood fortunately, but it makes the game very unrealistic. Aiming 
 a shot with a gun is a pain as well and I can go on and on about this...
  
  Anyway, MAYBE the controls are better if you own a gamepad (don't even consider this game if you 
 only own a mouse and a keyboard!) , but I wouldn't know. I'm not going to buy one for this game 
 anyway, since more is wrong with it. Cars and bikes react very unnatural. They feel way to 'light' 
 and are more like toy cars. When you crash while you're on a bike, your body will fly through the 
 air like a puppet for example... not realistic. It makes the game feel like a comedy (a bad one!) . 
 
  
  As for the RPG-elements. They are badly implemented as well. Sure, it's nice to be able to walk 
 in a gym to train your muscles or to walk in a store to change your looks. However, in this game 
 it feels more like a task than something fun. 
  
  On top of this, the graphics are really average at best, so DON'T get this game. I know I belong 
 to the minority with this review, but please don't let the hype get to you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: miketama2
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 22, 2006 9:54 am PT
Review:  I like GTA/SA, for the most part. i like what most people liked about the games, (gta) , killing, 
 robbing, being a bad guy. the cars are nice, bikes are alot of fun. The 500 is the best bike in 
 the game for speed but i loved the sound of the 900. "ZERO, and LEARNING TO FLY" really bite. same 
 for the "getting hungry" stuff. but i am sure others liked it. so i see why it is in there. I would 
 say if your going to have me need a shower then give me one in a house... joking... 
  I do find that all the empty space that is no good for anything but riding around in is a bit much, 
 and think maybe it could have been used for jumps, or something. 
  Car modding, is something i found fun at first. then found out there was nothing to do with the 
 car after I did it so i have no idea what it is good for, i did like to see the "sandking" as i 
 like the way it looks and drives. Maybe they could have had a site to post your best mod car on... 
 or something like that.
  Getting a 4 star wanted level for going to the other islands is a bit stupid. My thought is it 
 is like the airports, if i can get in early so be it. it is to you to make it harder on me to get 
 there. 
  Gambling was fun untill i had more money then i could spend. 
  Girlfriends I found to be a waste of time. they all did the same thing and did not give you anything 
 you could not just take anyways.
  I am not sure what the cranes did, if anything. but the recking ball was a real bummer. 
  The 
 planes are alot of fun, but before you know it youre out of air space to fly in, really liked the 
 big one in the hanger. and the hydro was a blast. The boats just bite. 
  The" easter eggs" where fun but all a bit to easy to find and get to... love the nothing up here 
 one... 
  It one of the games I find myself replaying all the time. and love trying to find new or better 
 ways to do things. 
  In all very good game, can not wait for the next one.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jdpunk
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 21, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  This GTA Game takes place in San Andreas, many people just think its another GTA game but its not.. Oh 
 no is it not! There is loads of content in this new GTA including spray painting, new weapons, 
 in game character stats, crazy and fun missions, and it still remains to have its addicting ways. 
 Your character is Carl Johnson.. wait I thought you said you could customize your character? You 
 can, you can go to barbershops, clothes stores, tattoo shops and it doesn't stop there either. 
 Want your guy to be big and buff? Why not head over to the jym and do some lifting. Not up for 
 that, just want to lounge around and eat and be fat? You can! You can pretty much completely customize 
 your character. Therefore this is one GTA game that you need. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marcinkonys
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 21, 2006 3:44 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto is a classic. Its simply the best free roam action game till date. The fifth 
 game in the GTA universe is the best one, yet, featuring a long and fun storyline.
  
  Your name is Carl Johnson, or CJ for short. While you were out of the city, your mum was killed 
 in San Andreas by a local gang called The Ballaz. You get to SA, and you see a big mess in your 
 house in Grove Street. Your brother, Sweet, explains you what happened here. Now, its time to 
 revenge.
  There are many gangs in the game  Grove Family, the Ballaz, the Triads, etc. Each gang wears different 
 clothes, so its easy to recognize them. Your gang wears green, the Ballaz wear pink, the Triads 
 wear black, etc. If two different gang members meet, they start fighting. You can make your gang 
 member follow you by pointing the crosshair at him, and pressing G. The more Respect you have, 
 the more gang members you can order  you can make them start / stop following you, or make them 
 go to the place you point the crosshair at.
  
  Yes, Respect. There are many statistics in the game: Respect, Fat, Muscle, Sex Appeal, and more. 
 You can see these stats in-game by simply pressing the TAB key. There are also driving and shooting 
 skill stats. You can view them and all other stats by going to the main menu and clicking Stats. 
 All stats can be improved. For example, eat much and your fat will increase. Its not recommended, 
 though, because you wont be able to run fast. Respect can be gained by passing missions, or making 
 a big chaos in the city (shoot many cops, their choppers, tanks, etc.) . You can improve your driving 
 and shooting skills by practicing. Well, you dont even need to practice. I. e., if you drive much, 
 your driving skill increases eventually. Same goes for shooting. Shoot much with a weapon, and 
 its stats will increase.
  
  The toughest to increase is your muscle  youll have to go to a gym and work out. I dont care 
 if its more realistic or not. Its simply stupid. Having to do the same thing for about 30 minutes 
 gets very boring. What do you have to do? Select an exercise, and start mashing the mouse / keyboard 
 until your muscle bar increases. It progresses very slow. Plus, youll have to go eat often, because 
 when you work out, your fat decreases. If your fat reaches zero, muscles stop growing, and start 
 decreasing slowly. Always have a little fat.
  
  You can change Cars appearance  hairstyle and clothes. Hairstyle can be changed by going to the 
 hair-dresser ; clothes  at one of many different cloth shops (you can buy accessories there, too 
 ; for example, glasses) . When you buy some clothes, you can choose which ones to wear by going 
 to the wardrobe. Theres one in each safehouse. Safehouses are apartments you can buy. While in 
 them, you can save your game, and change clothes. There are safehouses all around the map. Since 
 its huge, you should buy more than one apartment, to save time.
  
  The game storyline is amazingly long. It will take you about twenty hours to pass the main missions. 
 But there are many side missions, too  taxi missions, vigilante missions, firetruck missions, 
 and more. Each side mission can get you cash. You also get bonuses after, for example, riding ten 
 fares in a row in taxi missions or extinguishing ten fires in a row in firetruck missions. You 
 can do side missions for as long as you want. Better hurry, though, because youve a limited amount 
 of time. However, each time you finish the objective (drive a fare, extinguish a fire, etc.) , the 
 time boosts. Also, each time you do an objective, you get more and more cash. But fail an objective 
 once, and you will have to start all over again.
  
  Now, lets talk about music! Like in all other GTA games, San Andreas has radio stations. You can 
 listen to rock, rap, hip-hop, and other types of music. The funny commercials are back, too! Moreover, 
 if you want, you can even make your own radio station  put the shortcuts of the music you want 
 in the San Andreas User Files folder, and youre done! You can listen to music while riding most 
 of the vehicles.
  
  San Andreas is the first Grand Theft Auto game that features stealth. You can slit NPCs throats 
 with a knife, use shadows, and more. There are missions you can pass undetected  while youre 
 in the dark, and cant be seen, the blip on the radar indicating you turns blue (normally, its 
 white) . Stealth is essential when doing burglaries (yes, you can rob houses in this game)  if 
 you make too much noise or someone in the house sees you, they call the police. There are night 
 and thermal vision goggles in the game, too, but they arent as cool as they sound. To be honest, 
 theyre pretty much useless, since you can easily see in the dark without them.
  
  San Andreas is a very cool game. But I dont recommend it to little ones, because theres a lot 
 of swearing. Heck, theres even a patch that unlocks sex scenes! (I hope kids arent reading this) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rei_gs69
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  its predecessors were a tough act to follow, much less top. in fact, grand theft auto 3 and gta: 
 vice city were so good, they took the gaming industry by storm upon their release. the latest installment 
 of the gta franchise, san andreas, in comparison, is no longer groundbreaking a concept, but makes 
 it predecessors seem like they've been runnin around in a ballpark, whereas san andreas covers 
 an entire stadium. the graphics of the pc version was taken to the limit, far beyond gta vice city 
 graphics. it has the free-roaming with a story-based gameplay. its value or lifespan is definitely 
 unarguable, you can play this game till hell freezes over. the sound effects, comendable. it had 
 the 90's hits from various genres and having celebrities voice the characters was a great idea. 
 ambitious in scope and complexity, this is a gaming masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherifelgohary
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 19, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  General/Summary:
  I am a football fan and as the biggest game of the year for me (Pro Evo 4) came out just two weeks 
 ago, my excitment about GTA was low. I only really started thinking about buying it earlier this 
 week. I had doubts about the game as whilst i enjoyed vice city and gta 3 and played them both 
 for around 30-40 hours, they never really hooked me. I was wrong to doubt. GTA San Andreas is an 
 awesome game. It is set at the perfect time, 92 with all the gangsters and 'homies' and being a 
 huge hip hop fan it just feels right. Don't listen to the guy below IGN and Gamesradar were right, 
 this deserves 9.9/99% as it is that good.
  
  Gameplay:
  Same as before but better!! The huge map means no more claustophobia, I drove for like 15 minutes 
 just randomly around and never came close to the grey forbidden area you get at the start. Yet 
 the bit i was driving in was only 1 6th of the map!! unbelievable. I like the new fighting moves 
 you can learn down the gym and find the RPG character development thing interesting but a little 
 wierd.
  
  Graphics:
  Yeah the graphics are not brilliant but they aren't terrible and when you are playing a game this 
 good who cares. Maybe all you FIFA fans might complain about the graphics as you clearly dont understand 
 gaming but other than them, dont let the graphics deter you.
  
  Sound:
  The new radio is amazing!! You got Dre, 2pac, NWA, Public enemy and loads more its like they are 
 playing my CD collection!! Brilliant! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Encimedes
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 19, 2006 4:31 am PT
Review:  GTA games put you in the shoes of a criminal on his way to waste the good and fight the road to 
 become a big Mafia man.
  GTA is all that was good in the previous GTA games, with huge amount of new content. Never the 
 hood felt that good.
  
  The good:
  Huge world and solid graphics to look at, great action gameplay and incredible plot and great voice 
 acting, upgraded tilt and moves, improved driving, tons of new options such as swimming and gambling, 
 better AI than Vice City, famous songs on the radio (such as Guns n' Roses) , great gang fights, 
 more realistic than ever, funny dialogs, you really feel you become better with time moves. And 
 tons more things.
  
  The bad:
  It can be frustrating to move in such a huge world, the radio isn't as good as Vice City's radio, 
 the sound has bugs, the tilt isn't perfect and suffers some minor bugs, CJ is a sadistic psyco 
 and the plot doesn't give an answer for that, some of the missions are frustaring and boring 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kunal_dey
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 19, 2006 4:00 am PT
Review:  This game is outstanding on the respect of it's flexibility. It let u do all the stuffs, whatever 
 u want. simply because of it's low constraints the game is different from the others games. Just 
 one negative thing about this game is it's graphics. That did not satisfy me well, all because it's 
 a 2005 release, graphics are desired to be much more detailed and soothing just like DOOM3. Leaving 
 this drawback behind I must consider the game is a real jewel, it's an awesome creation that let 
 your but non-moving for hours. Highly addictive and highly anticipated this GTA sequel is the best 
 of the lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decomposed35
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 16, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  Gta San Andreas is definely one of the best games that i have plaid. It's the kind of game that 
 you can't stop playing.
  The tipe of game that the gta serie gives is one of the best for the freedom that you have to do 
 everything that you want. And in San Andreas this part is even better with lots of places that 
 you can get inside and missions that take you to amazing places.
  Even with all that gta sa still lose in some parts to Vice City. In my opinion the storyline in 
 VC is superior. The story in SA isn't bad but it isn't as exiting as the one in VC.
  Another problem is that the towns in SA are not so explored. You hare two missions here, two there 
 and that's it. The map comport hundred more missions than that.
  But gta is gta it will never be bad and even with this errors it is still a great game to play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwnr
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 24, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  The gameplay was the best I've seen in all the post-GTA III releases. It is a lot easier to shoot 
 people due to the manual aim (auto-locking is for losers) . When you fire a gun, nearby crowds of 
 people react accordingly. 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics were pretty good, but not the best. No bullet holes, no decals. I can't imagine how 
 tedius the work on the game world was like. The world is incredibly huge, situated in 3 different 
 cities. Each city and location is very detailed, with shops, houses, roads and plants. 
  
  Sounds:
  The gunshot sounds were very unrealistic, especially for the minigun and the 9mm pistol. 
 Miniguns sound like loud explosions repeating very rapidly, instead of a lawn mower running out 
 of fuel. The ambient sound was very cleverly chosen for this game. The people talking was professionally 
 recorded. 
  
  Value:
  I would say get this game. It kills so much time. I could spend a whole day playing GTA San Andreas. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henryfreeman
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 10, 2006 3:22 am PT
Review:  The best game so far, this game has got everything that makes GTA great and a load of other stuff 
 to make it even better. The size of San Andreas is huge with so many different places each with 
 its own charm. The story is great, the missions are great, everything about this game is great.
 
  The graphics are not great but its got the GTA look that we all love.
  If you're a PC owner the game gets even better. There are so many Mods to make the game even better.
 
  If you haven't played a GTA before then play the others first otherwise your gonna be ruined for 
 the ordinary 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 7, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto has always been a great game on the console. But why not give it a try on the 
 PC? In fact there's no reason why not to try it on the PC because it's a great game on the PC as 
 well.
  
  Gameplay stays the same in this version as the other versions. You have the carjacking, the flying, 
 the pool playing, the boxville missions, the gang wars, the arcade machines, and really everything 
 else the others have. Gameplay stays pretty much the same regardless of the fact that it's PC, 
 except for the controls. The controls are a royal pain to mess with, in that the keyboard setup 
 is present and sometimes can be frustrating. Some missions require you to shoot at fleeing cars, 
 and all the buttons can represent a problem when trying to do this. The controls are most definitely 
 a down.
  
  Okay, graphics are good, unless you computer isn't very powerful. You will need a fairly good computer 
 to run GTA well. If you do the game should play well enough to see what you're doing and where 
 you're going. Sometimes the graphics can get a little slow, and can be a pain, but it doesn't happen 
 too much which is good. Aside from this the graphics are good and you should almost feel like you're 
 playing on a console rather than the PC. The guns, characters, blood, vehicles, etc., all look 
 great. With the cutscenes, they are represented pretty well except for the slowness that sometimes 
 comes through. Other than these few things the graphics are top-notch.
  
  Sound is a bit of a problem here. Most of the time sound is good, but sometimes the sound just 
 disappears. You'll be shooting your gun and all of a sudden you'll hear this weird deep rumbling 
 sound that's supposed to be the gun, and during this no other sound is heard except maybe for some 
 rain. Car engine sounds are gone, voices are gone, and virtually all other SFX are nonexistent 
 except for the radio. These random retards of sound is bothersome, and a definite down on the platform.
 
  
  Value is great, in that the game offers some serious playtime. You'll spend time in gang wars, 
 causing mayhem, doing side missions (pimping, fire truck, ambulance, vigilante, car races, demolition 
 derbies, etc.) , gambling, etc. There is too much to do, and one will take plenty of time trying 
 to do everything that there's to do in the game. The value is a big fat plus on the platform. To 
 make it even more worth it is the fact the game is only $20 at EB Games.
  
  Tilt is maximum enjoyment and engrossment. It's addicting and absolutely fun to play. Anyone who 
 likes driving/shooting will find enough to love about Grand Theft Auto San Andreas. Though it may 
 not have the easy controls or the sharp graphics of a console, it still has it's pros and is most 
 definitely a game of recognition and old school fun.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: OleYeller2113
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 6, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  San Andreas is the latest installment (As of May 2006) of what is, arguably, the most controversial 
 series in the gaming industry. This game continues along the same lines as the previous installments 
 with the hallmarks of the GTA series... things like stealing cars, picking up ho's, drugs, killing 
 cops, rival gang members and anyone else you darn well please. Even if this sort of gaming material 
 isn't your cup of tea, there's just something admirable about this game.
  
  You definately have to admire the graphics and sound in the game. Whether you're in the heart of 
 a downtown city during a storm, or out in the desert at sunset you definately feel like you're 
 in the landscape. It is fairly apparent that a great deal of attention was paid to most every single 
 virtual square foot of land present in the game. And when it comes to the soundtrack, I'd say it's 
 a pretty good treat. Sure, when one might think of a game like GTA rap music , and other "urban" 
 genres might be the first thing to come to mind but there's plenty for us folks that don't care 
 for rap, ranging from some easy listening stuff, jazz and hard rock.
  
  Definately the thing that probably blew my mind away the most was the sheer size of the game map. 
 I've heard many complain that the map is simply too large and detracts from the enjoyability of 
 the game, but I definately enjoy how they incorperated different environments and conditions (ranging 
 from mountain peaks to deserts) into the game landscape. There's certainly a lot to explore and 
 a lot of land to cover when compared to GTA 3 or Vice City. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamie_w_91
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 30, 2006 3:49 am PT
Review:  One of the best games I've played and highly addictive. 
  You play as Carl Johnson who returns to Los Santos to find out who has killed his moma. Along with 
 Big Smoke, Ryder and your bruv you go around tearing up S**T around Los Santos fighting ballas 
 for the respect of the hood.
  
  The characters to me are based on Dead Rappers, CJ = Tupac Big Smoke = B. I. G & Ryder = Eazy E.
 
  
  GTA San Andreas is by far the best in the series. I liked all the fun filled missions and the hood 
 wars paticulary. To enjoy most of this game you can't cheat. Also new to GTA is "Girlfriends" that 
 you can obtain by a few missions/Being fat or thin what ever floats their boat. If you ask me this 
 is a game you should buy as it matches all expectations and is a classic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lndrek
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 27, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  From playing Grand Theft Auto: Vice City, this game has surpassed all other previous GTA and leaves 
 a new thread of gaming experience in our hearts. A lot of wishes from Vice City-gamers had come 
 to expand the game map into at least 3 islands, and yet, San Andreas, extended its city into four 
 large islands which will take about at least 160 hours to dive through lakes, drive through forests, 
 and fly through the skies. 
  
  Another wish I had was to have a 2nd-person shooter, a whole new map, great interaction, and awesome 
 graphics. Then from the hot spot came Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, which swept my feet off the 
 ground. This stunning new-age cars and a whole lot of missions and secrets came knocking just at 
 my door when it was released. This is a game I recommend for all ages, of course, excluding minors, 
 because of its some mature contents that might not please parents. However, as a mature gamer, 
 and a car addict, Id like to leave a comment GREAT WORK in this game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leandro29
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2006 10:46 pm PT
Review:  GTA: San Andreas is the brilliant about gang life in 70-80's. It is showing how gang bands that 
 time were rooling the roost in the streets. A lot of nice babes in game :) ) ) improved grapihics 
 compare to other GTA series. 
  Sound system also have been enhanced and developed. However, the gray and un colorful life of 70-80's 
 personaly from my point of view, makes all this stuff unseemed. Do you know what I mean, I dont 
 like that time cars and dresses and etc. Well in this game you will have to drive that rubish cars 
 and dress that stupid stuff!!!
  
  A bit is cool the hair stuff and tatoo. You can get different type of tatoo and hair or facial 
 styles. 
  Also game has an a revolutionary improved from reallity point of view. I mean now we have night 
 and day (was before too, but did not felt like now) , where some missions taken part. I mean in 
 some missions you should come at exact time where says that. Well the what the hell you could od 
 to spent that amount of time:::: here you go, go to eat in different pizza and burger stores and 
 then go to the gim to buff up you muscles. However game gives a limit for exercises as well, other 
 wise you could do different type of stuff. You will find about tham by the time when it will be 
 available to do so.
  
  This is great gameplay we have ever seen in GTA series. So yeah we could say that game is great!
 
  
  Ride up and smash the streets of San Andreas! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lovinkwonboa
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2006 4:42 am PT
Review:  YEAH, I HOPE U PEOPLE CAN JUST KEEP THIS GAME AWAY FOR KIDS, CUZ IN FUTURE THEY WILL KILL COPS 
 AND ARMY, just becareful homie,
  
  Gameplay: oh is GTA San Andreas, this game have a intersting and excited storyline, this game can 
 blow u away, u control a black guy called CJ and he was on holiday in Liberty City, and his brother 
 Sweet tell his the news that his mum got kill in a gang war against the rival street gangs in Los 
 Santos called the Ballas, all you need to do in this game is just running arounld the street and 
 kick people ass one by one, and you can just do other story mission which can tell the story about 
 the games and you will have fun explore another city and more... but, San Andreas is not the city, 
 is a state in America, there is 3 city in the state, but there is no robbery store like Vice City 
 do, and there is bicycle for u to sroll arounld the city, and you can feel like you are in L. A., 
 Las Vegas and San Francisco, which make you feel like you on holiday in California and Nevada, 
 but please don't think that killing cops is cool, u will get a lovely life in prison if u killed 
 a cop in California.
  
  Graphics : the graphics is munch more better than GTA 3 and Vice City, and the killing will sometime 
 make people who is scared of blood fainted, PLEASE, DON"T TRY ANY KILLING METHOD AT HOME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  
  Sound : the sound, well i don't like the Hip Hop station, i always turn in to Rock station, the 
 sound of the gun fire are not that shocking, this game also have a good voice acting and YOUNG 
 MAYLAY shounld be pround of it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ganeshs86
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 25, 2006 5:35 am PT
Review:  So my love of all thing GTA continues. I was hooked to gta 3 then fell madly in love with gta vc 
 and now gta sa comes up. It is the best game in gta series and what will they come up with next?? 
 Rockstar has added mindboggling new things like te Harrier jet and hundreds of new cars. Old cars 
 r getting faster and many new ones like the bullet has been added, Now we have a school for driving 
 ,flying, biking and boating.
  
  Only complaint i could have was the enormous size of the map. It was very difficult and boring to 
 go from one part of the map to another whether u have to complete a mission or collect things like 
 horseshoes or tags.
  Oh yes there are more things to collect now: tags, horseshoes and oysters
  But the reward is not 
 so great this time. u have to wait to vwait to get ur hands on the minigun till later in the game.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metaltude
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 24, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  I played vice city for hours... and it kept me playing.. but I just can't get the addictive thing 
 in this San Andreas... 
  after a few hours of playing I really had the feeling I had seen it all, there was nothing to drive 
 me any further...
  
  even after trying to "pimp it up" (to stay in style) with some mods and appearance and weapon editors, 
 I still didn't see it. just couldn't find what I was looking for, the "touch"....
  
  For me personally is the story crap too... A few gangs who oppose each other and some corrupted 
 cops. I'm not really into the gangsta stuff and so on. I know you can choose for it not too go 
 to the mission spot, but you will get very bored easily and you won't come much further...
  
  this is the first game in a long time I removed from my PC without even trying finishing it... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13091988
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 24, 2006 1:04 am PT
Review:  i thougth that the first 3 were good, but when it all changed to 3D i was amazed by the sudden 
 change, but it is so appropiate, i like all the GTA games but San Andreas is the best i have played, 
 and this game is the best i have played in the collection, but i havwe to say that the missions 
 are not exactly hard to complete. I enjoy the fact that you can now personalize your player, with 
 clothes, pimped out cars and the gym, this game just makes me want to buy the next one out of sheer 
 excitment, that it is better than San Andreas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SK64killer
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  um........ well i liked this game becasue the graghics were awsome and thought it was cool how 
 i got to have gang members and go around and take teritore and **** like that, but WOW nice graghics 
 compared to all the other grandtheft autos so ya and all the hot chicks, but that game was awsome, 
 so as soon as im done with this 100 word review i am going on to a differnty game to wright another 
 review so bye ok well anytime now, almost there, ok gamespot could you maybe take the limit to 
 about 50 words instead of 100 i mean this isnt english class 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flashtek
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 20, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Like the ports of GTA III and Vice City, the PC version of the game has significantly improved 
 textures and support for higher resolutions than the others. The version also allow the player 
 to create their own custom radio station with mp3 files from their computer or CD files ripped 
 to their hard drive. 
  
  PC edition looks great, especially when compared with the low-res PS2 game, but the unmatched power 
 of the PC platform gives it the technical edge. Building your custom radio station is also much 
 easier on the PC, given the Xbox's agonizingly slow CD ripper. This said, the PC version doesn't 
 control nearly as well for the in-car portions, so that's something to keep in mind. 
  
  Overall, you can't go wrong no matter what platform you pick. GTA San Andreas is the same great 
 game on any system. This port just polishes an already outstanding experience to nigh-perfection. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJGraniel
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 26, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  I can't seem to understand why so many people don't like this game. It has a complex storyline 
 full of twists and surprises and will keep you immersed right until the very end. And in case you 
 didn't know, the end is quite a long way in this game. Apart from keeping you hooked, the game 
 features exceptional sound. With over 100 music tracks that you can choose to play it's impossible 
 not to like it. The voice acting is superb, with stars such as Samuel L. Jackson involved. However, 
 a few audio related glitches keep it from perfection. The graphics are also great, with many great 
 animations and a huge map full of wonderful visuals, despite some low quality textures and blocky 
 fingers. The gameplay is revolutionary, being a shooter and incorporating role-playing elements 
 into it. The game gives you more freedom than ever, allowing you to do things such as eat, workout, 
 customize vehicles, buy clothes and improve your respect. This extra detail gives the game even 
 more appeal and keeps the game changing and constantly fun. Overall, this is not a game to be missed 
 and is an amazing one-of-a-kind game of its genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  this game was awesome and even perfect when it was released on ps2 in october 2004 and then when 
 they moved on to xbox and pc in june 2005 then it was amazing and just better especially the pc 
 version which have better controls and better graphics and a multiplayer-mod meaning that you can 
 play online if you download a multiplayer mod which calls "multi theft auto san andreas or you 
 can say "MTA SA" as well. this awesome multiplayer-mod for san andreas let's you play multiplayer, 
 know what i mean ONLINE!!!!!!!!! that rocks!!!!!!!! and it's have a lot of different game modes 
 and there is still a lots of servers that running. and yeah the singleplayer is also amazing so 
 gta san andreas on pc is a lot better than the xbox or ps2 versions of the game, you should buy 
 it (on pc) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fratjoe18
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  OK i remember wheni was 14 or 15 i played gta 3 and i loved that game. i was so shocked that actually 
 a game where you can do what you want actully came out. when vice city came out, i was more impressed, 
 i didnt really like the 80's feel but the game was totally awesome. When San andreas came out it 
 put the icing on the cake, Greatest game ive ever played ever. I cant think of a reason not to 
 vote it a 10. Love it.
  
  the good- everything a masterpiece in my opinion. Awesome graphics gameplay, free to go anywhere 
 you want. 
  
  The ugly- pc version is a little different from the ps2 and xbox version but i dont care its still 
 a 10 from me. You should definetly have this game in your collection no amatter what. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acronix
Rating: 5.9
Date: Apr 15, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Lets talk about the good things: Graphics.
  The graphics are simply good. The detail in the city is the best part of gta: sa, without deubt. 
 People is well made and everything is nice to the eye.
  
  Sound: Nothing special. Just right.
  
  Gameplay: The real bakcdown of this game. Its really 
 hard to move in this game. In Vice City, the controls was better. You walked with a gun, and there 
 was an aim there, and when shoot, the shoot went in THAT direction, not just in front of this game. 
 Also, you need to uso the mouse right button to make an usefull aim, because if not, you will kill 
 your parters.
  Another glitch is its difficulty: in part, its overwhelming because of the previous problems 
 (movement and aim) . Anyway, driving wasnt that bad, just acceptable. Coming back to difficulty, 
 some missions are stupidly too long like, "catch and kill the stupid fool before que escapes". 
 The game make you go in a bike thorugh corridors and alleys, and the "stupid fool" makes amazing 
 movements and never crashes, not like you of course. Example of a problem that makes this game 
 difficult: in some mission, it says: "use the 8numpad and the 2numpad to take the crates" the problem 
 was that sometimes, when picking up the crates, the crtas was not lined with the cargo place, so, 
 when you pressed 2numpad for unload it on the truck, it simply unloaded in the floor. Not to mention 
 that sometimes you have to be lined up with the thing you want to pick up, because CJ is too damn 
 stupid to pick up the crate like any human being.
  
  I could say lots of bad things about this game, but I will end with only one: this game is long 
 because its difficult, and SO DAMN difficult that only really fanatics, retarded ones or people 
 with lots and lots of patience will enjoy this game. I dont get in any of these three, and I think 
 this game was made by retardes (or maybe they simply took too much atention to details, and forgot 
 about everything else.) 
  
  I advise to think twice before getting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jefvhees_basic
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 15, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  I am so addicted i was in my car and accidentally started shooting at innocent beystanders!
  
  No, thats not true, but this is a grat game. If not perfect.
  
  Gameplay:
  Need i say 
 more? There is just tons of things to do, play pool, danced youre ass of in the club, go to the 
 gim, rob houses, play pimpand even lowriding! This allone should be enough to buy the game! REALLY! 
 But like every game, this to has a story! Fore a GTA open world game, the storry is quite intense. 
 With tons and tons of missions to accomplishe!
  
  Graphix:
  A powerfull PC is needed. Thats a downpart. I was expecting a bit more, not a lot, just a little. 
 But there are some nice effects, the character designs are verry decent and the world is verry 
 diverse.
  
  sound:
  A well deserved A++ Great sound track, i'm a roch fan but i really could apreciate the r&b music 
 in this game. Really ads to the experience. Tired of R&b, switch to rock, soul, disco, ore just 
 import youre own songs!
  
  TITT!
  What can i say, i just have a new addiction! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DzeTSNotorious
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 16, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  There are some minor glitches with the game such as cut up people with just there outlines and 
 also there is some background scenery glitches with a plain blue colour that will appear, but this 
 doesn't make it more difficult or less enjoyable.
  
  This game is great when you want to play a gangsta game in the hood it has gang wars, territory, 
 and buisness that are run by the gangs (Big Smoke's crack factory is run by the Los Vargos gang) . 
 Another good thing is the modern day new vechicles, modern day cell phone, famous actors/rappers 
 voices and a reincarnation of old Eaze-E, but they don't have his real voice, and also Jayceon 
 Tayler (A. K. A. THE GAME) is in it, but he just plays some guy and not himself. This game also introduces 
 sky diving, jet planes, drive bys, and girlfriends. This game is everything a playa or balla could 
 want out of a game. 
  
  Words Of Edvice: It don't matter what people do to bring this game down, don't believe the bad 
 hype. Buy this game for sure, no question. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan_rocks29
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 8, 2006 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is an absolutely fantastic game. From start to end, San Andreas will 
 always keep you entertained and happy.
  
  If you don't know, the main aspect of San Andreas is about completing missions for people in the 
 state of San Andreas. All different people that you meet along the way will give you different 
 taks to complete, wether it may be stealing cars, killing people, driving somewhere or racing. 
 When you have completed a mission, you will be rewarded with money and respect. Money can buy you 
 all different things such as guns, clothes, food and tattoos.
  
  Of couse San Andreas isn't all about completing missions, it's also great because of free will. 
 You can do anything you want at any time around the whole state of San Andreas, making the game 
 very fun. It is great exploring the whole state finding all different places and things.
  
  All up, GTA: San Andreas should not be missed by anyone, as it is one of the best video game experiences 
 you could ever have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: __Your-Master__
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 8, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I remember surfing the web during the early summer of 2004, when I discovered the game San Andreas 
 ( PS2 Version ) . It looked sick! Abilty to have respect in your hood, which would cause your homies 
 to be down for you,8 times the size of Vice City, all this charecter, car custimaztion, three huge 
 great city's, and countryside, 4 person drive-bys, propertys, 150 missions, ability to fly planes, 
 and so so much more. I also noticed I wasnt the only person waiting for this game, it had many 
 many huge fan sites, and dedicated forums, with amazing amounts of hits for a game with only 5 
 screens. I will admit, after waiting months, and months, making it the first game in my whole life 
 that I had ever reserved, at first I was dissapointed. R* had lied a little. There was no car washes, 
 and alot of the gang members that were in the screens were no where to be found, but the Eazy-E 
 look alike Ryder alone was well worth this game. I think alot of people rate this game lower than 
 it should be, cause they take for granted the fact that it was simply the most innovative, and 
 incredible game to be ever released, and still is to this day in April of 2006. Look at the stats, 
 this game is still on the gamespot top 50, and it has been here for almost a year!
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay on this game is simply amazing, and it would take FOREVER to explain 
 it all, and tell you how great it is, it is simply just a must play. Everything works nice on the 
 mouse.
  
  Graphics:
  Ok, the graphics on this game were a little bit of a letdown on the PS2, but not here! They are 
 pristine, and if you are packing a hefty PC, getting this for the draw distance alone is worth 
 it.
  
  Sound:
  Best soundtrack to a game EVER! Ok I only listened to the Rap station, and the talk station, but 
 the talk station was tight, and the Rap station was incredible. Featuring real west coast mainstream 
 Rap hits from the early 90's Like Dre's 187, Ice Cubes Check Yoself ( The messenge ) and Too Shorts 
 The ghetto, and many more. Also on this PC Version you can make your own custom tracks ETC. The 
 only problem was when I played it, and when it first came out there was memory leak problems, and 
 sometimes the sound would mess up, but a little patchwork fixed this up.
  
  Value:
  Simple, this game is now cheap as hell, and it is the longest, and biggest free roam game ever 
 made, so this one is obvious.
  
  Tilt: 
  Im not 100% sure what this even means, but im sure San Andreas deserved a 10.0 for it
  
  Bottom 
 Line:
  I NEVER Like to give a game a perfect rating, but this is as close as it gets to it.
  Helping 
 me out:
  You see down below, how you can reccomend this reveiw? Please do, thanks, an send me a friend request 
 any time. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JayJog
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 8, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas produce by the game producing legends Rockstar Games is easy one 
 of the best games i have ever played it has everything you could want in a game. The gameplay is 
 brilliant ,the music is 100% gangster! But the graphics could be improved but you forget about 
 that when the game sucks you in , you can easliy forget the many bugs has. if you do not have this 
 game in your collection why are you sat on your backside surfing the web? get your bakside out 
 that door and buy it now ! As you can never get bored of this game espically if you have the mod-a-ble 
 pc version 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mad_Game_hi5
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 8, 2006 5:36 am PT
Review:  A wonderful game. Real Street Life !!!! CJ has a gang-with a high respect U can recruit more gangsters 
 ! You have a gym (muscle stat) U can eat, swim everything!!! Drving, boat, bike, plane school and 
 skill!! Very much minigames and excelent designed missions!! The cities are huge and terrific!!! 
 You can mod vehicles, jump with parachute!!! get a haircut get awesome clothes!! Weapons are super 
 cool !!! This game is the best but it gets better with mods !!!! You know I got cars like astonmartin, 
 lamborghini, maserati, porsche, audi..... BUY IT!!! You can do everything!! even dance!!
  The story of the game is mysterious and long but captivant ! You will depend of this game trust 
 me !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 7, 2006 10:14 pm PT
Review:  GTA: San Andreas is the brilliant about gang life in 70-80's. It is showing how gang bands that 
 time were rooling the roost in the streets. A lot of nice babes in game :) ) ) improved grapihics 
 compare to other GTA series. 
  Sound system also have been enhanced and developed. However, the gray and un colorful life of 70-80's 
 personaly from my point of view, makes all this stuff unseemed. Do you know what I mean, I dont 
 like that time cars and dresses and etc. Well in this game you will have to drive that rubish cars 
 and dress that stupid stuff!!!
  
  A bit is cool the hair stuff and tatoo. You can get different type of tatoo and hair or facial 
 styles. 
  Also game has an a revolutionary improved from reallity point of view. I mean now we have night 
 and day (was before too, but did not felt like now) , where some missions taken part. I mean in 
 some missions you should come at exact time where says that. Well the what the hell you could od 
 to spent that amount of time:::: here you go, go to eat in different pizza and burger stores and 
 then go to the gim to buff up you muscles. However game gives a limit for exercises as well, other 
 wise you could do different type of stuff. You will find about tham by the time when it will be 
 available to do so.
  
  This is great gameplay we have ever seen in GTA series. So yeah we could say that game is great!
 
  
  Ride up and smash the streets of San Andreas! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-PRIME90
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 7, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  I just got this game for the PC today and in some ways I'm happy and in other ways I'm disapointed.
 
  
  I tend to be finding it pretty difficult to fly planes and helicopters, but this could just be 
 because I'm so use to playing this game on Playstation2.
  
  Though I do find this game has pretty good graphics, even though on alot of the objects in the 
 game you can actually see the pixels, the terrain has much more detail than the Playstation2 version. 
 Sadly I havn't managed to find a way to somehow blur out the pixels so the objects blend more.
 
  
  And the best part of all is that I can download 100% save files because since I have already beaten 
 this game on the Playstation2 I didn't feel like doing it again.
  
  Sadly my game is the second edition and there isn't much available to download for it, like I would 
 really like to download Multi Theft Auto, but there is none available for the second edition yet. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f_muzaka
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 7, 2006 5:48 am PT
Review:  The third instalment of the GTA saga in the 3D age, is as wonderful as a game can be. I had never 
 thought that there were people who could make a game with so much detail, a very high level of 
 entertainment, story line, side missions and side missions for the side missions. I know I sound 
 very enthusiastic but just play the game and if it does not deliver I'll buy it for you.
  From the haircut to buying clothes, tattooing, going out with girlfriends to flying with airplanes, 
 GTA SAN ANDREAS is the best rpg game that exists and undoubtedly in the top ten of all time. Goes 
 unsaid that its the best of its series because its the latest. 
  An instant and undisputed classic
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobby_Milli
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 7, 2006 12:42 am PT
Review:  What an absolutely amazing game!!! 
  
  When I first had the pleasure of installing this beauty on my pc i was completely awed by its superb 
 quality! I installed the game at 11pm and ended up going to bed at five in the morning! Needless 
 to say that i missed work the following day!
  
  San Andreas is perhaps the most complete and well -structured game to date. This is because it 
 manages to capture all the goodies that gaming fans hope and aspire for in one dream package:
 
  
  1. Besides providing a genuinely intriguing storyline, it also gives its lucky owners hours and 
 hours on end as they attempt all the side missions in the game. I honestly dont know how many of 
 those there are, even after having played the game for almost a year now.
  
  2. Leaving the main story line and side missions aside, you can enjoy yet more hours of game play, 
 because the game deserves a 10+++ Replay Value. I am going through it for the fifth time now!!
 
  
  3. The voice acting is definitely the best i have ever heard in any game. The talent of the actors 
 gets you completely immersed in the story, as if you were watching a movie!
  
  4. The combination of armed combat, driving and flying are just some of the basic things CJ can 
 do. Just think of anything a human can do, and CJ can probably do it as well! This was perhaps 
 the most staggering feature of San Andreas as no other game had ever managed to do that. Even combining 
 shooting with driving is so rare for any game. The only ones that managed to do that are the developers 
 of Rockstar games, and with their latest release they took a huge leap forward.
  
  5. Funny as this may seem for a gangster game, there is actually a sense of character development 
 revolving around CJ. This is because you can control his appearance to such an extent, that you 
 end up feeling like you are playing some kind of crazy gangsta RPG!! Its great!
  
  6. The sound is generally outstanding, with everything being just perfect.
  I dont know what 
 the critics of Gamespot are talking about, since i never experienced a sound problem with my system. 
 The surround sound engine of the game is excellent, adding a great touch of realism as to where 
 the sound is coming from. If you can afford to play the game with a 5.1 surround sound and a central 
 subwoofer, then do it, trust me!
  
  7. Violence, crime, sex, gang life, overabusive language, rapping and action! Lets face reality, 
 that's what sells! And that's what San Andreas is all about!
  
  8. If you are fond of 'hot coffee', then you can always have some with the right patch, if you 
 catch my drift!
  
  All that said, i almost feel guilty now that complaining time has arrived. Just a few minor problems 
 are present, which deprive San Andreas of a perfect 10 - a Godly status. First of all, some quite 
 obvious clipping occurs regarding CJ's model depending on the clothes he is wearing. Try dressing 
 him up in the black suit you get from 'Victim', and you'll be amused to see that almost half his 
 neck is sticking out of the collar unrealistically in some of the cutscenes. Also, the hands have 
 always been the talking point of imperfection, both for San Andreas and its predecessor Vice City 
 (yet another masterpiece) . But these flaws are so insignificant compared to the game as a whole, 
 that they are not even worth mentioning.
  
  THE BEST GAME EVER!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: leeyaawn
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 5, 2006 8:01 am PT
Review:  once again, i aint a GTA gamer before, but i thought i'd try it out. now i'm kinda addicted to 
 it, just wanna see how long and far Carl Johnson ( a. k. a your character) can go. 
  
  the missions really challenge me. applying wits, dexterity and good-control over the keyboard are 
 a must in this edition. every mission differs from other shooting-based games. with missions linked 
 really closely to the storyline rather than just shoot-and-kill, you'll be hung on this game for 
 hours on end!
  
  GTA San Andreas has one of the best storylines i've come across in games so far. its so damn long 
 that i really wonder if its ever gonna end. plus ironically i wanna keep it never ending cos its 
 just so intriguing.
  
  with all the vulgar insults and variety of cultures and accents in the game, it adds comic relief 
 to the gangster-orientated game.
  
  nuff said. you should go play it, and come back and write a review on how long your chair stayed 
 warm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RackaDoo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 5, 2006 4:42 am PT
Review:  Forget about the violent parts of this game, like chopping peoples head off with a katana sword. 
 This game is great, and most important of all, very fun to play. As you walk through the story 
 you get to meet different kind of people telling you things, and you're like in the middle of the 
 story. Every guy you meet has a different personalities, some are very funny, others are deceiving 
 traitors. 
  
  All in one, GTA: SA is a masterpiece, because they brought so many topics (such as corrupt police, 
 drugs, gang wars, etc.) into one single adventure giving you quite unlimited freedom in the state 
 of San Andreas. Just get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ceppya
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 1, 2006 1:32 pm PT
Review:  this is a very amazing game. i had played grand theft auto 3 and grand theft auto vice city, and 
 this is even better. the story is innovative, i like the gang war part, and of course how to make 
 the girlfriends happy. the car are better then previous version and also the weapons. it was hard 
 to fly helicopter and airplane in the vice city, but in san Andreas it is as easy as drive a car, 
 amazing.
  there are some exception for this game, the game play is to long, i am not finished it yet till 
 now, and also the graphic requirement is quite high, but overall this is is amazing, great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bento
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  This game is in my top 5 games, and i feel it will stay there for a long time to come. This game 
 provides you with hours and hours of playing time, and that is just the storyline. hours of storyline, 
 months of just free roam, their is plenty of features to keep you coming back to the game, eg. 
 Unique stunts, tags, horsehoes, oysters. They will keep you going a long time. Their is also features 
 like the "triathlon" which is also great fun, so this game packs a very big punch, this game is 
 probably the only game which can keep you at it for such a long time, you are always occupied with 
 something to do, and for a company to make a game like that is amazing, what gamers want is a game 
 that fits that structure, months of playing time, fun, exciting, surprises, great storyline and 
 that is exactly what Rockstar have made, Grand Theft Auto San Andreas, greatest game ever released. 
 No matter what system you play it on you will like it, PC obviously has the upper hand, purely 
 because of the power of the PC, but even on the ps2 or x-box this game is amazing.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_mad
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2006 12:08 am PT
Review:  A city really great and fun. A lot of in-game extras and characters. And, above all, a BIG list 
 of cars, that we can use. From mountain bike to kart and truck, we have almost all the possible 
 vehicles in the worlds.
  The game has got many features, and we may think: "It is the greatest game, we get hooked!"
  
 But something got wrong... CJ don't has the style of Tommy Vercetty. Try to make the environment 
 real in GTA wasn't a great idea, because the game is a dream and a city like Las Venturas diserves 
 a color and life like Vice City and it don't has it.
  The idea of the game is very good, but, in my opinion, it is becoming a bit repetitive. But GTA 
 is always GTA, so this game really deserves 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acemaster7777
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  It's one of the most addictive games i have ever played, its really fun all the different missions 
 and special stuff they have to offer. The Multiplayr on this game is actually really good. I like 
 the fact that you get to choose your own fashion in the game and you get to eat and exercise and 
 get really buff or fat its your choice. Also the recruiting part is cool like having 24/7 personal 
 bodyguards which is cool. Also the great selection of weapons and Styles of fighting you get to 
 learn special moves and crap. Also FINALLY YOU CAN FLY ANYWHERE with AIRLINERS, JETS which is cool. 
 My favorite part is that in ur weapon selection you can parachute which is cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolflegresley
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 29, 2006 10:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is an amazing game, There are a ton of missions to do, Even if you stick with just the 
 main ones you'll ber entertained for hours. Tons of weapons and a great movie like story line. 
 THe voice acting in this game draws you in. The fact that you generate your own revenue makes it 
 fun to take over business (Casino, RF shop, Garage etc) as well as hoods. Theres tons in this game 
 to do from being a cop, construction worker, pilot, taxi driver, Ambulance driver, Pedal bike delivery 
 boy, Gangster, Casino tycoon, Business man, Firefighter, Fall in love, take over a state. The new 
 vehicles are great fun. All and all this is the largest and most complete gta out. The only improvments 
 we will ever see in this series is graphics as this game got the gameplay down perfect this time. 
 This game belongs in every single library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CKYHellview96
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 27, 2006 6:58 am PT
Review:  I've always loved the GTA series... Well, since GTA3 anyway, the top-down style isn't my thing... 
 But anyway, I can definitely say GTA: San Andreas is the best that the GTA series has to offer.
 
  
  As GTASA was originally designed for the PS2, which isn't getting any younger, the graphics aren't 
 exactly cutting-edge, however they're still pretty good, and the PC version gets the added bonus 
 of some pretty good hi-res stuff, and many extra little details (fire hydrants that can be smashed, 
 for example) . The facial details aren't all that great, however the presentation of the game and 
 the cities look great.
  
  The soundtrack is fantastic, with many varied radio stations to listen to as you're driving around. 
 My personal favourite is K-DST, which has great songs such as "Freebird" by Lynard Skynard, and 
 Billy Idol's "White Wedding", and to top it all off, Guns N Roses frontman Axl Rose plays the DJ! 
 There's some great voice acting in this game, with the likes of Samuel L. Jackson and James Woods 
 providing some excellent dialog as Officer Frank Tenpenny and Mike Toreno respectively. Some of 
 the language is very strong - you'll hear F this and F that a LOT during play, some of which is 
 pretty much uncalled for.
  
  As you'd expect, GTA: San Andreas plays really well. You can finally swim and climb things, which 
 adds a lot more to the on foot travelling. There's a bunch of stats to keep an eye on, you will 
 have to eat every now and then to stay healthy, but if you eat too much you better hit the gym 
 and burn that fat, otherwise you won't run as fast or jump as high as you would if you were thin. 
 Some of the cars handle a bit poorly, however I'm sure not all cars handle perfectly, and yes there's 
 driving stats which do help with some of the handling when you increase them. Overall GTA: San 
 Andreas plays extremely well, and there's plenty of side-missions to do as well as the main story.
 
  
  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is one of the last PC GTA games until at least 2007, but it sure 
 should last long enough, especially if you mod the game or play one of the several multiplayer 
 mods that are in production. A great game, with even more potential when it comes to modification. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0rgasm
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 26, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  no details have been spared in the making of this game, no only do you hae to eat, workout, and 
 drive your friends around, buut threr are also many smaller details such as weather changes, fish 
 in the sea and water, you can even chang your look by buying clothing, getting a hair cut and getting 
 tattoos this game is a must have
  * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * 
 * * * * * * 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Half-Vampire
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2007 1:27 am PT
Review:  This game is just the best game in the series! Within this game, you can race, you can play pool, 
 you can kill the pedestrian, kill cops, win a money through jackpot and gambling, find a girlfriend, 
 buy a hooker, buy new shirt, modified your cars, and many more! Every style of gameplay in one 
 game. RPG, Shooter, Action, Racing, Sport. You just need to buy this game to play all kind of gameplay.
 
  
  The PS2 version is ugly. But PC version is beautiful. With full environment shadow and such. The 
 control is much easier than Vice City. Total freedom in camera movement, within a car or by foot. 
 Every minute you spend on this game is worth it, you can master your skill in driving, shooting 
 or even diving. Even Driv3r is not as fun as this game. An embarrassing attemp to copy from the 
 master, i'd say. But the texture is a little bit ugly though. And the particle that spawn while 
 u shoot also a little ugly.
  
  All GTA series is a must play game. San Andreas is the no.1!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_amil3
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2006 4:42 am PT
Review:  To begin with, i must say that ive played vice city before that one, so much of this review is 
 based on experience i had with VC.
  
  Gameplay: 
  As always, for a Gta franchise there is not much to be added about. The moves n buttons summarise 
 about all u could wish 4 action. However i still think there are some superficial controls which 
 just make the list longer n could have been avoided.
  
  Rated: 9
  
  Graphics: 
  Improvements from Vice City CANNOT be unnoticed and i appreciated it for the amount of flexibility 
 it provides. I had the 'opportunity' of playing it through 2 video cards, one 64mb the other 256mb. 
 I thus found out that its not one game which harshly required from the average gamer any VERY high 
 end vid card to enjoy. However, its sad that i still experienced a glitch which also was in vice 
 city, which is some bad spawning events. Eg while in an aicraft, vehicles would not spawn as easily 
 below as it should if the distance to them was horizontal and not vertical. But thats minor of 
 course.
  
  Rated: 8
  
  Sound:
  Well i do not have as bad opinions as some reviewers seem to. This is mainly why i chose to review. 
 The music is... weell.. tries to match the games characters, story etc. Its true i think there was 
 too much rap. Compared to vice city, the music is not up to the mark, thats a fact. Luckily enough 
 , mp3s can be introduced to the game. (I did appreciate much of the country style music, though 
 im not a fan) . what i really found awesome were the things which were SAID in the game. I mean 
 the spoken, conversations , exclamations, dialogue were BRILLIANT! This is wat i wanted to say 
 :)
  
  Rated : 9
  
  Value: Thats a game u cant miss. To fans of the franchise, to everybody:
  PLAY GTA SA
  
  
 Rated : 10
  
  Tilt:
  I discovered many new things in the game which were not in VC.
  The variety of the NEW is amazing. Exercising, ugrading skills etc.. SUPERB concept. Nevertheless, 
 i prefered vc for the music, atmosphere and story. AND the feeling that i had when i finished vc 
 100%, of becoming a real GODFATHER of the city. This lacked in SA from my pt of view.
  
  Rated ; 9
  
  Average those u get (acc to gamespot's 1 decimal place allowed) 9.2 :)
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  dj_amil3 --- Grayfox --- |
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockstarrem
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 23, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto San Andreas is a Multi-Platform game. It comes in PS2, PC, and XBOX. What are 
 the differences in these ones are sometimes. I will first review the storyline of the game.
  
  Grand Theft Auto San Andreas is set in San Andreas (hardly noticeable heh) , a state in America. 
 It offers 3 major Cities. Los Santos, the city where you start out on, San Fierro, the next city, 
 and Las Venturas as your third. Los Santos is basically the same as Los Angeles, the stereotypes 
 and all. San Fierro = San Francisco, and Las Venturas Las Vegas. 
  
  Los Santos is a city of gang wars. The gang's in this city are :
  
  Grove Street Families: 
 Your gang
  
  The Ballas: Rival Gang
  
  The Vargos: Rival Gang
  
  You start out on the street with a little cash and a bicycle. This is a new addition to the GTA 
 series, bicycles. 
  
  
  
  Now the game-play engine.
  
  The gameplay is very well done, there are some stupid glitches but the game is very fun. Just like 
 the rest of the GTA's you walk into a marker and the mission starts, the name of the mission EG 
 "Big Smoke" usually followed by a cutscene.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics engine is SWEET in the PC version. Xbox Version Anti Aliasing sucked on my TV. PS2 
 Graphics are great for when they came out. Although the graphics are sweet on the PC, this means 
 a SWEET PC. Im not saying Half Life 2 or Doom 3 stuff, but a pretty decent GPU and Motherboard.
 
  
  Multiplayer..
  
  The console versions have a built in Multiplayer engine, to me it kind of sucks. You dont get to 
 do much. On the other hand, the PC version has a few mods that are fantastic. The current Deathmatch 
 one is GTA: Rumble. Race Mod: MTA: SA, and the soon to come SA-MP looks the best in my opinion. 
 
  
  Soundtrack:
  
  I am not a big fan of Rap so I cannot judge this. I did like teh Country and Classic rock stations 
 though. The Talk radio station could have been better. 
  
  Well I hope this helped you out :)
  
  Review Written By:
  
  rockstarrem
  
  
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abhilash_123
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 22, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  Best game in the series. I have finished playing it thrice and got over 50 to 60 hrs gameplay eachtime. As 
 ive already played GTA: iii; GTA: VC its very easy to play it. No matter how many times you play it 
 u'll never remember the word BORE. If you feel so there are many MODs on net so you can modify your 
 game. You can addon new  and many more. (Most of u 
 Knew It.) Its a game which developes many of your skills (both mentally and some times physically) . If 
 anyone still didnt buy or play this game, dont spare anymore. Buy & play it immediately. If u dont 
 u'll be a loser. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChotaZorro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  GTA: San Andreas is a really awesome game. Although the graphics and sound effects are not that 
 great but the voice acting is awesome. The gameplay balances it and makes it one heck of an awesome. 
 It's a must play for people who love shooters. There are many things to do in this game like driving, 
 flying, shooting, starting gangwars, etc. This game has plenty of variety and value. There is so 
 much to do in this game. There are many places in this game and the places are so cool! Although 
 there is sexual content and bad language use in this game but it's awesome. Plain fun! THIS GAME 
 ROCKS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soad_kickass
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 21, 2006 9:32 pm PT
Review:  The sound effects in this game are extremely well done with the exception of gunfire, which sounds 
 like a stone being thrown at a piece of paper being held out. They pay attention to small things 
 so that even if there is nothing going on the game is full of footsteps, cars going along the streets, 
 talking, wind and etc.
  
  The reason I am giving sound such a low rating is because the radio is really, really bad. Most 
 of the channels are rap, which is not quite appetizing for a large ratio of people, and one is 
 country, which is actually worse than the rap. The rap isn't even the best of rap, on the contrary, 
 they took some of the worst rap I've heard in a while and put it in the game. With the exception 
 of about two radio channels, I usually just turn the radio off. But yes you can put your own mp3's 
 in the game which makes it a bit better.
  
  The graphics haven't improved a lot but they are definitely better than previous GTA's. In Vice 
 City every third person was clone of another person. Now it's more like every 15th. The models 
 are better than before as well. For some reason, the cars got less cool looking than in Vice City, 
 even though we've gone up the timeline.
  
  The story line is very well done in this and there are a lot of awesome characters like Cesar and 
 "The Truth". It manages to tie in characters from the previous two games to the storyline although 
 there is sort of a time lapse on two characters that were in Vice City and they are actually younger 
 than they were in Vice City for some reason. I know a lot of people say that the storylines in 
 GTA games are always the same but does it really matter? What else could they make it be? Settle 
 for second best in the crime families? Petty Theft Auto?
  
  This is where the series really shines. I can play this for hours and hours and not get tired of 
 it. There is so much to do and see that you won't get tired of it either. You can just drive around 
 the interesting parts of the map mowing down innocent/guilty bystanders or get a bunch of cops 
 on you and see how long you can last, or search the map looking for intentional or non-intentional 
 jumps.
  
  It's a great game, just don't buy it for the minors if you don't think they can handle the tons 
 of cursing and suggestible content, and don't go blaming Rockstar or games for "corrupting" your 
 kids.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adijan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 21, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Alright so maybe the opening missions arent all that fun but least you can do more things than 
 ever before huh!
  
  The best things to do in the game are usually the following (but make sure you make your own list 
 and have it be done in different order)
  
  - Steal car from citizen and flee the seen = Check
  
  - Blow up police cars with rocket launcher 
 = Check
  
  - Ride bike and run into people = Maybe later
  
  - Raise wanted level stars by using the weapons and see if you can cause alot of distruction. = 
 Major Check.
  
  Some areas allow you to have different styles of modes and playing areas and missions like Spray 
 Paint these signs over the city.
  Also this game offers a unique yet realistic universe where you can do the following.
  
  Eat 
 = Allows you to go to different shops and eat food but too much can cause fatness.
  
  Excercise = Allows you to work out and gain mussles.
  
  Hair Styles = Allows you to chose from 
 many different hair styles of san andreas.
  
  Those are just some examples of what to expect from the game.
  
  Buy it it is worth the money. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rebecca_Girl_1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 21, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  This game was way better than the rest of the series of GTA this game beats them all no doubt I 
 mean seriously having gang members in your car is not awesome? You cant say no to that my friend. 
 But this game made me stop playing Final Fantasy for awhile and start plaing some blood and gore 
 shooters you know because FF was all I played then I started to like GTA now I have evry GTA game 
 because of this one this game is the awesome sequel of GTA this one perfected it! I love this game. 
 I like CJ hes pretty cool and I really wish I could be a girl though lol anyway I love this game 
 seriosuly.
  
  Please Recomend MY Reviews!
  
  Rebecca_Girl_1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G_connexion
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 20, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  This really is a good game like all the GTA games but now with a little bit gangsta twist to it 
 lol ! But lets talk about the bad things cause this game have a lot of good things. 
  - The graphics are really bad like all the games you dont think about the graphics in the beging 
 but late on u will find it lame....
  - How to low ride... do we really need to know that to pass a mission...
  - Where are your homies 
 at when you are try to get from the cops? 
  - I really wanted more fredom in this game cause in the end it is all about the missions and that 
 is a bad thing when "u r a gangsta in tha hood" lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkzero
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 19, 2006 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to the world of Grand Theft Auto, where drugs, money, shootouts and crime run rampant. 
 San Andreas had some big shoes to fill to surpass its predecessors, but manages to do it, ghetto 
 style.
  
  Take yourself back to 1992, to the gang-ridden streets of Los Santos (the GTA equivalent to Los 
 Angeles) . You take the role of Carl CJ Johnson, who has just arrived at the airport from Liberty 
 City. Hes here to bury his moms, but just minutes after he lands, hes nabbed by a corrupt 
 bunch of cops led by Officer Tenpenny, and thrust into rival gang territory. CJ doesnt want to 
 be a part of the gang war, but hes just been forced to represent the hood once again. Grab your 
 homies and load your guns, because things are gonna get rough. Before his adventure is over, CJ 
 will have travelled all over the state of San Andreas, through the backcountry to San Fierro (the 
 GTA equivalent of San Francisco) and Las Venturas (the GTA equivalent of Las Vegas) .
  
  As CJ, youre going to have to take control of your gang, and move it back up to respectable status. 
 Youll team up with the three other Grove Street Gang leaders Smoke (a fat self-proclaimed philosopher) , 
 Sweet (your tough brother) , and Ryder (a joking bong-smoker) , and clean up the town, through acts 
 of gang violence. Before youre done, youll have beaten down some crack dealers, performed drive-bys 
 on rival gang members, stolen ammunition, tagged up some turf, and blown off the cops. The GTA: 
 SA missions just get more and more exciting as you start to take on the big boys. Markers on your 
 map will lead you in the direction as to where your next mission will begin, or where you have 
 to go once youve begun. On screen prompts will tell you anything you need to know to complete 
 your goal. This system makes it easy to complete all the tasks that are set before you, and are 
 easy yet comprehensive to read. Youll move on from gang-related warfare to heisting a casino, 
 infiltrating a military compound, and stealing property from the army. And when youre doing all 
 these crazy activities, youre going to have to look the part.
  
  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas character customisation system has a lot of options available to 
 you. First off, youll be able to choose CJs hairstyle at the local barbers, giving him anything 
 from cornrows to afros. Then youll be able to get yourself some new threads as various clothing 
 stores open up as you progress through the game. In the beginning youll only be able to shop at 
 Bincos, a budget clothes shop, but later on more respectable shops like Didier Sachs will have 
 suits available. In addition to this, youll be able to get some tattoos on various parts of your 
 body to increase your respect with your gang. After all these aesthetics are done, youll also 
 need to work out to get a fit body to show it all off.
  
  New to San Andreas is the fitness system, comprised of three statistics: Muscle, Fat and Stamina. 
 Muscle affects your strength, which means youll be able to lift greater weights and throw heavier 
 punches. Fat will weigh you down, and if it gets too high, you wont be able to jump as high or 
 climb high walls, youll also be slowed down in running. Stamina relates to how long youll be 
 able to sprint while running or biking, the higher this is, the longer you can go without tiring 
 out and slowing down. To get better muscle and stamina, youre going to have to work out at the 
 gym when it opens and get ripped. Youll only be allowed to perform a certain amount of exercises 
 before you tire out, but youll quickly buff up in a few days. CJ will also need to keep himself 
 well fed, and if he doesnt eat enough hell start to hunger, and his muscle stat will drop regularly. 
 Eat too much and youll start to get fat, and youll need to burn some of it off. Fat and muscle 
 also play an important part as to whether a potential girlfriend will find you attractive or not. 
 Some girls will like you fat, others will like you fit. Another aspect of fitness will be CJs 
 lung capacity. This will determine how long he can stay underwater while hes swimming, which youll 
 find is necessary in certain missions and to collect certain items.
  
  How you look will affect your Sex Appeal, and your Respect. Sex appeal determines whether or not 
 youre more likely to get a date with a potential girlfriend or not. This can be determined by 
 your appearance, the cars you drive and how often you date. Gaining respect will allow more gang 
 members to follow you on the streets and help you out during your missions. 
  
  Finally, CJ will have certain proficiencies with different weapons and vehicles. With each weapon 
 CJ will start out with Poor skill. However, use them for a little while, and hell gain Gangster 
 rank with that weapon, which increases the range and accuracy with which he can use it. Use that 
 specific weapon a lot, and hell achieve Hitman level. With certain one handed weapons, hell now 
 be able to dual wield them, and his accuracy will once again improve dramatically. Vehicles come 
 other five categories: cars, bicycles, motorcycles, aircraft, and boats. As he drives more of the 
 vehicles in each category hell gain more skill. This will improve his turning and handling in 
 all of them. For bikes and motorcycles, hell also be able to perform wheelies and stoppies more 
 easily, and will have more balance, making it less easy for him to fall off them during collisions.
 
  
  When CJ isnt cleaning up the hood, hell have a variety of side missions to get stuck into. The 
 vigilante missions are back when you hop into a police vehicle (whether it be motorbike, car or 
 tank) , and youll be able to hunt down wanted criminals while escaping from the law yourself. Fire 
 truck side missions will have you racing around town putting out flaming vehicles and the people 
 inside them. Ambulance side missions will have you carting around injured persons to the nearest 
 hospital. Burglary, is a new addition, where youll be entering peoples homes at night and stealing 
 items, and driving off in your boxer van. Finally, racing side missions include a variety of different 
 kinds of races, whether its on the street, or in an arena looking for checkpoints.
  
  Clearly what makes Grand Theft Auto so appealing (and San Andreas in particular) is the sheer variety 
 of things that you can do. Besides the missions and side missions, you can just hop into cars and 
 go for a drive, perform stunt jumps, start a rampage, look for collectibles, or go dating. Even 
 without a purpose, San Andreas puts up a fun time.
  
  It certainly doesnt hurt that the game looks great. Each of the cities in San Andreas artistically 
 looks like their real life counterparts, whether its the streets of Los Santos, the skyscrapers 
 of San Fierro, or the desert casinos of Las Venturas, its all there, and it looks fantastic. The 
 back country also looks very fitting, as you pass woodland on the dirt roads, or travel through 
 the mundane deserts. The car and character models also have a fair bit of distinction. Unfortunately, 
 the graphics dont seem to be much of an improvement over Vice City. Everything still looks very 
 polygonal and simple, and the textures are fairly bland. This gives it a very reminiscent feel 
 of the past GTA games but it would have been nice to see more improvement. It still looks cohesive 
 nonetheless.
  
  San Andreas sounds great, from the whirr of the engine, to the gunfire and explosions, it all sounds 
 gratifying, and make you feel like youre there. The voice acting is really where this game shines. 
 Great performances have been made all round with all the lead characters. Notable voice actors 
 include Samuel L. Jackson as Officer Tenpenny, Chris Penn as Officer Pulaski, David Cross as Zero, 
 Ice-T as Madd Dogg, and James Wood as Mike Toreno. A lot of funny quotes to be found in the dialogue 
 throughout the game, which really enhances the GTA humour.
  
  The music is again fairly good, although more varied this time around. There are stations dedicated 
 to rap, R&B, alternative rock, classic rock, country, talkback etc. There are a lot of great songs 
 coming from the era of 1992. While some of these fit, youll find yourself listening less to the 
 country channel, which only really fits in the back country. The DJs on each radio station do a 
 convincing job, giving some humorous performances. The commercials and news stories that youll 
 here occasionally are very funny, and are sometimes linked to event in the game. Thankfully, there 
 is a custom track station which you can switch too if you prefer the taste of your own music collection.
 
  
  Grand Theft Auto is renowned for its unbelievable variety of things to do, its incredible storyline, 
 and insane humour. And its able to deliver it to you in one nice looking, great sounding, and 
 appealing package. San Andreas is the biggest yet, and is an improvement in every single way above 
 the previous instalments. If you want to relive the gangster lifestyle of the early 90s, you have 
 to get this game. Or are you a busta? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 19, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  Bursting out onto shelves on June 7th of 2005, developers Rockstar Games gave fans almost everything 
 they could have asked for with their newest installment titled Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas. Along 
 with all the things that made the two previous games great, the developers added a whole lot more 
 making this easily the biggest and most innovative Grand Theft Auto (GTA) to date. 
  
  Following along the lines of the past GTA games, San Andreas comes along with a decent enough story 
 to keep the player interested from the beginning cinematics till the end cut-scene. Following along 
 throughout the life of a thug returning to the streets after a long absence as he tries to help 
 his family restore order to what was once an organized gang turf area, Carl Johnson, also known 
 as C. J., brings life into a new and unique setting different from both Liberty and Vice City. Giving 
 the player a set of stats to work with to build up his characters ranks in different areas such 
 as muscle, respect, sex appeal, among others, Rockstar Games tries to give the player a kind of 
 role-playing experience making the player feed C. J. and also either exercise him or watch him get 
 more fat as time progresses. Its up to you, the player, on how you want C. J. to turn out. Youre 
 able to change his clothes, change his appearance with the different styles of haircuts and facial 
 hair in the different barber shops. There are also different gyms across the games miles of area 
 where youre able to give C. J. a good workout bulking up his appearance thus giving him not only 
 more sex appeal, but also more stamina for when he needs to outrun the cops on foot when theres 
 no vehicles to steal around.
  
  All these elements really provide a lot of gameplay to the player letting them make their own decisions 
 on their overall appearance because their appearance wont overly affect their gameplay during 
 missions and it never really taxes the player for time when needing to attend to these different 
 features. And it also provides a lot of entertainment for the player seeing C. J. either grow fat 
 and loose his stamina or bulk up and be able to sprint and swim for long periods of time. The game 
 also tracks your different stats throughout the campaign including your use of the many different 
 weapons and vehicles throughout the game. The more you use them, you better you are at using them. 
 As simple as that. The new inclusion of girlfriends adds a lot of added gameplay to the overall 
 storyline, but only if you want it to. Thats the nice thing about San Andreas, its as interactive 
 as you want it to be. You could go through the game having multiple girlfriends, being ripped with 
 bulking muscles, and be extremely well at using the different guns and vehicles, but only if you 
 want to. Its about how much you want to put into the game. And even though at first, it just seems 
 like Rockstar Games wanted to create a game where they could swear as much as they possibly could, 
 the language gives the characters a little more depth, and it certainly doesnt take away from 
 the superb voicing of the different characters. The developers got together some pretty big names 
 to recreate some of the main voices in the game and the combination they used was a sure winner. 
 Youll hear different voices such as Samuel L. Jackson, David Cross, Peter Fonda, Charlie Murphy, 
 James Wood, among many others who truly fill the cast of voice actors extremely well. And the soundtrack 
 thats included is pretty large and full of great music from Willie Nelson to N. W. A., but theres 
 also the inclusion of the great D. Js that spread their wisdom and knowledge between and sometimes 
 during the many tracks found on the different radio stations. Youre also able to put your own 
 music in the game so when youre rolling around in your low rider, you can be bumping away to your 
 favorite tunes. The voice acting and the great soundtrack really add a lot of feeling to the gameplay.
 
  
  One noticeable con about San Andreas is the bug found after it begins to rain. For some reason, 
 many players, including myself have found that when it starts raining, the sound within the game, 
 whether its the radio stations, the different voices, or the sound affects during gameplay, tend 
 to disappear. This is easily fixed by saving the game and restarting the game over. Others have 
 found that if you go to your sound in your diagnostics by running dxdiag under run, if you set 
 your sound to basic, the sound wont have his trouble. And at least with my game, this has been 
 true.
  
  Throughout your travels across the large landscape, youll be able to use regular bikes, motorcycles, 
 cars, trucks, semis, recreational vehicles, boats, helicopters, and many other modes of transportation 
 to get from point A to point B. The story of San Andreas may be linear, but the gameplay really 
 isnt because youre able to play the game how you want. If you want to go on a killing spree tearing 
 up the town, the only thing youll have to worry about is Hillary Clinton finding out about it. 
 Otherwise, its up to you on how to solve the different missions and side quests throughout the 
 games lengthy campaign. 
  
  Graphics in San Andreas are a step up from both Liberty and Vice City and one huge improvement 
 is the fact that the entire world is seamless. Youll never experience a loading time when traveling 
 to different areas of the map whether youre out in the county side on a four-wheeler or raising 
 hell in the middle of Los Santos. This gives the gameplay more depth in the fact that you can change 
 your draw distance to where youre able to see miles across the screen, and when flying either 
 a plane or helicopter, you wont be bothered by a loading screen if youre teetering on the edge 
 of a zone like you would with the two previous installments. The setting of the game is sometime 
 in the 1990s spread across an expansive map miles and miles across. The newly added country side 
 gives a different flavor to the world of Grand Theft Auto in the way that youll find yourself 
 roaming the hill sides across high mountains and deep ravines. The county side takes up at least 
 a third of the map and really extends the missions that have you travel to and from when dealing 
 with your different troubles. Along the huge expansive map, there are some cons. Youll notice 
 some clipping in the environments and characters that youll come across.
  
  Like the two previous installments, San Andreas does not have a multiplayer component to it, but 
 like the previous two, the fan community is really trying to create one so that different players 
 from all over can interact with each others world theyre in. 
  
  Overall, if you enjoyed GTA III and Vice City, youll certainly enjoy San Andreas and if this is 
 the first Grand Theft Auto game that youve played, youre easily starting out with the best. With 
 the great soundtrack, seamless world, multitudes of missions, and the fluid voice acting, San Andreas 
 is a sure fire hit for Rockstar Games. Now, if we can just keep Congress out of the video game 
 industry.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bullit
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  A revolutionary game!!!!!!
  What can i say about this game?? "MASTERPIECE", Best in series, best game of 2004, the KING of 
 games!
  
  You can do whatever you like in the game and you can drive so many different vehicles, that even 
 if you playing for a month you won't have drive them all!
  
  The gameplay is excellent! The driving is realistic and also the moves of the character!
  
 
  The sounds and the music are also perfect! The voice-acting is flawless! The cut scenes are very 
 nice and inside the story "if you know what i mean.."
  
  The missions are enough to keep you busy for weeks and if you finish the story line, you will not 
 bored! You will keep playing and investigating the world in GTA san andreas! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brewer74
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2006 4:48 am PT
Review:  I thought that GTA San ANdreas was just so great. It has everything from guest star voices to great 
 songs to kill, drive and maim to. the casinogames alone could be sold seperatly to consumers they 
 are that much fun. the level of setail gone into the making of this game is quite extrodanary. 
 I thought the way it all glued together semmlesly, was one of the games most indeering concepts. 
 The soundtrack, the way the charachters and the city breathed with life, just made you want to 
 be even more immersed in this unreal world. CJ, the main charachter, is portrayed in just the right 
 manner, and the action is always wellpaced with some great storylines in-between. The graphics are 
 top calss stuff whenyou think aboutwhat the game involves. the huge cities and all those independedant 
 people going about their buisness. Oh, and also it RULES ON PC!!! IT was meant for OC's and started 
 on pc's! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: manjit_kool_007
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 16, 2006 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Its one of the most happening games on the pc where one can do a lot of things like eat, date, 
 drive cars, shoot people, be chased by cops etc etc,
  with amazing graphics and gameplay the game stands as the best in the GTA series. we have a variety 
 of skills to develop like bike skills, driving skill etc. 
  Respect is somthing we have to keep in mind as the more respect the more gang members we can manage.
 
  Ballads try to always get on our nerves but we always emerge out as a supreme winner....
  Finally saying the gameplay is upto its maximum mark along with the sound and action....
  hope 
 you enjoy the game as much as i did.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeamonAMD
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 15, 2006 9:32 pm PT
Review:  You have the freedom to do what ever you want when ever you want. I love the game. I cant stop 
 playing every night. The thing I like about the game is that my OG (original gangster) gets better 
 and better as I play the game. Its almost like an RPG in some way. I think its a great game. 
 I didnt play VICE CITY but I think I should give it a go. I like listening to K-ROSE radio station. 
 The radio stations in the game are so funny, some times I cry of all the laughter. The people on 
 the streets of San Andreas are extremely funny, when you walk past them and they say something 
 like 
  Inbreeding makes you dump I almost fell of my chair. The game is done really good. Try the game 
 if you don't like it that's ok, just don't shoot the game down before you even try it.
  
  Hope you enjoy the game as much as I do.
  .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ketsapoulse
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  You can do what ever you want from driving all kind of cars and planes , eat , go to gym , make 
 girl friend , have sex , diving , swimming , killing , shooting and chased by cops .
  Grand theft auto san andreas is a cool game with a lot of feature that I'm gone talk about it :
 
  Graphics : superb graphics with a lot of effects .
  Physics : great physic of car and people movement .
  Sounds : good sound gives you great feel 
 of the city live and when you are driving you car you can hear radio with different channels .
 
  Game play : great storyline but the game only one mod .
  The bad things : no bad things .
  My Last Word Is : its very large game with great story . 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NiclasKennel
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 12, 2006 4:32 am PT
Review:  Gta... what does that mean to you... probably some people would say violence, gang/mafia simulation 
 or even old-lady killing, but what gta says to me is FREEDOM, yes capital, total freedom and the 
 new gta SA reinvents that.
  Even though the graphics aren't brilliant it doesnt really affect the real gameplay, because the 
 whole global feeling really makes you believe and really feel the "gang" type life. 
  Gta SA includes 3 whole cities and loads of terrain between them, and loads of extra missions to 
 do between the story points.
  This game is one of the all best game I've ever played, and I recommend it to everyone who likes 
 games.
  The negative points are the sometimes screwed up difficulty and the character modeling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vandersleid
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 11, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  It has a great storyline that makes you want to bust a cap into that punk ass **** Love the overall 
 freedom of the game, allowing you to do what you want when you want. Needs to be more choice of 
 the cars and guns, more possibilities equals more fun. The ballistics and cause and effect could 
 be better, but im very pleased with the game in its entirety. Great game recomend it to anyone 
 pissed off and gaming on the awesome PS2 of PC system, buy it today and spend weeks capping those 
 punk ass bitches. I recomend getting a couple buddies, starting multiplayer, finding an el camino 
 and going on a cop hunting expedition, just stay away from those nasty gas stations. Two thumbs 
 up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DARTHvayda
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2006 7:10 pm PT
Review:  This is a wonderful, mod able game. I have separated my review into 4 categories to make it quick 
 and easy to read.
  
  Graphics: they are very good, the textures could be better though. Whats up with the water? its 
 pixel shader1 or something, I think they should have bumped it up to pixelshader3 for pc. The wheels 
 are not perfect circles, but not a big deal, you can't tell unless you stop and look up close. 
 
  
  Sound: the cars could sound better, they are kind of dull sounding. The guns sound ok though. The 
 soundtrack is good, a lot of songs and stations.
  
  Game play: very intense game play, there is always something to do, even when you have completed 
 the missions
  
  Modding: most mod able game series there is, mods for everything. You can change the handling in 
 the registry files fairly easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacobderosenoir
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 9, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I've played GTA III and was blown out by the liberty (city) you had. I didn't played the other 
 GTA in between and quite frankly I didn't want to play San Andreas cause I tought it was the old 
 same old concept only in a bigger city. So you can imagine how blown away I was when I began to 
 play San Andreas. 
  
  The shear number of things you can do is absolutly and completly mad. I think this game is better 
 than The Sim 2 in simulating the life of someone. I really get a sense that I'm a real person with 
 his car (stolen during the third mission) modified to my liking with mags and body modification. 
 A person with his own hair and clothes style, with his three residences and his assets, his boat, 
 his bike, his chopper, his friend and his girlfriend who was pretty difficult to date because of 
 her hate of speed when driving around. 
  
  I made most of my fortune at the casino playing Blackjack and Roulette. For sure, the territories 
 I held back in Los Santos provided with some pocket money and my garage, my car dealer and my RC 
 shop provided me with enough money to pay for my expensive taste in terms of car modifications 
 but I had to complete my budget by doing some deliveries in the country side and taking on some 
 challenges such as races, stunt and many more. 
  
  You could have a great game just by wondering around and take on all the little side missions/challenges 
 but the missions structures and the story is a very good and very engaging. 
  
  Graphic wise, everything is in there and while it's not the best around, it's sufficent. Sound 
 are greats and should I mention the overwealming numbers of Radio stations providing known music 
 performer. 
  
  BUT!!!!! And I hope this "but" will be corrected in a patch soon cause I'm getting very frustrated. 
 I encountered about 5 differents crash situation that requires me to manually delete the "set" 
 file or even scrap a save game. The joypad support is lame as it doesn't support the right analog 
 stick. Since you need to aim with the analog stick, I sometimes find myself pausing the game in 
 a midle of fight and switch it to Mouse-keyboard until everyone is down and then come back to joypad 
 to drive my car. The control scheme is so bad, I had to rewrite it. 
  
  The website of Rockstar does not have a forum and there is no news about a patch coming. Only trought 
 SanAndreas. com did I saw that I was not the only one with problems. Apparently the PC version is 
 plague with bugs which I find odd considering it took two months to get it out after the console. 
 
  
  Once a Patch will be issued, this game will surely become one of my classic. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jabbamonkey
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 9, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  This game excels in so many aspects, that it is difficult to know where to start. Let's begin with 
 the earlier games and their popularity. The original game was a fun action game, which was a little 
 controversial for its content ... but, as everything was shot overhead, and there were no close-up 
 action, this controversy died down. Once GTA switched to 3d and 3rd person perspective, the game 
 became alot more interesting, and started causing trouble with weak stomached politicians and controlling 
 mother's groups. The game also became ALOT more fun.
  
  San Andreas is similar to GTA: Vice City in many respects (3rd person, controls are the same) , 
 but many of the annoying aspects of the old game were addressed, and many new features were added 
 in. For example, in San Andreas, you can swim (you no longer die if you fall, or drive into, the 
 water) . And there are so many mini-games and side quests in San Andreas, that the two games can 
 hardly be compared. 
  
  San Andreas is set in 3 separate cities (although only the first is accessible in the beginning 
 of the game) and the areas in-between. The explorable area is ENORMOUS. You can spend hours just 
 trekking from one end of the game to the other. You can choose to follow the story-line, play side 
 missions, or just cruise around town and reek havoc!!!!
  
  In addition to the normal shoot'em up missions, there are some great site missions. These include 
 burglary, car/bike/boat/running racing, schools (driving, flying, etc.) , vigilante missions (chase 
 and kill the bad guy) , ambulance missions (take people to the hospital) , fire fighter missions 
 (douse the flames before time runs out) , pimp missions and more! In addition, there are several 
 mini-games, such as casino games, a variety of small arcade games, gym exercises, dancing and a 
 version of DANCE-DANCE REVOLUTION. Also, you have a handful of women to date and please (by taking 
 out on dates) . The options seem limitless, and add SO MUCH to the re-playability factor.
  
  The main story-line and missions are fantastic, and you will not complain about the length either 
 (especially since you can do the missions at your own pace) . The characters are rich and well played.
 
  
  One very nice touch in the game are the details ... you now have a wide wardrobe (and stores to 
 shop at) , along with barbershops to change your hair doo, and tattoo parlors to get some marks. 
 In addition to the WIDE VARIETY of cars, you can also soup-up your rides in certain car shops, 
 and paint the cars however you please.
  
  This game is one of the best I've played. It is so rich and diverse, that it should NOT be missed!!!!! 
 Ignore any parent protests and politician's banter, this game is full of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feyre
Rating: 5.2
Date: Mar 18, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  Immensly popular game, but I feel to see why.
  
  Gameplay: Annoying gameplay, aiming is tedious, slowpaced. Melee is slightly better but isn't utilised 
 much. Racing is a bit better, there are many vehicles and each acts differently and have their 
 own weaknesses and strenths.
  Graphics: Outdated. Years outdated. Compare it to other games and the difference is easily noticable. 
 Even at maximum graphics and from a plain or high mountain the game can't even lower framerates 
 on a standart machine.
  Sound: Not many sounds, but solid voice acting.
  Value: A lot of different missions, too bad so many of them are a pain.
  Tilt: I didn't like 
 it at all, the game is boring at best
  
  You'll probably have noticed that quite some people don't agree with this review, this is obvious 
 as I'm dissing a game they love. Apparently you can't have an opinion anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neosupreeth
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 6, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Again, i am too late to be writing a review but then its better to write one.
  
  I started playing only from the GTA 3 game, and I must say I am very impressed. The game is excellent 
 in terms of "handling" the character, but the abusive foul language could have been avoided which 
 really put me away from the game for the first few days. The story line is impressive and the gameplay 
 is awesome. the graphics too good. It really gets into a real life character with gym, food etc.. 
 not to forget dating.. ( I was really bad in keeping up with the dates) .... 
  
  Now I just want to see what the next GTA has to offer me... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lambert_1993
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 4, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty cool. The Gameplay is very good, you can do almost anything like in real life. 
 The Sound is not bad I guess, but the gun effects need improvements. The Graphics are not that 
 bad, but still not perfect. And the Replay Value is very high, you can play this game over and 
 over again even if you completed this game 30 times in a row. And one of the best part is that 
 you can swim in this game. You can even see some sea creatures when you dive/swim. This is a must 
 have game, even if you are not a GTA fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yazon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 4, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  This game is the respectable sequel to the previous games (I am calling it siquel cause there are 
 many of them) .
  Now we are rolling the west coast!! LA is on our way, the name of the main city is Los Santos (Los 
 Angeles) the second one is San Fierro (San Francisco) and the Las Venturas (Las Vegas) .
  The game is all about the same: you are making your way from very bottom to the boss who is running 
 the whole city of LS!!!!
  It has the same graphics, maybe a little better, then the Vice or Liberty were. but the music and 
 the stroryline are much more interesting!!!
  The territory is so big that it will take long time to travell from LS to LV for example. But the 
 music with all that variety of stations and music styles won; t let you fell self bored.
  The thing that you need to know about this game is that you are ought to play it! Never try to 
 miss such a game!
  Tohir"Yazon"Tillyaev 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xcore69
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  The game had excellent story-telling and plot. The game play was great, and the soundtrack didn't 
 get boring. It's lovely cruising on the motorway and travelling to different areas in this massive 
 game. This is the biggest game I have ever come across so far and it was very impressive. It's 
 also nice suffering no load times when entering or exiting a building. Even though my pc was way 
 above the requirements for this game, it still suffered from lagging on the highest settings, and 
 that was extremely annoying. The game was hard enough to complete, even though not being extremely 
 challenging. There is definitely enough to keep you going for a long time more after you complete 
 this game. There are also a lot of mods being developed for this as there were for the previous 
 game, so keep on the lookout for new ones, since this has a great modder support!!! Dose have some 
 small improvements that could be done to the game play too... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TE666Utero
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 27, 2006 4:29 pm PT
Review:  I waited this game for a very long time.
  When i got it my friends were very happy , so they come and played it in my house. But after a little 
 while , i got bored of this game.
  See these kind of games are like you play them for some time , throw them away , and then play 
 them again .
  Overall i rated this game as one of the best in 2005!
  Best of luck for you playing this game , and have fun , the game was worth waiting!
  Dieing to 
 see the next realse of Grand Theft Auto!
  GL&HF. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speed_devil
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2006 7:09 am PT
Review:  What can i say about this game??"MASTERPIECE"
  
  You can do whatever you like in the game and you can drive so many different vehicles, that even 
 if you playing for a month you won't have drive them all!
  
  The gameplay is excellent! The driving is realistic and also the moves of the character!
  
  
 The sounds and the music are also perfect! The voice-acting is flawless! The cut scenes are very 
 nice and inside the story "if you know what i mean.."
  
  The missions are enough to keep you busy for weeks and if you finish the story line, you will not 
 bored! You will keep playing and investigating the world in GTA san andreas!
  
  This game has a lot of things to offer and is very rare! So don't waste your time and go buy it!!!!!!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -challenger-
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  Based on the earlier Grand Theft Auto game series, GTA San Andreas offers yet another fantastic 
 gaming experience unique to the GTA franchise. With even more thoroughly expanded and new game 
 features, the game is truly an unforgettable experience that guarantees hours of fun and enjoyment. 
 Original GTA games were focused on the idea of carjacking, GTA San Andreas has substantially improved 
 it and incorporated it well with many other facets of the game that emphasizes real urban life. 
 Rather than restricting the player on one city, GTA San Andreas has created an entire state with 
 three thriving metropolis modeled after Los Angeles, San Francisco and Las Vegas, as well has a 
 handful of small towns in the country side. The story is very well-rounded featuring famous voice 
 talents. However the games soundtracks are somewhat disappointing and the radio stations arent 
 as memorable as the previous installments. A new feature that allows the player to recruit fellow 
 gang members also proved to be quite problematic due to the primitive nature of the AIs: occasionally 
 witnessing AIs constantly running into a wall or just deserting a gang war suddenly. Operating 
 some air units, especially RC airplanes, for missions is also difficult and frustrating for many 
 players. Overall however, GTA San Andreas will yet be remembered as another extraordinary game 
 that is even bold and daring at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duncanglamis
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 22, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  The map is very big, so you can travel so much, too much vehicles and missions external to the 
 story, so you can play above 100 hours in different missions and more,
  High recommended game for those who like this style.
  And dont worry about the violence, its 
 just a game.
  all the features that the Rockstar team has developed, are in the game, but tis censored, so you 
 can use one file called cscensor, and unlock it and play it like rockstar make it.
  Its a game to dont get boried, if you want to play and play various different games in one buy 
 it its the indicated for you . It have a lot of minigames inside the game so it makes more fun.
 
  The graphics are great, the heat at mid-day, its cool, the effects with the nitro and the speed, 
 its like need for speed. Itsd means very good.
  to play its easy to learn, more difficult its to pilot planes and choppers if you dont have 
 a gamepad, but, nothing imposible 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DjRyu420
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 20, 2006 10:47 pm PT
Review:  I loved it, the only point ( for me) was to just see the awesome cutscenes.
  
  My favourite part is about the ganglife that happens around the Grand Theft Auto world, this game 
 had a much larger focus, rather than some unknown - washed up person you play in previous games.
 
  Starting off as an Grove Street gang member made me happy, representing your home and what you 
 believe in.
  I enjoyed going off to meet that annyoing thing called Catalina, those missions where my favourite 
 ones (not because of that scene) but for once you got to look around the country life, instead 
 of always seeing the city all the time.
  
  Well, i should wrap it up (can't be bothered writing a page full of stuff you want to skip) , this 
 is the best GTA ever, if you want a long lasting game that never gets boring this is the game for 
 you!
  
  I give it a 9.1/10 and my own Hooray! - Taken from Burntfaceman 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjj13
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game you will ever play. It is so much fun. Just try not to let your young kids 
 play this game. There is so much to do! I did not even finish this game yet and I got it when It 
 first came out. The odd jobs get boring after awhile, but the story missions are so much fun. I 
 could play it again and again. The plot is great. I love it. There is one mission named something 
 with supplies and it is so hard. The freeplay will keep you busy if the odd jobs and story missions 
 do not keep you handled. If you have some spare money and do not have this game, please get it 
 and get it soon before it gets banned in a country near you. lol. If you liked this review please 
 Suggest this review. Thanks for reading!
  
  -John JJ 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DjINDIA
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 7, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  I had mixed feelings of the Grand Theft Auto series. At first glance, the game seemed just for 
 people who wanted to cause havoc around the cities, but there was more to it when i decided to 
 fetch San Andreas for about $20. 00. This game was excellent and it was really keeping me busy. 
 Seeing how this game was pretty much flawless, i went out and played the PS2 version at my friends 
 house. Of course, it wa not as good , running sloppier, and worse graphics. Anyways, if you have 
 a PS2 and a good PC, get the PC version, because it is faster, smoother and just more fun.
  
  The gameplay is wonderful. It has a unique balance of fighting, stealth mechanics (very basic) , 
 shooting and of course, something that will take up most of the games time, driving. This version 
 has a bit of troubles, as you could not auto target the enemies. This could be a problem, for some, 
 who are not good at targeting very well, but for some who are skillful at shooters, can just point 
 up at the head and shoot, of course, not everyone is like this. In order to auto target, you must 
 purchase a gamepad and program it to do so, which can be purchased for $20. 00 but you shouldn't 
 have to buy accessories right? In addition, your driving controls seem uncontrollable and hard, 
 as you will control the car using the walking movements. This can be difficult at times as you 
 will have to move the mouse along with it to change the camera, on a PS2, simply tap the right 
 analog stick. The driving can get out of hand if you have never played the driving on a PC, so 
 expect a lot of crashing while turning. Fighting is basic, while you just click to punch. While 
 crouching and pointing a gun, you can roll dodge and that was a useful tool that I and many others 
 like. There are numerous places to explore and people to kill. You can change your hair to how 
 you may like it and you can enter stores to either buy food, play mini games such as pool or a 
 simple dancing game, and you can change your clothes to your or your girlfriends like. Did I say 
 girlfriend? Yeah, I did, in this game in fact you can go out with a girl, its really nothing special 
 but its just something you can have in the game. You can go out with her with her liking of food 
 and such and she may like you depending on how you act. You will need to train in some cases to 
 be more buff, which can be done in a gym. All you do is press two buttons simultaneously and you 
 will eventually get your muscle or stamina up, the higher weight or level you choose, the faster 
 you will get your desire, however, the faster you will have to press the buttons, make sure you 
 don't break your SPACE button . . . You can also raise your lung capacity which allows you to stay 
 underwater longer, this will allow you to do certain missions and such. You raise it by swimming 
 underwater and over water. I find that these additions are fine, but really not needed and boring 
 and of course easy. Although, it can be fun to show off CJ's muscles around and kill people faster. 
 There are gun level ups and with higher levels you can shoot and reload faster and dual wield. 
 There's a ton of other content like stealing goods from houses but I wont give away too much. . 
 . 
  
  The graphics of course, are a lot better than the PS2 and XBOX version, but of course it really 
 isn't better than most games, but with all that exploring, the game would be way over priced and 
 the game would have to span over 10 gigs of memory with its already whopping 3. 9 gigs. Although, 
 this games graphics isn't all that bad, although, there is an annoying blocky hand models, which 
 really, you can get used to, and no it isn't a fault in your system. The character models can appear 
 a bit blurry but thats alright. Introducing in the PC version is the draw distance and Anti Aliasing. 
 WIth the draw distance all the way up, you can see virtually everything ahead without the blue 
 sky in the way. In addition, with anti aliasing on, you can say goodbye to all the annoying jagged 
 lines. Everything is nicely done, i happen to like the graphics style with ridged polygons, its 
 like a new type of graphics, however, i wouldn't mind the graphics be a bit Half- Life- 2'y but 
 its alright, everythings good. The game goes from day to night and the changes of rain to sunshine 
 is wonderfully done. While driving in the rain, you may experience sliding and such which makes 
 the effect of rain done well.
  
  The sound is alright, better than the graphics. Although, there can be a sound problem, when the 
 effects and the radio station will work fine, however, the dialogue will not be active. Although 
 i've heard of this, this happened to me only once and simply restarting my system fixed the problem. 
 Although it is a big problem, it can be done away with, atleast for me anyways. The soundtrack 
 was not as good as the last one, Vice City. Vice City was packed with different sounds of Hop Hop, 
 Rock, and all your other genres of music. However, this game focused heavily of Hip Hop and Country 
 avoiding the other audiences, even if their genre was there, it wasn't a very good song or the 
 slightest bit of their genre, nevertheless, you can still, on the PC version, put your own music 
 downloaded from your computer, onto your used track player, while commercials and and a DJ play 
 between your song. The shooting is alright. . . and the people around you saying things can be 
 a bit amusing. My personal favorite was "That busta put dust in mah weed". Car engine and cars 
 exploding along with people dying is nicely done. Although, CJ will say some things and it does 
 rather sound like it is coming from another person, not from the person you are controlling (CJ) 
 Overall, including the fact that you can add your own music on your own radio staion, this games 
 sound deserves a 10. Every aspect is pretty much better than the ps2, and here is just another. 
 Aside from the random audio bug, its the best sound in a while.
  
  This game is definitely worth every penny. It will keep you playing for hours and hours and you 
 will never forget it. Even after you are done with the story mission, which can span from 30 - 
 50 hours, you'll still be playing for another hundred hours exploring, killing people, trying mods, 
 going on dates, and playing mini games. 
  
  Overall, this game is not perfect, but it sure is pretty damn close. You can do so many things, 
 right at the edge of your seat. This is an experience that will last you a long time . . . at least 
 until the next game of the trilogy comes out of course, and from playing this. . . I can tell that 
 RockStar is thinking of something huge for next gen consoles. Well, if you don't work for RockStar, 
 start playing dammit, and if you do, get to work! Have fun cheating and shooting and stealing because 
 you'll be doing it all, plenty and you won't even get caught (well sometimes) or feel guilty about 
 it. Get moving!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zedron33
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 19, 2006 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Like I just said, if you have NEVER played this game before, then there must be something wrong 
 with you... This is, by far, the best GTA game in the series. All the added extras, like the bikes, 
 cars, trucks, even new bikes. You also have a way better voice acting, and a well written storyline. 
 Robbing houses, flying planes, changing your looks, getting in shape, haircuts, and even swimming 
 are added to the game. Not to mention, the map is over twice as big as Vice City, with three cities 
 and a desert or countryside to split them in between. The graphics can be a bit fuzzy at times, 
 but everyhting else is great! You can even have a girlfriend and have a muliplayer mode. You even 
 have little arcade games to play, and WAY MORE places to save your game. Casios, gaining/losing 
 territories, running a gang, and guess what, there are even more things like playing basketball! 
 This is, the best game in the series, and possibly the best game ever for the PS2. I really reccomend 
 you play this game and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magnaboy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 19, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  GTA: SA is the sort of game that takes forever to complete and even when you do you can still spend 
 hours in the game finding things to do. The fact that the game world is open is probably the biggest 
 drawcarrd to this game - once you have all the cities unlocked you can do whatever you like whenever 
 you like.
  
  How can you get bored of causing carnage on a massive scale?
  
  If you dont have this game already go and buy it.
  
  The only thing I would like to see is 
 some form of multiplayer GTA (officially) in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eric121
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 19, 2006 3:01 am PT
Review:  Rockstar's GTA: San Andreas is the best till today in it's series.
  
  This game's game-play is good. 
  
  It's Graphics is descent.
  
  The Voice is done well... I 
 mean the black people's English is superbly done. Especially in HOT-COFFEE MOD.. Just Buy & Try.. You 
 will like it.
  
  Totally this game has a good value in market as you can look at the ratings which i have given.
 
  
  It's a Fun Filled Mature Game... For all the homies..
  
  There are mature words which has been used frequently like **** hence Parental Advisory is Important 
 , ESPECIALLY IN HOT COFFEE MOD-DO NOT MEET YOUR GIRLFRIEND IN FRONT OF YOUR MOMMA CUS THERE IS 
 GONNA BE A LOTS OF ACTION IN YOUR ASS..........
  
  Finally i conclude this by saying ... THIS GAME ROCKS....
  
  SO Don't wait for anything , Just 
 buy & Play If You Like 'COOL LIFE'...
  
  This is my 1st Review, so If any mistakes Please give your suggestions.
  
  SEE YA later Until 
 I write for more games..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZiMMa007
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 18, 2006 5:23 am PT
Review:  I love this game ... While playing this game I lost my job, my wife, my house ... this game rocks! 
 Don't cheat on this one, you can always put cheats in later, but you can never get this game back 
 ... treasure it, love it, live it. I can't believe how comprehensive this game is, the minute you 
 think you are done ... check again cuz you isnt. Also its a great date game, bring over your new 
 girl friend and sit down, crack open a few beers and enjoy! This truly is a multi purpose game, 
 I can not say enough about this work of art. If you haven't tried this game yet GET IT! Truly a 
 must. A MUST!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saeed_lp_69
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 16, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  After recent statments from the ESRB stating they wish to see modding for all games stopped, some 
 of us decided it would be a good idea to defend ourselves from the whole "modders are evil" myth 
 they are perpetuating. Namely that we somehow made something so shocking and offensive with Hot 
 Coffee that it undermines their whole rating system, even though they've rated at least a half 
 dozen titles as M which are just as (if not more) explicit than anything in San Andreas; modded 
 or otherwise.
  
  Modders attempt to merge GTA3 and GTAVC with San Andreas
  The inevitable modding project for combining games from the GTA3 series into one using the San 
 Andreas engine has taken off. A group producing a mod known as GTA: LVS aim upon merging Liberty 
 City from GTA3, Vice City and San Andreas all into one, and then allowing the player to travel 
 between each of these. Whilst the mod is still very much a work in progress, the first screenshots 
 are present from Liberty City and given sufficient time the project could have the same success 
 as GTA: Liberty City's port of GTA3 into the Vice City engine. Some members from the GTA: Liberty 
 City team also expressed an interest in attempting to achieve a port to the San Andreas engine.
 
  
  Vice City Multiplayer - First Release
  The Vice City Multiplayer project started by the San Andreas Multiplayer team as a prerequisite 
 to their SA-MP development has proven to be far more productive than their first estimates were. 
 VC-MP has been described as far from final, but the team believe that this release is an enjoyable 
 release to play and should provide some commonly demanded features for the community that other 
 mods do not have.
  
   Vehicles and Players are accurately synchronised with few differences from one client to another.
 
   Server administrators have the ability to customize parked cars and player spawns with an INI 
 file, other options such as enabling/disabling friendly fire and the ability to limit the playing 
 area make gameplay more enjoyable.
   An installer and launcher makes getting in-game easy.
  
   Despite best efforts, a few crashes 
 still occur.
   Finding servers is not always easy, but those with an IRC client can use #vc-mp-servers to find 
 online servers.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedler1234
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 16, 2006 6:32 am PT
Review:  This is the second version of the game that ive played, played the PS2 one and now this one and 
 the difference in the game isnt that great but it stops the PC version from becoming the best GTA 
 game to date.
  
  The game is almost completely the same as the PS2 one except on the PC the graphics are smoother, 
 you have to manually aim at everything and the cutscenes are different and the game looks and feels 
 alot better.
  
  The graphics of course are better on the PC and the draw distance is better and there are no graphical 
 glitches like in the PS2 but the camera angles and some of the controls are horrid! the camera 
 will constantly be in the way, there is no way of fixing it, you have to manually aim at the person 
 even when youre punching them! they also got rid of the targetting thing unlike the PS2, so now 
 you have to manually aim at the enemies by which time youd get shot down, killing the fun completely. 
 The cutscenes have also been redone and they look a lot better, some are the same but mostly have 
 been changed and different phone calls too but the missions remane the, very fun but difficult.
 
  
  The music of course is great, you can have your own tracklist but otherwise theres a really nice 
 rap station and other music which is good enough, if not better than what you usually listen too. 
 This time period has quite good music.
  
  The game overall is filled with swearing and violence and overall GTA fun, this game looks and 
 feels great, just needs some minor fixes, if you cant get this game on the PS2, then get it on 
 the PC as a last resort, this game needs to be played though, shouldnt be missed just for the minor 
 problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krudo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2006 3:50 am PT
Review:  Everyone knows San Andreas, some people (Politicians) hate it and some people (Gamers) love it. 
 The game is set in 1992 and has an obvious gangsta tint. In this you start off in Los Santos, a 
 mimic of Los Angeles.
  
  You then move onto San Fierro, which is a copy of San Francisco and then finally to Las Venturas, 
 A copy of Las Vegas. The cities have architecture that relates to this and has features that relate 
 to it. It also carries this on through the story, but I won't ruin it for you. 
  
  The gameplay is the same, with a few tweaks but this makes it easy to get into. The game unlocks 
 a lot after each mission and you always feel that the missions have a point. 
  
  There is no invisible roof on the sky! This means you can fly up, jump out and plummet down, with 
 parachute of course! This takes a long time but it is so addictive! 
  
  The voice acting is great and there are a lot of famous actors such as Samuel L Jackson. The soundtrack 
 is also very accurate apart from it swears and in that time they were not allowed to swear on the 
 radio. There are references to this though.
  
  The game is also very stacked in the visual department and from the air it is simply breathtaking! 
 The packages are gone but are replaced with other features such as tags, horseshoes and oysters. 
 
  
  The amount of Easter Eggs in the game is simply outstanding, wherever you go you can see them, 
 whether it is in the police shower room or on the top of a big bridge.
  
  This game will take you in and swallow you whole, say goodbye to your social life! This will last 
 you over a year and you can revisit it over and over again. Words can't describe the game so just 
 go and buy it!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiesenthal
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 12, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas takes place in the early 90's, when Carl Johnson returns home. His 
 mother has been killed, and a gang war is coming up. He need to help his homies. The story feels, 
 as always, very authentic and believable. 
  For those who have played GTA III or Vice City, knows that Rockstar always tries to make the games 
 larger and larger every time. That is certainly the case in this game as well. 
  Since the game is on a DVD-disc, the world that you can explore is much, much larger than in Vice 
 City. There are three major cities; Los Santos (Los Angeles) , San Fierro (San Francisco) and Las 
 Venturas (Las Vegas) , and . 
  In order to survive, you must eat at one of the restaurants, that are scattered throughout the 
 state. On your spare time, you can play pool, video games, black jack, among many other things. 
 
  The variety of vehicles is huge. There are enormous American 70's cars, European sports cars, bicycles, 
 helicopters, boats, a jumbo jet etc.
  Or, if you wish to travel without anybody having any chance of stopping you, you could just jump 
 into a train, and smash everything that comes in your way! There is simply something for everyone 
 to do whenever they wish. 
  The voice acting is of absolute top class, with such names as Samuel L. Jackson, Peter Fonda and 
 James Woods. This really ads to the games greatness. 
  Like in GTA III and Vice City, there is a radio where you can tune in your favourite type of music 
 (almost) . I'm not a fan of hip hop and such music, which, I am sorry to say, is a large part of 
 the radio content. However, there is one station that plays classic rock, K-DST. That station is 
 the best so far. 
  I guess that hip hop was the music that CJ and his friends listened to in the early 90's, so it's 
 a part of that lifestyle, and must (?) be in the game about them. If you don't like the music at 
 all, you can always play your favourite MP3 files in the game as well. 
  There are, as always, some missions that are quite hard to beat (especially the school missions) , 
 but when you do beat them, you become very proud of yourself. 
  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is an absolutely amazing game, that I will never get tired of playing. 
 You have salute Rockstar for the amount of work that this must have meant for them. I can hardly 
 wait until the next game comes out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gotarz
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 14, 2006 2:43 am PT
Review:  You will Never TiredIt .
  One world accessable .
  Every thing you want .
  
  Racing
  shooting
  Roling
  Lieing
  Dieing
  Boxing
  Kicking
  every thing
  Gaming at
  Day 
 Night Mednight Morning
  Well what do you want ? ...
  Perhaps the best quests in the game are the ones that require you to use stealth, as the combat 
 missions are fairly simple to carry out. There's a strong undercurrent of Deus Ex and Splinter 
 Cell in the stealth missions, as you can sneak past guards and security cameras, pick locks, and 
 try to hack into computers along the way. Some vampire types specialize in stealth, but it's not 
 too hard for other vampire types to skulk quietly in the dark. One issue is that,
  since gta takes place at night, most of the game is dismally dark, making it difficult to see anything. 
 Unfortunately, you're not allowed to have a flashlight, so that means on some levels you might 
 just have to bump up the gamma levels in the video settings just so you can see where you're going. 
 Or what's lurking up ahead. 
  
  The game itself is populated by all sorts of interesting characters who come to life thanks to 
 the Source engine's amazing facial expression technology (though the characters in san andreas 
 don't look as good as the characters in Half-Life 2) . The dialogue itself is sharply written -- there 
 are many memorable lines and phrases uttered by the characters. Keep in mind that san andreas is 
 a mature-rated game and it contains sexual themes, although it never feels too gratuitous.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razzle-Dazzle
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 13, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  I'm sure you've read all the reviews by now for if you're reading this one, so I'll just add some 
 of my thoughts other than the obvious. Even if you already own the Playstation2 or Xbox versions 
 of SA, I highly recommend purchase of the PC version too, simply for the improved graphics quality. 
 I think its well-worth it! Also for all the online mod content thats being made for the game as 
 I speak. Only disapointments I have are NO bullet holes in the game world, on cars glass other 
 than the windshields doesn't shatter from gunfire and rear glass never breaks atall, and gun sound 
 effects are sometimes silly but that can be fixed with mods I'm sure are on the internet somewhere. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampiro_HuntT3R
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 11, 2006 10:09 pm PT
Review:  2 Months ago When I played this Game, I didnt find it Interesting, I just thought it to be the waste 
 of time, All My Friends Used to Talk about it alot so I decided to Give it a Second Try, I did and 
 I liked it Very Much. The Aeroplane Missions were abit Difficult at start Because I didnt had an 
 Anolog Controller but now I am Used to this KeyBoard and Now I can Fly it Pretty good but Still 
 it needs more Practise, Other then That All the Characters are Kool and Specially Woozie, I really 
 Like This guy, He is Kool, The Way He Talks is Amazing.
  The Game is A Master Piece, I use Cheats so Its Even More Fun Then playing the Game Without the 
 Cheats. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GizmoSimo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2006 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Grand theft auto san andreas is a great game as grand theft auto 3 and vice city were , it adds 
 more stuff to the series and a load off new vehicles , setting yourself on a rampage and killing 
 inocent people in brutal and painful ways has never been so much fun as this time you take a look 
 at gangs from LA , there is also this awesome cameo of gta3 dude .
  
  The game will have you killing people from the beginning , and although all of the missions are 
 fairly easy , there are enough missions to keep you playing for more than 40 hours , the secrets 
 let you unlock loads of different stuff making the game more fun to play , its as good as its predecessors 
 and will keep you wanting for more .
  
  And the whole sex mini game scandal just brought more attention to this game from part of the people 
 who don't support violent games . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mardilayo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 8, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  I can't ask for more reality in a game, gta is just the most terrific virtual experience of the 
 thug life, 100%gangsta, I want my kids to play it, I even started to go to the gym to get a gangsta 
 physique, this is life on the streets, the music is perfect, i just miss the latin radio station 
 that vice city had, even though is the best game of history, I keep thinking about the first time 
 i saw MTV in 1994, it was gansta all over the place, the you turned to HBO there was another gangsta 
 show, I just loved it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahshimi
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2006 2:38 am PT
Review:  In GTA San Andreas eventually there isn't anything you cannot do. You can drive cars, motorcycles, 
 fire truck, ride bikes and fly planes. Even you can steal military jet fighters and chopper. Moreover, 
 you can have a hair cut, a tattoo or building up some muscle. One of the best things in San Andreas 
 is that your character now knows how to swim and won't sink to the bottom of the sea such as GTA 
 3 and Vice City. The game starts off not like the rest of any GTA you start and a guy who came 
 to his home town to find that things went wrong and out of his families' gang control. In my opinion, 
 the becomes very boring in the beginning as you don't have much money to start with and the missions 
 dont payoff well but as you progress in the everything gets better even you can start gang wars 
 and take territories. At the end this is one of the best games I have ever played and it is worth 
 buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limpbizkit70
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 7, 2006 11:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great game which has the whole set all in 1like "action, killing, humor and bad 
 language". You started out as a person from liberty city but as the cops caught you they just dropped 
 you off at the Ballas Country. When you countinue later into the game you would meet more gangster 
 and might need to do missions that may be stupid or sometimes senseless. And later you get to be 
 well known by cops and gangsters and some cops would try to hunt you down but some would help you!
 
  
  The annoying thing about this game is that when you cannot win that particular mission you cannot 
 go ahead with other missions until you finish those missions you are assign to!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwollenFridge
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 7, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Staggering variety; superb voice-acting; funny radio DJs; long missions; huge, open-ended 
 nature; three cities and lots of countryside; endless amount of replayability; customizable look; 
 great story; mouse-look while driving; stronger missions that are more fun, more varied, and more 
 clear; great artistic style and fully realized world; stats-tracking.
  
  Cons: Irritating audio bugs; dated graphics; radio not quite as good, though still great; no option 
 to replay any mission once you beat the game.
  
  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is the most recent installment in the Grand Theft Auto series. Judging 
 by how Rockstar's latest two installments in the series were tremendously innovative games that 
 were both executed masterfully and critically raved about, San Andreas has an extremely tough act 
 to follow. But even after Vice City and Liberty City (the previous two installments) , San Andreas 
 is just so awesome that it's surprising. It's the pinnacle of the series, and comes in what is 
 probably it's best version on the PC.
  
  The core, basic gameplay of San Andreas will be familiar to old GTA fans. The game controls similarly 
 and has many of the same vehicles. One terrific new addition that is one of the best things about 
 the PC version is that while driving you can now mouse-look around. This may be a little awkward 
 at first to old GTA veterans, but it's easy enough to adjust, and it makes the old way of doing 
 things seem out-dated.
  
  One big new gameplay addition to San Andreas is that it tracks a huge amount of your stats. One 
 example that many people offer is that CJ can now get in shape if he doesn't work out at the gym 
 and eats too much. While this sounds like it can turn the game into an irritating chore of micromanagement, 
 it really doesn't. You really only need to work out a few times for extremely short periods, and 
 the payoff is big - CJ will be able to run, bike, and swim longer and faster, and hit harder. Plus, 
 the game tracks a lot more stats that you really don't need to pay any attention to. As you use 
 certain types of guns more and more, your skill with that gun will go up, and you will be more 
 accurate with it. Similarly, the more you drive a car, the more your skill with cars will go up, 
 which tightens the controls with it. If you get your skill on a motorcycle high enough, you probably 
 won't ever fall off. All this may make it sound like you start out as totally useless, but this 
 really isn't true, as even the bottom skill levels are very playable. It's a subtle addition to 
 the game, but stats are so well implemented that they're extremely easy to appreciate. 
  
  San Andreas also has a scope that is just much bigger than its predecessors - which is saying something, 
 as those games were already dramatically bigger than their competitors. Instead of one city like 
 before, San Andreas has a total of three massive cities (Los Santos, Las Venturas, and San Fierro) 
 and all the country-side in between, which is littered with small towns as well. What's really 
 remarkable is that all these cities are remarkably fully-realized and differ in many ways, from 
 their artistic look to the stuff in them. Put simply, while it would've been easy for so ambitious 
 an idea to ultimately end up in three carbon-copy cities with boring tracts of land in between 
 them, but this isn't the case at all, and it's one of the most impressive aspects of San Andreas. 
 If that were all, that would be enough, but Rockstar make the scope even more huge by not only 
 adding in ridiculous amounts of side missions and activities for you to participate in, but making 
 practically everything playable. Go into a bar and see a guy playing around at a pool table? Play 
 him and try to win some money. Want to take a shot at roulette in the casinos? Go right ahead. 
 Dancing, racing, gambling, whatever - it's all in here, and it's almost all really, really fun, 
 lending the game an incredible amount of variety past the missions.
  
  GTA's open-ended nature is back in full-form here too. The sheer fun of exploration is boosted 
 in this game, as pretty much everywhere you'll be able to find new things and stuff to do. But 
 if all you really feel like is grabbing a car and provoking an insane police chase (which are just 
 as awesome as before) , you're still free to do that, although it's hard to imagine ever being unsatisfied 
 with the main missions of the story.
  
  The missions of San Andreas see Rockstar being just as ambitious as they are in every other part 
 of the game. One good part is that they've all been more clear with their objectives, preventing 
 previous problems with obscuring the meaning behind the objectives that was sometimes in the previous 
 games. The best thing about the missions is that they're just a lot more fun than any other game 
 out there, though. While Rockstar did include some missions that will be familiar to old veterans, 
 they just go all-out with incredible, cinematic experiences in these missions. It almost seems 
 cruel to reveal some of the experiences you'll face as you play the game, but for those of you 
 who don't believe me: You'll rob a casino; drive a motorcycle into an airplane taking off, bomb 
 it, and then jump out; and chase a train on a motorcycle - and missions with these kind of breathtaking 
 experiences not only occur fairly often, but have an incredible amount of variety in them due to 
 the imagination behind them. The core gameplay mechanics are so fun that this game probably would've 
 been fun had they simplified missions down to the typical kill this guy or drive this person here 
 type of thing throughout the whole game, but it's all the better for the ambition behind it.
  
  The graphics in San Andreas are it's weak point. They still seem to be using a GTA3 engine, 
 and while it's admittedly souped up, graphics have advanced a lot, and the game engine is just 
 too old, as it doesn't actually render a lot of the environment, instead using horrible 2D textures. 
 The rest of the game doesn't look so bad, and best of all, all the artistic ideas are great, and 
 there are lots of shimmery effects used that draw you in. Plus, the PC version is easily the best 
 by a long shot, since you can crank the resolution and all the effects, and it does scale well 
 to old computers. It's still not great though.
  
  The voice-acting is uniformly terrific, and all the actors pull off their jobs not only admirably 
 but with great delivery, effectively conveying the great story. The radio is great, especially 
 the hilarious DJs and commercials, but it's noticeably not quite as fantastic as the radio in the 
 previous games. All the other sounds are appropriately hard-hitting and fitting, and add to the 
 game's immersion. Worst of all about this PC version is that there are irritating audio bugs that 
 have gone unpatched, most noticeably a bug that causes all sound to drop out except the radio whenever 
 it rains, which is thankfully infrequent.
  
  This game is amazing. It's got incredible scope and variety, cinematic, terrific missions, a great 
 story with great voice acting, and a huge, cohesive, fully realized world. I just can't say enough 
 about this game. To sum it up, I'll put it bluntly:
  
  Get San Andreas. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 5, 2006 4:24 am PT
Review:  This game is FANTASTIC. 
  Even without the pc upgrades, it is in a league of it's own. The hugely improved graphics and draw 
 distance are a very welcome improvement as the only major problem with the ps2 version was the 
 graphics. 
  
  I'm sure you know that it is an entire state and 6x as big as vice city. The land varies from gridlocked 
 cities to hillbilly infested countryside to vast desert. The cities seem much more realistic and 
 the motorways make getting from a to b much easier and better. 
  The veichles are new and the old are updated with a 90s look. The cars and crashes now look more 
 realistic. 
  
  The problems - yes, unfortunately there is some. some people have had a few bugs but most are very 
 minor. I won't go into detail as about 97% of people are fine with it but there is a fix for the 
 biggest problem - sound. 
  Go to start, run and type in dxdiag. exe Click on the sound tab and put hardware accelleration to 
 standard acelleration or to off or basic if problems continue. I write this because, if you are 
 slightly put off by the sound problems and are reading this, rest assured, it is not much of a 
 problem, and everyone has had it fixed with this. 
  
  So, what else can i say? This game is the best GTA by far and maybe the best game of the year. 
 If you haven't already - BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Farmerboy_NFAN
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 26, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 50/50 Gameplay is almost perfect. You can almost choose all missions in the order you 
 want or, go collect some horseshoes, get gamling, make some superstunts, grab a car and get joyriding 
 or just kill some pedestrians.
  
  Graphics: 20/20 The graphics look awesome, I played it in 640x480 mode but that's just because 
 of my PC, on someone else his pc
  (20 inch monitor 1600x1280 3.4GHZ i believe) they looked beautiful and razor sharp.
  
  Sound: 
 9/10 Very good soundtrack, reason for 9/10? you only hear music a vehicle (you can make you're own 
 radio station) sometimes when you're walking you just hop in a car to hear music.
  
  Replay: 10/10 I think i played this game for 3 weeks or so, that's very long if you think about 
 that time was summer break and i was playing it 5-8 hours a day.
  
  Value: 10/10 This game is worth double the money, even more value score for me becouse it was a 
 gift.
  
  Final: 99/100 Gooooooood game get this one now if you have about.. 10 bucks :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 5-4-9-3-1-7-3
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2006 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Ever since I was playing this stuff, I end up eliminating any punk-a**ed gangs all day long and 
 speaking their language, a profane language. I never believed that the game can't censor the F 
 word, but it's OK, some people in that game started screaming "I DON'T GIVE A **** anyway because 
 they are just gangs addicted to this game due to mature consents. Even some kids are beginning 
 to be like those guys. They keep on naming gang members their "OGs", maybe that would be cool in 
 my Chain Gang Soldier Division. Those guys in the game keep on referring to their friends as their 
 **** "mother fuckers" and **** I don't know why but maybe its the way they live when it comes to 
 gangs like those punk-assed Ballas and the los vato loco Vagos bastards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cqdemal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Since its PC release, I have completed Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas four times. On the first run, 
 it took me around 30 hours. After that, I sank at least 50 hours into each game. All in all, I 
 think the game has provided me with more than 500 (!) hours of pure joy, punctuated by the occasional 
 technical glitch.
  
  I just started another game several days ago. It's still as fun as ever.
  
  Nobody does free-roaming 
 like the GTA III trilogy. The world of San Andreas is a stunning achievement, both artistically 
 and technologically. In past GTA titles, we have one city to play with, usually divided into three 
 sections. Here, we have three cities and two countryside areas. San Andreas has perhaps 3 or 4 
 times more content packed into it than the last game, Vice City.
  
  The core game itself hasn't changed since the days of GTA III. You wander around freely, doing 
 whatever you wish to do with the environment providing somewhat believable responses. You undertake 
 missions for people from time to time to push the story forward. The difference in San Andreas 
 is that the mission design here rocks. You can get to steal a rap superstar's rhyme sheet, steal 
 a speeding tanker truck on a highway, rob a casino, or even fly jet fighters. While the AI is somewhat 
 dodgy, it's never an irritant since you're having so much fun with the mission objectives you hardly 
 ever notice the glitches. Besides, it'd be unplayable with a really smart AI, as our protagonist 
 Carl Johnson isn't exactly the most durable guy in the gaming world.
  
  San Andreas also throws in a lot of bells and whistles. You can eat food (and get fat) . You can 
 exercise (and become stronger) . You can change clothes and hairstyles. You can even have girlfriends. 
 Or play basketball. Or pool. The list goes on and on. It's almost impossible to feel bored while 
 wandering around in San Andreas.
  
  The only issues I have with the game are technical. The GTA III engine, while heavily enhanced, 
 is still a four-year-old engine which didn't even look good back then. Here, it shows its age more 
 than ever, with blurry textures and weird clipping issues everywhere. The models are very low on 
 polygon count, although this is somewhat compensated by the animation, which is extremely lifelike. 
 The PC version adds some nice-looking detailed shadows, which is definitely an improvement over 
 the primitive shadows found in the PS2 version.
  
  The sound doesn't fare as well, though. While the music and voice-acting is perfect as always, 
 bugs make things go sour. If it rains, all sound effects go mute and you're left with just the 
 car radio for your company. With the v1.01 patch, the sound usually comes back after it stops raining, 
 but this is hardly any better than before. Changing radio stations rapidly makes the sound effects 
 go out at times, too.
  
  While the game has been criticized for its violent and sexual overtones, it's undeniable that Grand 
 Theft Auto: San Andreas is a towering achievement in gaming. The world within the game is gigantic, 
 packed wall-to-wall with fun, and has (mostly) great production values. San Andreas gave me hundreds 
 of hours of entertainment, and it will keep on doing that for me until the next GTA arrives on 
 the PC.
  
  If you still haven't bought it yet, run for it. Give Rockstar some support. Cartoon violence isn't 
 going to make anyone really become more violent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shazzy435
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 2, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  It is just unbelieveable to see the transitioning of the GTA series from I to II to III to Vice 
 City, to now San Andreas. Each of these games is better than the one before as one will notice 
 with the San Andreas game. Throughout this game, one will enjoy not only the unbelieveable story 
 line, but the side-missions, and other mini-games included. One will truly enjoy the Casino in 
 which you can play video poker and such, and even a little game called basketball in which can 
 get very addicting at times I must admit. Having the capability to put your own MP3's in the game 
 is the major difference with the PS2 version in which I feel makes the PC game better. Thus, purchasing 
 GTA: San Andreas is a must for the PC, and one will not be disappointed if doing so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: langrisser2005
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 23, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar follow Vice City up with San Andreas, but do they delivier? The Answer is Yes, San Andreas 
 proves to be the best in the GTA series.
  
  San Andreas stars CJ (Carl Johnson) a man returning back to his home from Liberity City to rekindle 
 with his brother and gang. Carl left Los Santos after being blamed for the death of his younger 
 brother, Brian, by his older brother, Sweet. The murder of his mother causes him to return for 
 her funeral. However returning home isn't a happy one as greeting cops (Officer Tackleberry) let 
 CJ know they are watching him, and also the disorder among the Grove Street Family .Main Characters 
 have always been a main issue in these games and CJ is just as cool as previous characters. San 
 Andreas has used the same lot of elements from GTA3 and Vice City but also implemented new ones 
 in improving on its previous counterparts. Your character can now Swim in water, Climb Fences, 
 improve your character by training your muscles, and agility running as well. Also there are customize 
 things you can do with CJ like add/remove clothes, tattoos, accessories so you can make look like 
 a real 'punk' or a wacky clown.
  More options open later on such as getting girlfriends &amp; taking territories from other gangs 
 in Los Santos and hiring members to assist you in Gang War.
  
  There are 3 Major areas in San Andreas. You start in Los Santos making your gang known then move 
 to San Fierro where you'll be hitting more the country side then finally Las Venturas where you'll 
 be facing more tough competition. A huge world to explore which many options available as you proceed 
 further in the game.
  
  Gameplay is great as ever, good 3rd-person perspective with better weapons and more vehicles to 
 steal. With Over 100+ Missions with side pieces and mini games it will set you up for a lot of 
 hours.
  
  Graphics are splendid. They have improved from Vice City, crisper, cleaner looks and the world 
 itself looks stunning. Character detail is more improved, not so block-headed and the atmosphere 
 looks very real.
  
  San Andreas have brought the radio back with new cool hip songs to listen to which makes the game 
 more enjoyable (especially on those long road trips) Music selection is near or equal best to Vice 
 City's music.
  
  Value-wise there's a lot do in San Andreas, just like any other GTA game. Getting 100% isn't easy 
 and could take some time but it is quite time consuming. Another Great game by Rockstar, they just 
 keep putting the standard up, i just can't begin to imagine what more they can do! GTA San Andreas 
 Rocks!! Go get it if you already haven't. GO!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lechrous
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 31, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  There has to be some game that you can tstop playing again and again,, and GTA: San Andreas is 
 not different. It features superb gameplay, sound ( and the radio stations are very cool ) , and 
 feature that has been put in the game needs some applause. 
  Carl (main character) has a lot of ground to play on. The game has very detailed maps which can 
 take ages to be discovered, but its worht a try. There are lots of weapons that would be used to 
 have some bloody fun in the streets. There are some cool parts like lowrider competitions, you 
 have to mod a lowrider then take it to the competition and beat it if youcan!
  
  theres pretty much everything you'd wan with this title, and theres some hidden hot coffee , if 
 you want.!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockmasteR-_-
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 31, 2006 9:55 am PT
Review:  This is the best game that I ever played, the graphics are superb, the game is extremely addictive, 
 you can never get board from playing it over and over.
  
  Rockstar really succeeded to make this game close to reality, where u can dress CJ (You) up, feed 
 him, cut his hair, and everything that a normal person do, but the difference is that he is a Gangsta!!! 
 :) 
  
  the game never ends of it's funny situation, and specially OG LOC, Big Smoke
  and the Number 1 Smoker in the world Ryder...
  
  let's us not forget about Denise who will 
 be your girlfriend once you save her...
  
  I will give an advice for all the players who did not yet buy the game, do it, BUY IT you will 
 not regret that.
  
  and for who, who have an old PC (256 RAM, 32 or 64 VGA, 1500 or 2000 CPU) the game will work, cause 
 there is 32 bit colors and there is 16 bit colors in the graphics settings...
  
  Finally, Rockstar games like always, YOU ROCK...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: batistafan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 30, 2006 1:49 am PT
Review:  This game rocks and the best so far in the GTA series. Its a very addictive game and you can do 
 way more stuff than GTA Vice City. You can work out, steal a train, buy more clothes, swim and 
 more stuff. The city in this one is huge and better and there are more gangs which is cool. There 
 are more missions and you can ride on a jet pack which awesome. It is cool how you can get fat 
 and be really buff. Also this is one of the best games I have ever played. It is a must have game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nerdsaw
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2006 11:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is a classic you can practically do anything in the game!
  
  Gameplay: The game play I'd say is great you can do anything basically recruit gang members to 
 blast on some fools and even dress up your character.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are good you cant really say that they are crap but you can live with it. 
 I never had a problem with the graphics I reckon they were OK.
  
  Sound: The sound of the game is pretty good, shooting a gun isnt really what it would sound like 
 in real life but you can get used to it. Sometimes when riding in a car its hard to hear the radio 
 from the car's engine.
  
  Value: This game is a must have if you love action and freedon you have to get this! Simple as 
 That! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeorgeTopouria
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2006 12:19 am PT
Review:  The so famous GTA series have once again given us a new game, with even more better features and 
 high quality execution.
  
  The game starts with the main character returning to his home streets to his mother's funerals. 
 But as he returns and remembers his childhood and faces all the problems his brothers have on the 
 streets, he decides to stay and help them along.
  This is where the game begins, and where the GTA series do another huge step in game development.
 
  
  The graphics, even though not really looking different from the previous game, still has a deep 
 flow in them, and the incredibly designed city, from citizens to cars, from the huge landscapes 
 to casinos, are a real improvement from the previous game. The only thing to whine here about is 
 some low-quality textures found in inner locations.
  
  But still, there isn't anything that might refrain you from enjoying this game, simply because 
 it's a really fun ride, wheither or not you are into the GTA games.
  Speaking shortly - Get this game, now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 28, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  I had never played a GTA game before buying this and was not sure what to expect. But I wanted 
 to give it a try and see what all the fuss was about so went down to my local store and picked 
 a copy up.
  
  The first thing that struck me was the excellent packaging. Everything from the book and poster 
 was top notch and gave the whole thing a quality feel about it.
  
  I loaded the game up next and jumped straight in. Wow is all I can say. I loved it from the outset.
 
  
  Granted, the graphics may not be to everyones taste and the content could be classed as a little 
 'close to the mark' but for an enjoyable game this is as good as it gets.
  
  The missions are great and start you off at an easy pace, gradually getting harder as you progress 
 through the game. What will strike you though is just how much there is to do. Everywhere you look 
 and everywhere you go there are so many side missions and jobs etc that you can just do in addition 
 to the main stuff.
  
  So I would recommend this to anyone, go out and get a copy, you will not be disappointed :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unopu2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 28, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  ..."You wanna be a hijack victim or a homicide?"..., and bam!, i got a new car.
  Missions, Betrayal, "justice", some nasty jokes and a little to much violence, makes a great post 
 adolescence game (semi-adult) , this game will have you sit on your %!"!"$ for god knows how many 
 hours... you wanna know the story.. well this is it
  You are CJ (Carl Jonhson) an ex-gang member who had to go to liberty city to make a living, but 
 his mom diying pull him back into Los santos memories and troubles. his brother sweet , and some 
 old friends put him up to the current situation. 
  "The things are all messed up in groove street"...
  Since the time CJ step foot in Los Santos 
 all he can get is trouble, at first officer tempenni give him a hard time by stealing your wallet 
 and your ride. so you (player) will find yourself traying to get back home from enemy territory 
 .. on a bike!.
  As soon as you get home, you find a old .. fat.. friend, and the story begins.
  A map full of 
 cool places, missions all over the place, fast cars, etc. what more do you need?!. 
  In case that you dont feel like reading some stupid story about a new-made orfan, you do the next..
 
  grab the narest car, run over some pedestrians, get some wanted stars, and keep making a mess. 
 You will find your self running away from police cars and bikes... FBI, military forces. so.. be 
 up to the situation. 
  **Get some machine guns, and a rocket lauchers for a lond terrorism reign hehe.**
  For the technical 
 overview the game got some of the best graphics, considering that you have to make a super-large 
 map move on a regular pc.
  The sound is great, and if you don`t like the music, put some mp3 of your personal taste, and enjoy 
 your favourite music.
  if you looking for a game, that you can play for some time, this is your game, otherwise this is 
 your game. hehe
  
  Personal BEST.
  "FROM ARGENTINA WITH LOVE" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acidplanet
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 25, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  have you ever played a race and the traffic makes you want to hurl your computer out the window? 
 for some reason, when you drive a bullet and hit up the nitro, a taxi seems to be driving at the 
 exact same speed as you! is that possible?
  speaking if taxis, it's as if Rockstar deliberately made these cars the most annoying of all vehicles 
 to share a road with. you're driving around minding your busines when unexpectedly, this taxi who's 
 in the other lane makes a daring attempt to cut you off. he does, slowing down as you try to go 
 around him and then has the audacity to honk you!! I tell you, its gets on my nerves!!
  they HAVE to improve traffic physics and AI in the next GTA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XanderKage
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 25, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  I don't know where to begin... Almost everything is very good. First of all it improves the series. 
 The camera controls are much better, especially on the consoles, vehicle control is better, story 
 is great, amazing gameplay, easy to get in to, the ambiance... You got to play it to understand 
 it completely... Also stuff like swimming, climbing walls, change clothes and hair, rpg elements, 
 more cars and huge terrain to explore were added that just make the gameplay more enjoyable and 
 fun.
  Although some things are still to be improved, like graphics or that car disappearing bug, the 
 game is unbelievable. And besides, if the game was perfect, there would no room for improvements 
 for the next GTA's...
  In conclusion the game is excellently done, still needs a little improvements in graphics, but 
 it doesn't spoil the game. This is a must-have not only for a GTA fan, but also for any one that 
 likes great games with amazing gameplay and deep storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morgoth22
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2006 4:42 am PT
Review:  OK so here I am in the midst of the "Hot Coffee" saga thinking it's about time I wrote a review 
 of the game I have been playing for the past month or so. So how does San Andreas shape up on the 
 PC? Read on to find out...
  For reference, my system has these specs: 3400+ at 2.2Ghz, 1 gig pc3200, X800XT.
  
  Graphics 
 - 7/10
  
  This is probably one of the things that annoys me the most about this game, in that the graphics 
 haven't really changed very much from the last installment. Due to the current state of PC games, 
 some of the detail in San Andreas falls short of the current best looking games out there. The 
 character models are blocky and whilst draw distances are impressive, the textures remain indistinct 
 even on my system.
  
  There are no problems with frame rates for me personally, but others have reported that on lower 
 end systems, some missions become impossible due to the slowdown. After earlier negativity, what 
 San Andreas does well is the cars and other vehicles. Each of these are well detailed and accurate, 
 though mystifyingly they are always dirty.
  
  So whilst they could do with a face lift in some areas including environments, the graphics are 
 solid, just not very ground-breaking. However, considering the fact that it is a PS2 port, it isn't 
 a bad effort.
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  
  By far the most important part of any game, San Andreas really shines through in this aspect. For 
 any fans of the series, though there have been some changes such as an increased amount of mini-games, 
 the loss of hidden packages and rampages, levelling up and the somewhat suspect camera work at 
 times, most things remain the same. This all in all leads to one of the most fun games out there 
 full stop.
  
  The sheer variety of missions and vehicles as well as the general mayhem to be had on any given 
 day is simply phenomenal. There are missions centered around driving, flying, shooting or indeed 
 a combination of all three. The controls are largely very well implemented. Though some people 
 seem to have issues with flying, I would urge everyone using this to consider that with a little 
 practice, this will in fact not be a problem. Flying is a little twitchy at first, for example, 
 but as soon as you have had a little practice on the mandatory flying school, you'll be well away!
 
  
  As well as the main story which will allow you to sample many aspects of the game, there are a 
 number of side quests such as valet missions, and races as well as collecting oysters, horseshoes 
 and spraying tags (replacing the packages) to name but a few things. Cars can now be modded which 
 is a nice touch and though some things may be a little drawn out, most side missions and extras 
 are quite satisfying and usually result in some sort of reward.
  
  The guns in the game are nicely varied as usual, from shotguns and silenced pistols through to 
 bazooka's, a flamethrower and a hugely destructive minigun. A slightly disappointing aspect of 
 the gun play is that there is no ragdoll on the enemies, so killing is very similar to previous 
 installments. Yes it works off the same engine, but it would have been nice to see Havok physics 
 as is the norm now in many newer PC games. A levelling up system has also been added for the guns, 
 which will increase accuracy and allow you to dual wielding shotguns and mini SMG's.
  
  The AI in the game is the only things that really needs work and this is what prevents the game 
 from getting the 10. Opponents on foot, especially during gang wars for territory will run straight 
 at you or take very strange paths if they cannot get to you directly. In a similar way, some of 
 the skill of the others drivers around you can be incredibly suspect - if you clip them, expect 
 them to suddenly speed up and ram you. It can be frustrating at times as the behaviour is often 
 so unpredictable.
  
  However, overall I cannot stress how fun this game is. Whenever you pick it up, the sheer openess 
 and number of things to do is mind-boggling and interesting enough to keep you occupied for a good 
 30-40 hours on the first play through.
  
  Story - 10/10
  
  It's very hard to put into words how good the story is in this game without spoiling it. Suffice 
 it to say that the dialogue is excellent (though there is no lip-synching) and very well acted 
 throughout. Each character forms a really distinct identity and has their part to play in the many 
 cutscenes between missions. They are never drawn out, and provide an excellent backdrop to a game 
 which sees you progress from the gangs of Los Santos through San Fierro to the riches and business 
 of Las Venturas... and back again. The gang mentality is well conveyed and whilst the dialogue is 
 somewhat crude at times, it is very fitting for the situation.
  
  Sound - 6/10
  
  The radio stations are as varied and good as ever in the latest installment. Whilst WCTR talk radio 
 is not quite as good as Chatterbox was, in general there is something for everyone on each station 
 ranging from the classic rock of K-DST to the dance of SF-UR and the rap and hip-hop of Radio Los 
 Santos. If you don't like the music, then that is not a problem as there is now a user track player 
 where you can easily add your own tunes to the game and have adverts play in between, thus forming 
 your own station - a very good touch.
  
  However, there are bugs with the sound, preventing it from getting the good score it would otherwise 
 deserve. Many people have reported issues with the sound and no driver updates have fixed it. They 
 tend to happen across different hardware configurations, but due to the recent controversy, Rockstar 
 may be forced into fixing these errors in an upcoming patch. Bugs have included sound not playing 
 correctly in cut scenes, no engine noise or footsteps, and completely losing the radio when it 
 rains.
  
  Replayability - 10/10
  
  As mentioned previously, this game has a lot to offer, so much in fact that it has a huge replay 
 value. There is less of an order to the missions this time, giving far more freedom to explore 
 and generally have a good laugh in between story missions. The scale of the environments and variety 
 of modes of transport give the game an endless scope for causing chaos, or simply going for a drive 
 in the newly implemented rural sections of the game. The quest to gain 100% completion is a tough 
 one... doing only the story missions would give you around 65-70% total completion, so that gives 
 you an idea of how much this begs to be re-played.
  
  Closing Comments
  
  Despite some flaws in the port of the game that were not present in previous installments, GTA: SA 
 stands as a great addition to any PC gaming collection. What draws everyone to it is the fun that 
 can be had, as well as the variety of activities, most of which I have only very briefly touched 
 on and are well implemented. It almost tries to do too much, but stops just short and ends up as 
 a very satisfying purchase.
  
  8/10 due to the flaws, both bugs and graphics, but otherwise worthy of more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themubashir
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 20, 2006 1:57 am PT
Review:  Gta san andreas is the best game ever made. note i m saying best game ever. i m not talking about 
 any consoles or gizmos or any particular year. this game is an out an out winner over all the games.
 
  you get a chance to do almost everything possible (in an action adventure game its rare) .
  STORY-the story is much better than Vice Ciy and has many well written charactors.
  GRAPHICS-the 
 graphics r excellent. its a visual treat for the eyes.
  GAMEPLAY-San andreas expands the level of gameplay unlike any other game.
  SOUND-the sound, music 
 and voice acting r superbly done.
  In the end i would like to say that GTA San Andreas is a game which leaves no margin for error. Its 
 a classic game.
  GAMING WAS NEVER SO MUCH FUN
  P. S. Iis never ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlosfcoleal
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 18, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  This game just like all the others gta its fantastic, because it gives you the chance to whatever 
 you want to, and it is not a game to throw after you finish it, because there are so many things 
 to do that it does not cut your wind off and make you just follow the story.
  
  For other reasons this game in my own opinion its a great game check out the details, the graphics 
 engine gives you an optimal game experience, the music, sound effects, and the history are joined 
 in one of the best games of the year in the action adventure games genre, so fell free to buy it 
 and spend lots of time playing this fantastic game, you won't regret it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: painesk
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jan 18, 2006 7:16 am PT
Review:  another great one from rock star. I was defenently not disappointed as this one was another quality 
 release from Rock Star. The music selections are outstanding. The game was very challenging and 
 fun to play. Dating was a distraction as I was more into playing the missions than remembering 
 to go pick up a girl for a ride and dinner or whatever she wanted to do (drive-by ) :-) . Enjoyed 
 all the vechicles in cluding the various helicopters, airplans amd of course the ever handy jetpack. 
 I used this a bunch to seach around for the various hidden items. The map was huge. I am still 
 not sure I have been everywhere and seen or found the hidden stuff and weapons. Some areas you 
 need the jetpack or a helicopter to get to, especially the mountainous areas. Still have not been 
 able to do the breakin on houses as I was more into the game missions than the side tracks, like 
 dating that robing peoples houses. I will go back and mess with those later. You could make and 
 entire game out of just the sidetracks in this game. I enjoyed riding just the plain old bicycles. 
 Overall I would recommend adding this to your collection
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarek75
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 18, 2006 1:10 am PT
Review:  GTA san andreas is about giving you all, yes all what you want from a great game that you dream 
 about...!! it is like watching a great movie with amazing story line, but this time you are the hero, imagine 
 your self in this real world where you can interact with almost every object in the game. what makes 
 it great and worth spending time playing and discovering is the ability to go any where at any 
 time to do things other than the current mission at hand and you can later return with more experience 
 to accomplish your last mission.
  GTA san andreas really need to push the edge farther by making this life simulation go deep into 
 financial issues into banks and stuff.
  finally it is really amazing real life game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lau_chen87
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2006 12:40 am PT
Review:  :) Talking about this game is more improvement right now~ The GTA 3 & GTA: VC still worth to play 
 .. :) This game is the best when being chasing by the police ~ Hahaha!!!! U can kill the public 
 people , police , and ur own gang members~ Playing these type of game better dont play cheats like 
 the cops lvl down or other thing ~ Just put weapon cheat and health are enough playing ... the 
 sound not very good but the game play people can insult u when u do anything wrong~ u can dancing 
 , drinking&eating ... 
  What i like is the riding bicycle ... sound fun right ? Car can upgrade .... 
  San Andreas area 
 very big ~ sometimes i even get lost ... darn ... this game adding more features , u can swimming 
 training stamina , keeping the players fat or thin ... hahaha~ Best is mission hahaha~ When i start 
 playing GTA 2 and 3 i getting more fun ~ after that when the Rockstars said are going to release 
 GTA: VC .... i just cant wait it ! Hahaha~ What i can say is i loving soo much this game , Those 
 weapon can learn high level shooting ( Aiming head all the time ) HEAD SHOT ~ HAHAHA~ I telling 
 u that i love weapon soo much :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniperz89
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2006 3:00 am PT
Review:  gta san andreas is like the most advanced and best of all gta series. if theres more than san andreas, we 
 hope it'll add in more powerful stuffs like airplanes and multiplayer capability. now about san 
 andreas there's a lot to do:
  1. take a car and nab any loots from street peoples
  2. make missions and own many properties
  3. whack up some mission's boss
  4. get into tournaments 
 of racing
  5. get girlfriends
  6. do whatever you like chewing on nice tasty foods at burger stores, pizza chomps store lol
  7. get 
 many street ppl to fight you
  8. make ur wanted stars rating raised and let the cops chase you around the nice country.
  
 
  more... that's more than imagination. this game puts you into a life of a normal guy but with guns 
 and friends alike that helps pack a punch. u play this guy where he will revenge and take over the 
 whole property of san andreas. play it then u know it. the cheats are out there. but its advised not 
 to use it during gameplay. use it on a 2nd save games or wadeva. this game juz plenty owns.
  hey take some pizzas everytime and whack the people's eating lol. hope for new gtas. masterpiece! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerdimar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2006 10:41 pm PT
Review:  hey GTA :san andreas i think the game is perfect en this game is really good because if you aint 
 got nothing to do you play.......... Gta san andreas
  because there is always something to do en GTA has history it is just not a new game it has 4 or 
 5 other brothers 
  gta 1 
  gta London some expencian pack for gta 1 
  gta 2 the city in that game are = (vice city) (liberty cities) en final (gta sa)
  en then gta 
 3 came that was new for gta because it was 3d just from the back of your player en not from above 
 i think gta 3 has the best citie because it looks so bigg ! 
  en then vice city came in that game you are really heaving tha gta feeling en i think that is realy 
 cool.
  en then the game gta san andreas i think that game is realy realy good you got almost all vehicles 
 but noth a stepp or a submarine but that is not the point but some times if i play gta san andreas 
 ! i think there is to much !!
  yeah it is weird but true but i think gta 3 is the best because of the city
  but this was my 
 2 review i hope you like it 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doom1327
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 13, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  The PC version comes on DVD only and is packaged with a fully bound book that serves as the manual. 
 It's definitely some of the coolest PC game packaging around. This version also has the potential 
 to be the best-looking version of the game by a long shot. Support for higher resolutions makes 
 the textures and characters look sharper and much better than either of the console versions. There's 
 a draw distance slider that, when turned all the way up, almost totally eliminates the draw-in 
 and fogging that's become synonymous with the series. Your Grove Street home looks much more like 
 a run-down South Central neighborhood when you can see more of its surroundings. But all this graphical 
 quality is offset by some serious problems with the sound. Testing on three different machines 
 that exceed the recommended system specs got us three results. On one machine, we didn't experience 
 any audio glitches. On another, the audio simply cut out a lot, leaving you to drive around with 
 only music to keep you company. It's tough to play when you can't hear your mission descriptions. 
 On the third machine, loading up a save game caused a loud grating noise -- which sounded like the 
 bike-riding audio mixed with a helicopter -- to scream out from the middle of the Grove. We had to 
 hop in a car and drive away from the area to make the noises stop. Also, the cutscenes occasionally 
 desynched from the audio, making the lip movement appear to be way off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 10, 2006 2:30 pm PT
Review:  you probably know how this works. The new Grand Theft Auto game comes out in October, but only 
 on the PlayStation 2. Xbox and PC owners have to wait a half a year or so for their versions of 
 the game, and each always has the potential to be better than the original release. That's saying 
 something, because we're already talking about one of the best games of 2004 and the best game 
 in the Grand Theft Auto series. Once again, the wait is over, and Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas 
 is now available on the PC and Xbox. While both versions have aspects that are better than the 
 outstanding PS2 game, visual weirdness on the Xbox and a handful of technical issues on the PC 
 prevent either version from being the clear-cut best of the bunch. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gruug
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:56 pm PT
Review:  First, I played both of the previous two installments of GTA. Both tended to run on the ragged 
 edge of racist content. But both never seemed to cross the line as San Andreas does. In the first 
 10 minutes your character is "profiled" and pulled over by the police and subjected to verbal abuse 
 of untold severity. Now if I wanted this treatment, I would go to a skin-head rally. I must point 
 out that I am a male white guy and I felt abused by what was said to my obviously black character. 
 This was very disconcerting and uncomfortable. 
  
  Second, the amount of down right foul language is again typical of "profiling" and to me was very 
 much uncalled for. I came to expect some of this from the first two GTA's I bought but the amount 
 here is just not right. I would not by this game for anyone under the age of 21 and probably not 
 for anyone over that age. 
  
  Maybe I missed something in what Rock Star was trying to do but this is just plain trash. Avoid 
 it at all costs.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbgun12shot
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I first owned San Andreas on the ps2 a week after its arrival. I was hooked to it, beat it, 
 and more. I now am doing the same to the pc version.
  
  The gameplay is great, it can be decently easy, never VERY easy, and frustrating at times, which 
 is good. Who wants an easy game to just blow through with no challenge? The mission where you have 
 to fly this RC plane through San Fierro shooting delivery boys was so frustrating I got that "soar 
 throat". A downside to the gameplay, the AI is about as good as useless, other than them shooting 
 a rival gangs car to make them get out, they cant shoot for anything, and continue to walk in front 
 of your view while aiming. But I get past this, for when playing solo its a great experience.
 
  
  The graphics are overall good, although I think the characters look blocky, how much more do you 
 expect from GTA? It has to perform so much at once, graphics any better would bog the game down. 
 So other than the characters the graphics are still great, the cities and view can at times be 
 eye candy compared to the ps2 version. 
  
  The sound on the other hand, in my case isnt so good, I get many audio glitches, especially while 
 it is storming, the audio may cut out completely to making the gun shots sound "muffled". But, 
 when the sound is working entirely, its not bad.
  
  The value is good, I have a great time playing this game. Sometimes I laugh, and sometimes I want 
 to cry from frustration. This combination is great, this is the perfect game for me, it is addicting. 
 
  
  I dont care what people have to say about how corrupt this game is! It is rated M for ages 17+, 
 and if parents have to complain that just shows you how ignorant they are for letting their kids 
 play it in the first place, how dare they make a fuss?
  
  One last thing, dont buy this game with a slow computer if you expect this "eye candy" I was just 
 speaking of, I am well above the requirements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 21, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Gta San Andreas is one of the best games i've ever played just like its predecessors! it's simply 
 a load of pleasure and entertainment. graphically it's very stunning; real environment, buildings, 
 cars and all sorts of vehicles and more than that the originality of the 3 cities. as far as the 
 game play is concerned i believe that as soon as you gt into the game, you feel most unlikely to 
 leave your seat and give up playing the game; with such countless activities and thousands of missions 
 and submissions, I would not think that GTA San Andreas is a "motal-game". moreover, the game play 
 is extremely fun and easily accessible. for the sound, unlike some reviewers, i found no trouble 
 with it; it's great, lots of radio-channels and smooth-playing. finally, the story or the plot 
 is very intriguing and striking just like a hollywood movie "i cannot believe i'll make part of 
 a Hollywood movie"!!!! with a game like Gta San Andreas, you are in fact taking a big part in a 
 Hollywood movie !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indraroop
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 3, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  GTA Vice City was remembered because the gameworld was twice the size of Liberty City (GTA 3) ; 
 in GTA San Andreas, the game developers have gone one step further and modelled an entire state, 
 rather than a single city, thus giving gamers one of the largest gaming worlds ever created.
  
  With good gameplay, beautiful graphics and great voice acting, San Andreas reaches a level 
 of perfection that developers crave to reach, but that few games ever attain. What I love about 
 San Andreas is the stats system: With more practice, one actually improves even in the game world, 
 theoretically making the game easier. This is of course offset by the fact that the missions get 
 more and more challenging, which also serves to keep up the gaming intensity. 
  
  The only thing that I dislike about this game is the quality of the graphics when it gets foggy 
 or it rains. The screen becomes grainy and it is very hard to see; I know that this feature is 
 realistic, but it makes for VERY annoying gameplay, and also lags down the PC somewhat. Some missions 
 where you have to escape from a burning building lag tremendously on the PC, but once you tone 
 down the graphics to the lowest setting, you can play just fine, although you will have have to 
 trade graphics for performance for those few missions (I think there are only 2 of the burning 
 building type missions) .
  
  Expect to play this game for 35-45 hours, and also expect to be addicted to this game for as long 
 as you play it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinghotdog18
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 2, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  i think this game is revolitynary rasing the bar for all the copy cats out there are gona have 
 to step up a noch or the gona have all faliures and for what the games is the graphics a great 
 and you have to think about all the things happining at once its amaszing any any of the consoles 
 to (ps2, xbox) and i cant wait till the next gta on ps3 or mybye the 360 rockstar said the system 
 was undetermied but anyways it should be great and i wish all games were a **** amazing gta san 
 andreas its my faviriot game ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 1, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  It's hard to imagine that GTA: SA first started as a 2d Bird view game. That everyone tried to 
 get banned cause they believed the game would instruct the impressionable youth to do "nauthy things." 
 well if they thought that back then, then I can't imagine what they'll make of this.
  
  I've got all the GTA version to date and I'm pleased to say that GTA: SA adds something new to already 
 a great game, Same process as before in GTA: Liberaty city, except for a New story new city and 
 a totaly different feel to the game.
  
  Rather you smash, steal, Home invade or go on a Frenzy kill your way through this game. You will 
 find it challanging none the less. This version covers more on the Street racing and I confess 
 I had to cheat on one to get passed, although I did try like 22 times to do it. You know the saying. 
 "IF you fall, get back up. If you keep falling change the horse." If you like my self arn't a proffessional 
 Rally driver you may have to resort to using the cheats here and there.
  
  with a compleling storyline you wouldn't think there would be much else to the game, but you be 
 wrong. There tones more stuff to do like taking a driving lesson, of flying lessons. 
  
  Just one tip however: When you come to have your first lot of Gang wars don't bother about taking 
 them all! over. Just get a few to get money but essiantly carry on with the story - as you loose 
 them all any way so it seems like a waste of time to me.
  
  I do feel however that with all the violance and the already 18 certificate rating. All the violance 
 and home invasion hints at everything else but the only one thing that it doesn't cover, Is Sexual 
 assault, now don't get me wrong or anything I don't like to see it happen as much as the next person. 
 But with everything else such as taking out your girl friends to have sex, to the Cold blooded 
 murder after you burgled their house and after the Crack house, the only they only hinted at but 
 never touched on is People being raped. It happens in life its sad to say, So this lessens the 
 feeling of it being real or trying to be real so to speak.
  
  However GTA: SA delievers like its Great ancestors GTA and GTA: London
  I hope many more are to 
 follow the wake of this Birth of a Legend 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mr_pink666
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 31, 2005 7:08 pm PT
Review:  It isn't easy to top the Grand Theft Auto series, but San Andreas manages not only to top Vice 
 City and GTA 3 but completely surpass them. San Andreas is by far the best in series and frankly 
 makes the entire genre of action/ driving games (like True Crime) look completely unnecessary. 
 Rockstar took a lot of backlash for their gritty and violent style of gamemaking, but the results 
 here are undeniable. From each burglary, carjacking to brutal gang beating, this game exceeds in 
 every aspect. 
  You say you don't wanna beat a rival gang member to a pulp or run over a hooker? That's fine too, 
 just jump into the nearest ambulance, to save lives. You can even avoid the hectic streets and 
 jump onto a halfpipe on your trusty bmx bike, or deliver packages or take your girl on date, or 
 go dancing. Even after you finish the game, the game is far from over. You could expect to spend 
 more time on the extras then the actual game missions. There is always something to do in San Andreas. 
 There is no limit to the level of detail the gamemakers put into this game, and every bit is appreciated. 
 
  There are some aspects of the game that could be improved, such as the soundtrack, some curiously 
 difficult levels, extremely boring countryside, and some odd technical bugs, but that is a relatively 
 minor flaw. Part of the fun involved is in adding your own music in the game anyway. As for the 
 missions, the developers have improved the level design greatly from previous incarnations. 
  It should be mentioned that the Hot Coffee mod is available for the game, but that should not affect 
 your gameplay. It in no way affects the quality of the game, and is a mere afterthought in light 
 of the numerous things to experience in this game. 
  In closing, there is no experience quite like this game. You can actually wake up, eat a burger, 
 play an arcade game, run a triathlon, see your boys in the hood, go work out , play some ball, 
 pick up your girlfriend, (if you're lucky maybe get a little 'Hot Coffee") and still have time 
 to kill. That is, if you can avoid the cops. If you wanna live the thug life without getting capped 
 or seeing the inside of a cell, this is it. This is defiantly as close to being a gangsta as you'll 
 ever get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTOCTOCTO
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 31, 2005 3:02 pm PT
Review:  IT'S A TESTAMENT TO THE BRILLIANCE of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas that, even after two years 
 and a ton of new features, getting back into the series' latest installment is as easy as riding 
 a bike. Literally. The game's opening sequence has you pedaling a BMX away from rival gangbangers, 
 and even though riding a bike might not sound that exciting, Rockstar manages to make it fun -- 
 just like the next 40+ hours of this amazing epic. Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is arguably the 
 best in the series - which is saying a lot -- and while we can't help wishing the PC port could 
 have been shown just a little bit more love, it's the best PC game we've played this year.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shinian
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 2:40 pm PT
Review:  I have played San Andreas for about 100 hours (having 100% of accomplishied events isn't easy you 
 know) After finishing this game I can say one thing: it's superb! The Game play, Music (several 
 difrent radio stations) , story line (come back of good all friends, plots refering to Vice City) . 
 I would gladly gave this game a 10. Unfortuneatly the graphic is little too old. 
  Oh I would forgot. Second disadvantage of this product is that the plot line evolutes very slowly. 
 It took me ages to take some more advanced missions ( raising your self more than 1000$ during 
 first two hours is impossible- i couldn't afford myself even the simplest fire weapon) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-killaz
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2005 1:35 am PT
Review:  By now, you probably know how this works. The new Grand Theft Auto game comes out in October, but 
 only on the PlayStation 2. Xbox and PC owners have to wait a half a year or so for their versions 
 of the game, and each always has the potential to be better than the original release. That's saying 
 something, because we're already talking about one of the best games of 2004 and the best game 
 in the Grand Theft Auto series. Once again, the wait is over, and Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas 
 is now available on the PC and Xbox. While both versions have aspects that are better than the 
 outstanding PS2 game, visual weirdness on the Xbox and a handful of technical issues on the PC 
 prevent either version from being the clear-cut best of the bunch. 
  
  
  Representing the hood never felt so good. 
  For those of you already familiar with the game, 
 let's quickly discuss the differences between all three versions. The Xbox one has 480p support, 
 but when enabled, the aliasing is out of control. Portions of the environment look so unbelievably 
 jaggy that you'll wonder if your eyesight is failing you. At times it looks like you're playing 
 a 3D game without putting on the glasses. But if you can get past that (it isn't quite as noticeable 
 in standard resolution) , the game generally looks great. Loading times on the Xbox don't seem to 
 be much faster than the PlayStation 2 release, and for some weird reason, a loading message occasionally 
 appears onscreen, even in situations where the load times are supposed to be hidden, like when 
 changing your hairstyle. Control in the Xbox version is sharp, and just like the GTA Double Pack, 
 your vehicle gas and brake controls have been moved to the triggers and made analog. This works 
 well, but the flight controls, which have also been remapped to fit on the Xbox controller, are 
 a little weird. 
  
  The PC version comes on DVD only and is packaged with a fully bound book that serves as the manual. 
 It's definitely some of the coolest PC game packaging around. This version also has the potential 
 to be the best-looking version of the game by a long shot. Support for higher resolutions makes 
 the textures and characters look sharper and much better than either of the console versions. There's 
 a draw distance slider that, when turned all the way up, almost totally eliminates the draw-in 
 and fogging that's become synonymous with the series. Your Grove Street home looks much more like 
 a run-down South Central neighborhood when you can see more of its surroundings. But all this graphical 
 quality is offset by some serious problems with the sound. Testing on three different machines 
 that exceed the recommended system specs got us three results. On one machine, we didn't experience 
 any audio glitches. On another, the audio simply cut out a lot, leaving you to drive around with 
 only music to keep you company. It's tough to play when you can't hear your mission descriptions. 
 On the third machine, loading up a save game caused a loud grating noise -- which sounded like the 
 bike-riding audio mixed with a helicopter -- to scream out from the middle of the Grove. We had to 
 hop in a car and drive away from the area to make the noises stop. Also, the cutscenes occasionally 
 desynched from the audio, making the lip movement appear to be way off. 
  
  Control in the PC version is full of options. You can decide to hook up a dual analog gamepad so 
 that you can play it just like the console versions, or you can instead opt for mouse-and-keyboard 
 control. Either method works, though we had several cases where the game would simply stop responding 
 to any mouse input until we alt-tabbed out of the game, moved the mouse, and then jumped back in. 
 This isn't exactly the sort of thing you want to have happen in the middle of a shoot-out. Mouse 
 control also removes the lock-on aspect of the targeting, giving you easy access to manual targeting. 
 The refined control the mouse gives you seems like an unfair advantage at times, because it's very 
 easy to rack up one-shot kills by aiming for the head. If you have a smooth mouse hand, even the 
 roughest firefights are really basic... provided the mouse doesn't die on you. 
  
  
  The Xbox and PC versions have some aspects that are better than the PS2 version, but they also 
 have some that are worse. 
  Both versions have custom soundtrack support, though using it robs you of the great DJs that populate 
 the game's radio stations. You'll still hear a lot of the funnier ads on the custom station, though. 
 
  
  Overall, each version of the game has its share of differences and minor issues, but the core game 
 is fantastic, regardless of the platform you play it on. While the list of games that can list 
 GTA as an influence grows longer and longer, there's still nothing quite like the real thing, and 
 the "bigger, better" approach to sequel design definitely works in San Andreas' favor. 
  
  OK, all that information is fine and good if you've already played San Andreas. But if you're new 
 to the loc'ed-out streets of San Andreas, there's much more you need to know.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chillay
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2005 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Hey, this game is the greatest game eva made, is so good non other game can beat it, there are 
 heaps of missions and u can do all u want. you can get girlfriends u can even shoot ya girlfriend 
 after a date but its easy to shoot people coz of auto lock on! 
  you can steal cars and kill anyone.
  theres some mission where u burn pot and race the guy out 
 of GTA:3
  so it all forms togather
  u can even have it (u no) in the car.
  u can get money from doin almost everythin and go into the gym and work out, pick wat u wear, wat 
 your hair looks like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faam
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 25, 2005 9:08 am PT
Review:  the graphics are good if you put them all in exellent quality and in antialiasin everything seems 
 exxellent exept for thee vegetation the trees and those thing seems a little bad in 2D... 
  the sound is great. i didn't like very much the music, but you can quit it...
  
  at first it's 
 a little stressful because is difficult to aim with the gun and to drive a car but you can gain 
 experience and then it's very great... the story it's great to and the game it's veryyy long... 
 and when you finish the story you can alway do something, the city it's amazingly big... and you 
 can have a lot of job to win money you can gambling in a casino, you can be a truck driver a train 
 driver, a cop and a lot of more things...
  
  i love it... you have to buy it or download it because it's worth palying it...
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pavel_btn
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2005 4:45 pm PT
Review:  I awaited the arrival of this game on the PC for 6 months after the PS2 release, and it was so 
 damn worth the wait. WOW! What can I say, Rockstar must get a medal for this game. 
  Lets start by saying that the PC version is so much better than the PS2 one. The loading time is 
 so short its simply incredible. If you have a good/awesome graphics card - turn your resolution 
 right up and enjoy the ride! Make sure, and this is VERY IMPORTANT, to turn your Anti-Aliasing 
 to an optimum level - Make sure it is turned on at all costs. If you have a powerful graphics card 
 turn it up all the way! It makes the game look fantastic.
  The Music is a strong selling point of this game, and the variety of sounds leaves plenty of choice 
 for every taste. If you like Hip-Hop and RnB, you are especially in luck coz this game is Gangsta! 
 The voice acting is so amazing and so inspired, it is enjoyable to sit back and simply listen to 
 the dialogue.
  The gameplay is....................... Work of Art. I never enjoyed any other game's variety as 
 much as this game. It combines at least 10 genres! No kiddin, for example: 3rd person shooter, 
 role-play, driver, racing cars, racing bikes, tricks (cycles) , the sims (food, shape, muscle etc.) , 
 air combat, flight simulation and more. With so much variety you just get addicted, and so I did.
 
  In conclusion, This is the best game in the world, Best Game of 2004, Sold over 4 million copies 
 worldwide, went platinum in 1 month, definitely THE BEST in the series. If you haven't played it, 
 run out and get right now. Honestly, San Andreas is so good it is simply unfair to all other games.
 
  Thank you Rockstar Games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcthpro
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 24, 2005 1:29 am PT
Review:  I like This game it have never a End alway a thing to doe I hope full there gona get a game similary 
 to Grand Theft Auto But Online whit some Cool mods
  but I say This Game is Good It unique.. Getting a Car modify
  alot of Cloth possiblity to : have 
 a nice look on girl to make a nice impression
  Dating some girl to unlock new car
  Controlling come Quarter Or the wholeCity to Gain Some Backup & money
  having Alot of Gun Variety 
 * Alot of Car * Alot Of Different Say by people Everpeople have a different Talking & Re-Action 
 wich is Great for the AI
  But I fear that Saints Rows gona beat RockStars Ass there a video that show Graphic Way Higher 
 And there saying a Online Gaming to few mods And the modification is Way higher then in Gta San 
 andreas but Anyway we aint here for this so.. I am off and say to everbody to have a Try to Gta 
 san andreas and at Last Finish the game at 100%
  also computer verison whay better you can put infinit mods
  + new car + new gun+Cloth + anything 
 you want since you can be the modder
  your unique game.. bigger map so i say this game is a infinit sandbox whit fun
  and follow my 
 path :) go on pc and mod when you think there nothing else to 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pb12345
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 22, 2005 7:21 am PT
Review:  I'll try to make this brief. But there are many things to GTA SA. Basically if you liked the previous 
 GTA games, you'll love this one. 
  
  The game has been updated to be truly massive, now you finally feel that it is a real world. It 
 probably takes 15 min to fly from end to end and although the game opens up new areas gradually, 
 they'll be plenty of room for you from the start. It's roughly 16 times bigger than GTA 3 and 8 
 times bigger than VC.
  
  It is still GTA and it is nice that almost every department of the game has been expanded and improved. 
 What I can only describe as "The SIms" part of the game where you have to eat, keep fit, date, 
 whatever... works to an extent, although to make it less repetitive, you can eat like once a week 
 and nothing will happen to you. 
  
  The cars are better and there is more choice, I like the way the game slowly improves your handling 
 which is quite realistic and goes well with the plot. At first you'll be skidding all over the 
 place (maybe it's just me) , but at the end you'll have pin point precision over the cornering. 
 What is nice as well is that on motorways the AI drivers go very quickly, as opposed to previously 
 where you had to constantly dodge them. If you happen to bump into some, they will get mad and 
 start to chase you for a bit, sometimes leading to their own demise, but still nice touch of road 
 rage.
  
  One thing about the large landscape is that you'll spend a lot of time driving between places, 
 which is fun at first but gets a little tedious. Once you are allowed to fly it speeds things up. 
 There are a lot of planes and helicopters to chose from, including a harriet and James Bond style 
 hover thingy! My favourite is to go high up in a plane or helicopter and bail out with a parachute 
 or just buy a plane ticket and jump out. Unrealistically you can pull the chute out at the last 
 second, but still, wow.
  
  So far I have not even mentioned the gameplay. Well the plot may be crap, as you start from 'the 
 hood', you'll soon be doing random missions just like in previous titles. But they are far more 
 interesting and far fewer racing ones (which I did not like about VC, but if you did you'll be 
 pleased to know you can still race to your hearts desire) . You'll meet characters from GTA 3 (sorry 
 can't remember the name, think it's Tommy) and also get to go to the pizzeria you blew up in GTA 
 3, quite a nice touch.
  
  Evading the law enforcement should not be a problem really. It's not quite as fun as in Most Wanted, 
 but you'll know what to expect. Oh, one thing which disappointed me was that the tanks are quite 
 lame and you still can hide out in an alley with police being scared to go down them or something...
 
  
  Weapons are pretty much the same if not exactly the same. 
  
  Radio is not as great as in VC, which was mostly from Scarface, in fact the whole game was probably 
 a tribute to the film. Lazlow is still there, but I found the radio stations filled with crappy 
 rap a bit dull. Still there are laughs in the talk shows and you can put your own mp3s in.
  
  Bugs. Yes, bugs. Sadly there are some, I found some. Sometimes the weapons you possess are 
 not saved properly and you get ones you had replaced. Also sound is odd. Sometimes at start of 
 the game, there is only the radio, no SFX, but they come on 5 min into the game, quite bizzarre. 
 No major graphic glitches that I found, but it varies from computer to computer.
  
  Well about it I guess. PC version is far superior to the PS2 - graphics are nice with sunsets in 
 the desert and colour schemes changing depending where you are. And ofcourse you have mouse control. 
 There are many things I have not mentioned, driving schools, plot twists, swimming, whatever, you 
 have to play this game if not buy it. And remember peace and love : ) ... Out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kudos2000
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 22, 2005 3:40 am PT
Review:  Well another GTA game has been released and for some time now, especially if you think that it 
 has been on the PS2 for even longer, but lets not go down that road.
  
  What can you say about GTA: SA, it is a brilliant game losing none of the charm that the other 2 
 3D GTA's had and adding more to it. To start you realise that the area in which you are in is huge, 
 at least 3 times larger than any of the other games. Secondly you would think with such a large 
 area that the game could get repetitious and boring, but this is untrue. The game has many unique 
 scenes, great areas to explore and countless vehicles.
  
  Another feature which I must admit that I like is the pile ups, by just stopping sharply on a busy 
 and fast highway you can cause a large and noisy pile up. Now although this feature is great I 
 do not like the road rage factor, it seems that almost every driver you hit or even tap, they get 
 angry and chase after you, smacking you car around when youre in the middle of a mission, extremely 
 annoying!
  
  The missions again are great and plentiful. Oh course in each one a hint of comedy is included. 
 Now one of the best features of the game I have not included, your character is now more customizable 
 and a lot more creative. You can improve your driving, cycling, fitness, strength, stamina, respect 
 and these are just to name a few. You can dress and look how you want and its easy to do.
  
  Now the game has moved over to the PC the graphics and sounds have improved. The graphics look 
 crisp and smooth and work well on even older machines and on high spec ones (like mine) the graphics 
 can be improved to look fantastic for such huge areas. 
  
  One thing I did note was that my sound did not work well. Its not as if I had an unusual card, 
 I had a Creative Soundblaster Audigy 2, a card that a lot of people have. To fix this I didnt 
 have to go far although officially there was no fix. On a forum I found out that I had to download 
 an older version of the EAX. DLL file and then change my speaker configuration from 5.1 to quad.
 
  
  Apart from the sound though this game had me hooked, it was annoying that I could not fly at the 
 beginning and had to train up, I was able to fly fine in Vice City why do I now have to wait so 
 long!!
  
  If you are a fan of any GTA game then play this one, its a great game and you get huge amounts 
 for your money. Definitely one of the top games of the year.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Makoto22
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 20, 2005 10:49 am PT
Review:  Es el mejor y unico juego de su genero.
  En cuanto a graficos, no se lexige mucho ya que compensa con sus animaciones extraordinarias.
 
  En sonido megusta mucho la opcion de "User Songs" ya que puedes escuchar tu musica favorita (estilo 
 emisora)
  mientras juegas GTA. En cuanto a las emisoras restantes lo que digo es que son geniales ya que 
 interactuan con la trama
  y el desarrollo del juego mismo, por ejemplo en el caso de "OG Loc".
  La jugabilidad es extraordinaria 
 ya que incluso con persecuciones de 6 estrellas, se puede evadir la ley.
  El paqute "Hot Cofee" lo hace ms completo ya que el juego esta dirigido a un publico adulto y 
 lo hace mas realista
  e interactivo.
  Ademas contiene modos de juego como "Crazy taxi", "Need for speed", Policia, Triatlon, etc.
  
 
  Como lo dije antes es el multi juego. Todo en 1.
  
  THE BLACKSWORDSMAN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NicAgent
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 4, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  GTA San Andreas, though already having been out on PS2 since 10/04, still is a great addition to 
 have for a PC port. Some people like me don't own a PS2 or Xbox, and as long as you meet at least 
 some of the recommended requirements you should have an absolute blast with this game.
  
  Framerate issues may be quite noticable when you first have the game installed, although as the 
 computer plays the game a lot the problems should cease and the graphics on the most part are spectacular. 
 Glitches are nowhere to be found.
  
  Even beyond the hundreds of missions, there is so much you can do and explore, and it may be many 
 months before you become too tired of the same old scenery of San Andreas. Basically any type of 
 vehicle imaginable can be yours, including far more than just cars; airplanes, helicopters, boats 
 and even hovercraft are available.
  
  And about Hot Coffee, yes it did cause the game to lose lots of momentum, but this version (2.0) , 
 has it completely fixed and the game has made a full return to store shelves. If you see a copy, 
 don't hesitate in picking it up; you'll be crying if you see it gone when you come back to it later!
 
  
  However, what I wished was done about this game is realism. On most roads in the game, cars either 
 go too slow or too fast, and accidents are frequent. Also, police chases are not ideal, as they 
 do not do a legitimate job of chasing you (i. e. they just come at you rather than chase you, and 
 they themselves crash too much) . Also, police can do little than just shoot at you, and there is 
 no such thing as fighting with them. I also wanted the graphics to be better, because of the fact 
 that most of the characters have very bland looks, even with the highest graphical settings. The 
 sound is flawless with the exception of when its raining, and then it becomes crappy. But still 
 nonetheless, a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morbitallity
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2005 9:40 am PT
Review:  As all of you know San Andreas was already brought out for the PS2 earlier.
  That was a major succes.
  Later brought out for the PC and XBox.
  But it's almost the same, 
 when they actually could've changed allot.
  The graphics could've been MUCH better and the controles aren't that good on the PC.
  Besides 
 that you can have your own mp3 radio station and some little changes to the graphics for the PC 
 version, nothing really changes the game.
  If you own a PS2 ore Xbox, i should buy GTA: SA for your console.
  Cause GTA is just a console 
 game.
  
  Even there has'nt been much changed, it still is a great game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 18, 2005 12:55 pm PT
Review:  In 2005, Xbox owners and PC gamers were finally admitted admittance to the controversial Grand 
 Theft Auto: San Andreas. San Andreas takes place in the fictional California-like state of, well, 
 San Andreas. Included are three full cities and plenty of countryside and several small towns all 
 in between. You'll start out in Los Santos, which represents Los Angeles, move next to San Fierro 
 (which is strikingly similar to San Francisco) , and finally you'll get access to Las Venturas (Vegas!) . 
 Throughout all of these, you'll suffer no loading times when outdoors, and only very short ones 
 when going indoors or putting on new clothing.
  
  GTA: San Andreas takes place in 1992, the heyday of gangsta rap. You'll be playing as Carl Johnson, 
 a young thug who's spent the last five years up in Liberty City on the East Coast. He originally 
 left his family and the Grove Street gang because his younger brother was killed in a shooting. 
 Now, five years later, he's back to bury his mother. CJ's goals are to find out who killed his 
 mom and to build up the Grove Street Families once again. He's got plenty of opposition right out 
 of the gate, though, starting with his angry, cynical brother nicknamed Sweet.
  
  That's not CJ's only problem, though. A corrupt pair of cops frames him for the murder of another 
 cop with the intent not to arrest him, but to get CJ to do their bidding. His own best pals, Big 
 Smoke and Ryder, also don't really trust CJ anymore, and his sister's relationship with a Latino 
 is causing trouble between the gangs of Los Santos. Through all this, CJ must rebuild the respect 
 he lost when he left and stop Grove Street from becoming merely a blip on the Los Santos map.
 
  
  Similar to previous GTA games, this one is chock full of stuff to do. Sure, there is the huge branching 
 storyline and hours worth of incredible voice acting, but there are also dozens and dozens of other 
 things you can do to waste away the time. Almost anything you could do in the last two games are 
 in here, along with tons of new stuff. To even try and list them all out would be futile, but suffice 
 it to say that they pretty much all fit in with the gameplay and style of the series.
  
  All the controversy aside, San Andreas is quite possibly the best game ever made. The Xbox and 
 PC versions have extended the shelf life of the game and thanks to last summer's "Hot Coffee" debacle, 
 the game is still in the public's consciousness. Few games have ever had such a cultural impact 
 as this series has and love it or hate it, you must respect it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redcat1984
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 18, 2005 3:55 am PT
Review:  GTA: San Andreas gives us the best of the best off all the past GTA's. this time you can swim yes 
 a great evolution from past gta games you now can exercice your body to look like an real muscle 
 animal and beating machine!!
  but you have to eat to maintain the phisic that you contructed. also you now learn new moves in 
 the gims that you enter from street fight to kung fu fighting styles. but don't worry the game 
 as mutch more to offer and this is only a little part of the game can do. now all the freeways 
 to the cities once unlocked do not have loading times!!! that a another great thing and evolution 
 in the game. now the missions aren't so linear and you have some missions out from the x-files 
 series lol. the cars in the game are great an have their sounds in the right places the bikes are 
 great and now you have bikes and do some wicked tricks on them, boats, plains, helicopters, hovercrafts, 
 etc. this time they done it right. as for the cities they all look great as for the game play it's 
 really good!! a must have in your collection!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s1lentHomer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 17, 2005 2:53 pm PT
Review:  I been a fan of GTA forever now. I still remember when I played GTA for the first time in 2D. It 
 wasn't perfect but it was still great. Now GTA SA is great. There is so many mission to do or just 
 drive around doing drive-by and shooting down the army's jet with my own. You can play for hours 
 and hours just driving the car around the town. When I first played this game I had played so much 
 in one day I even had a dream about it. Even though I finished long time ago I still have fun with 
 new mods and such. The missions in the game is not difficult and it is easy to learn. The graphic 
 is not perfect but still play-able. Also the sound is so amazing, you can hear the people on the 
 sidewalk curse at you when you almost run them over. This game is the greatest and when you play 
 you will agree with me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Larrymon2000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 17, 2005 11:34 am PT
Review:  I was not originally a big fan of the GTA series. That, however, changed completely when I started 
 to play San Andreas.
  
  With an incredibly immersive world, countless features and mini-games (Yes, even the sex one) and 
 interaction with almost everything around the player, this game has earned the spot as one of my 
 favorite games of all time. With a great soundtrack, a ridiculously addictive storyline and voice 
 acting that captures the essence of the characters, this game is a must-have for any action game 
 fan. Though there are a few bugs in the PC version, those are easily overlooked by the game's impeccable 
 design. The missions are also very challenging at times.
  
  The one thing that bugs me, though, is the fact that you have to get all the way back to the starting 
 position of a mission if you fail it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartyVice30
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 15, 2005 4:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is an absolute masterpiece. But rockstar can do better on the graphics but they are still 
 pretty good. This game is really good value ive played this game for more than 100 hours and it 
 is by far my favorite game. It has an excellent storyline which keeps you immersed in it. and it 
 is a long game to and if you want 100% it takes ages but it is fun. There is so much detail that 
 goes into this game, there are even things in the game that you are not meant to see or would rarely 
 see in the game. Like for example one day i was just walking in downtown Los Santos (the first 
 city) and I could hear a plane sputtering and then I could hear the engine dyeing and I looked 
 up and a plane was coming full speed at me with flames and smoke flying out of it. I tried to run 
 out of its path but I was to late and it ran right into me and I died. I wasnt really mad but amazed 
 that something like that could happen. Overall I think this is a great game and definately worth 
 the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neerajkumar_4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2006 2:08 am PT
Review:  GTA: San Andreas 
  
  By, scorpio_gamer a. k. a Neerajkumar_4
  
  Introduction:-
  
  This game is similar to other GTA parts but just another better version. no far better version 
 of all of them excluding the HOT COFFEE mode. But still lacks behind in the Graphics department, 
 which I feel are a bit cartoonish.
  
  Gameplay: - 10\10
  
  First of all the game has a SUPERB storyline!!!
  This game has almost everything you can think 
 of
  You can go to gym, do parachute jumps, fly different kinds of planes (even jets) and helicopters, 
 drive different cars, ride different kinds of bikes and cycles, eat pizzas, do a haircut, apply 
 a tattoo, go on a looooong drive, collect oysters and horseshoes (50 each) , go sightseeing and 
 take all snapshots (50) , lots of side missions to do, date Girl friends, visit prostitutes & strip 
 clubs (just as in GTA: VC) ,buy your favorite clothes, go to disco and dance, tons of properties 
 to be bought, earn thousands of money, play the fabulous storyline missions ( a huge variety of 
 missions) and all kinds of races with the coolest cars and bikes and planes .. there is lots 
 and lots and lots more things you can do but I think its better you play the game and check it 
 out and have fun.
  The accidents are frequent on the high ways especially.
  In this game youll be know as CJ (Carl Johnson) , he is our protagonist and you are the gang member 
 of The Grove Street Families you got to do lots of Gang wars and take over all the territories, 
 and you can recruit gang members depending on your respect.
  
  It has different skills such as Driving, flying, cycling, gambling and weapon stats. Then you have 
 stuff like lung capacity, muscle, fat, stamina, respect, sex appeal to take care of during your 
 long game of San Andreas.
  Cars can be modified (you can add NITROUS also) . You can listen to your favorite songs just as in 
 GTA: VC by using the user tracks.
  
  So over all, its an amazing game to be played and pretty long too. Its a must buy game..!! 
 
  
  The HOT-COFFEE problem:-
  I dont suggest any to play the uncensored version which has the hot coffee. I wonder why they 
 created such a part in a classic game. The Rockstar faced dozens of problem due this mode.
  
  Graphics: - 8\10
  
  The game graphics are just better, no very BIG improvement from the 
 previous one. The environment looks cool (the sceneries and other stuff) . You can take screenshots 
 by using your camera. The landscapes feel very realistic; from the three large cities and some 
 small towns to the wide country and the rural areas. The change in weather makes them even more 
 fascinating. 
  
  Sound: - 8\10
  Ok sounds are a pretty decent one. But I feel the radio stations boring, its better to have your 
 own station (USER TRACKS) . The thunders, the planes, the bikes, the guns sound really good.
  The story line & the Gameplay covers the flaws in the graphics and sound.
  
  My Wish List for 
 the Next GTA-
  
  1. Smater Cops
  2. Existence of Animals (so that we can go hunting)
  3. Replayability (I mean some kind of mode so that we can play any mission after we reach 100%)
 
  4. Improvement in graphics
  5. Usage of taxis and trams to roam about the city.
  6. Bikes with nitrous.
  .. etc.
  
  Conclusion:-
  
  There is a huge list for 
 improving the game but I guess the ROCKSTAR knows it well, so well leave it up to them.
  Actually there are still lots more to tell about this game but I cant just describe everything 
 in words, so I suggest you play the game and have loads of never-ending fun.
  
  Graphics -8/10
  
  Sound-8/10
  
  Gameplay-10/10
  
  Story-Line-10/10
  
  Over all-9/10
 
  
  
  Scorpio_gamer:- Remember there is NO such thing as GAME OVER!!
  So keep GAMING.!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tamirganbaatar
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 11, 2005 12:32 am PT
Review:  In this game you are a dude called Carl Johnson ( CJ) . And its your choice to make yourself fat 
 or slim or muscular. You can have girlfriends and take them out to meal. The time you will play 
 this game is long enough to call it a good game. There are lots of things that are not for little 
 children, so watch out who you play this game with. You can't play this game, if you have a youngster 
 standing next to you.
  
  Some missions you do is quite hard, but mainly its ok. If its too hard, you can use some cheats, 
 but be careful because the game records how many times you cheat.
  
  Other than developing yourself physically, you can develop your flying, driving and swimming skills. 
 For swimming, if you swim longer underwater, your lung capacity will improve.
  
  That's the main things about this game. njoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guildsander
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 10, 2005 11:55 am PT
Review:  This game is so freaking good. I like to run around the state and waste more and more people. sometimes 
 i will go on a train and i will let the cops chase me across the state, NOW THATS FUN!!!!!
  
  My favourite weapon is the minigun because it is so strong. The shot gun is good too. 
  
 
  I like to go in the casinos so i can win lots of many. Also i like to go on dates with Carls girl 
 friends. My favourite is Michelle.
  
  I really like to go on motorbike races were i always win. I like fast rides.
  
  If you see 
 this game in the store buy it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Butters86
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 9, 2005 8:36 am PT
Review:  What can you expect from Rockstar Games? We got great games like Max Payne and GTA Vice City, but 
 what do we have in GTA San Andreas?
  
  The graphics may not be the best ones, but the gameplay is what matters. The maps are huge, countless 
 of missions and hundreds of minigames that can be done in there.
  
  With the integration of RPG-like status like health and stamina makes the game a bit harder and 
 put you in pro and cons situations.
  
  The animations are the most realistics ever seen in a videogame. The characters move like real 
 people (developers must have used motion sensor devices to animate characters) .
  
  Overall, this is a-must-buy game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nwnoodle
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 7, 2005 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Despite what the Clintons and the right wing wackos may want you to think, this is a great game. 
 When are politicans going to realize video games are what they are, games-nothing more? 
  Sure, this has all the elements that raise a parents' concern over violent video games and truth 
 be told they should be concerned. This is not a kids' game. Don't allow your young children to 
 play it, and don't buy it for them. But for me, hey-I'm in my thirties and I dug it. It's got action, 
 storylines, humor and involvement that most games lack these days. Take it for what it is, a game.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yab_007
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 7, 2005 3:50 am PT
Review:  GTA san andreas is perhaps one of my favourite games. it has everything and even more. for the 
 first time rockstar included bicycles and a greater level of mission. With all what i have seen 
 during playtime on san andreas, i felt that i was really playing in the place of carl johnson (our 
 hero) . the game has an intense gameplay and anyone would like it. It has of course a certain level 
 of gore but this just add a little spice to it. not only that there are bicycles, there is the 
 possibility to swim and i must say that this helped a lot as whenever i just cannot escape the 
 police, i go for a dive. even more we have the physical appearence of carl himself. you have to 
 eat to survive but beware too much food means that you are going to become fat and when you become 
 fat your running speed is decreased and your popularity decreases. but don't worry to get rid of 
 fats, you can do exercise like riddiing a lot on bicycle or even better you can do some body building 
 (weight lifting , running, cycling) and you can also learn some new fighting skills. with all these 
 you will have a lot to keep you busy in the game and the best is that you can hire some gang member 
 and go to fight with other gang and conquer their teritory. its not over yet, the sexiest part 
 is that you have girlfriends that you can take out for a ride or for a dinner and guess what... 
 you can f*** them when you drop them home. i heard that there was patch for the hot coffee but 
 i never found it... this game is rated mature i think... so don't let the adults see you playing 
 the dirty missions...
  have fun...
  i highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vegeta010
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2005 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas Is My Favorite Video Game I Have Ever Played!!!! I Really Recommend 
 This Game It To Everyone Who Likes To Play Adventure Games!!!! There Is So Many Places You Can 
 Go To Kill People!!! Its Like A Real World!! Just That, n The Real World No One Would Let Someone 
 Like That Kill Everyone. But Still, This Is A Really Great Game!!! I Really Liked It!! So I Recommend 
 It To Everyone Who Would Like Adventure, Action, Bloody, Violent, Sexual Content, Gun Type Games!!! 
 So Try It Out!!! If You Want Cheat Codes Or Something Else For The Game You Can Contact Me At One 
 Of These E-Mails:
  
  Primary E-Mail: Num.1_TripleH_Fan@inbox. com
  Secondary E-Mail: DragonballZVegeta@inbox. com
  MSN Hotmail E-Mail: nickrt2001@hotmail. com
  
 Gamespot ID: Vegeta010
  
  So, If You Have Any Questions About Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas Or Anything Else E-Mail Me At 
 Any Of The E-Mails Above, Ok? C Ya!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 5, 2005 4:31 am PT
Review:  i really loved the game
  but i think he is really easy...
  their are i think like 10 mission that its hard
  but i passed allmost all missions without lose
 
  but its a cool game and still fun to play
  and its not getting boring cus u can all the time drive
  or kill peoples or steal boats LOL.
 
  i really loved the game
  but i think he is really easy...
  their are i think like 10 mission that its hard
  but i passed allmost all missions without lose
 
  but its a cool game and still fun to play
  and its not getting boring cus u can all the time drive
  or kill peoples or steal boats LOL.
 
  i really loved the game
  but i think he is really easy...
  their are i think like 10 mission that its hard
  but i passed allmost all missions without lose
 
  but its a cool game and still fun to play
  and its not getting boring cus u can all the time drive
  or kill peoples or steal boats LOL.
 
  i really loved the game
  but i think he is really easy...
  their are i think like 10 mission that its hard
  but i passed allmost all missions without lose
 
  but its a cool game and still fun to play
  and its not getting boring cus u can all the time drive
  or kill peoples or steal boats LOL.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grobas
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 3, 2005 4:47 pm PT
Review:  I play this game more then enyfing else and i can sai ps or xbox sux dont vory ivyng to play that. 
 pc version is with coliest grafiex ever. so if you want to try somthing thats is not one day play 
 on **** ps you should try pc version of gta its most of importing that its have real life arguments 
 what some game dont have grafix its nice on myne 526 gf. only - of the game that is to short : ( 
 misions is intresting but i can make the game in two days playng not much. so its tu easy :S but 
 i waiting fot the next one and i hope it come:) and please make much more care deateils for me 
 its first place than playng the game: P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljames1961
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 30, 2005 8:24 am PT
Review:  I personally found the graphics, storyline, gameplay and depth the best in the series so far!
  the pc version does have some definite bugs in the technical video settings, that result in extreme 
 slowdown in frame rate as well as ocasional game freezes!
  But once you get past the technical glitches by finding the right video settings for your system, there 
 is no doubt that GTA San Andreas is the best shooter out there, bar none!
  The game is still 1 of the best stress relievers you can find, even when you tire of the missions 
 ,you can still just go on intense shooting and explosion rampages and feel great afterwards! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rokin1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 3:55 am PT
Review:  After a lot of waiting, Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas has been released to PC. Follower of mega-ultra 
 popular Vice City came in full it's glory and wiped out all competition (what competition?) . Amazing 
 gameplay, excellent soundtrack, fascinating story, solid graphics, 
  
  OK, OK, let's go from the beginning.
  After release of GTA3 people wanted more. They wanted more 
 killing, more carjacking, more pursuits And they've got it! Soon, Vice City came out. We've got 
 new vehicles, more guns, a lot of new things to do, but gameplay hasn't changed much.
  Then, the San Andreas was released. But for PS2 only! Mph Just after half a year PC owners have 
 a chance of prettifying their computer with one of the most anticipated games of the year.
  
  -----
  - 'sup
  - Carl, it's Sweet
  - Whassup, Sweet, what you want?
  - It's moms She's 
 dead, bro.
  -----
  
  Carl ''CJ'' Johnson is coming back home to San Andreas after five years spent in Liberty City. 
 But just as he enters a town, he gets stopped by his old pals, officers Tenpenny and Pulaski. The 
 thing is that those two aren't really the most honest cops in the state, so poor CJ gets left without 
 most of his personal possessions. After a friendly chat, officers left CJ in Ballas territory. 
 It would all be good, if the Ballas weren't CJ's mortal enemies.
  
  This small intro movie is trying to introduce us to situation on streets of Los Santos, one of 
 three cities in the state of San Andreas. Although the game is placed in early 90's, during the 
 first few missions it looks like San Andreas isn't much different than Vice City, but during the 
 game you'll realize how much GTA: San Andreas has advanced than earlier games.
  
  But, as I was saying; the state of San Andreas consists of three major cities: Los Santos, San 
 Fierro and Las Venturas. Each one of these cities by name and thematic reminds us on some of real 
 cities; Los Angeles for Los Santos, San Francisco for San Fierro and Las Vegas for Las Venturas. 
 So you will, for instance, in Los Santos lead your own gang, while in San Fierro you could drive 
 insanely fast races along the town, or you could have a great time in Las Venturas visiting casinos 
 and strip clubs (well, the game IS rated 17+) . You will open each city gradually, completing missions 
 and revealing storyline, which is very good developed. Talking about missions, GTA: SA consists 
 of almost hundred (that's 100!) missions which are very original. Original missions, it is true, 
 have always been specialty of GTA franchise.
  
  Another thing that increases value of this game are mini-missions, on which you will spend a lot 
 of hard work if you want to complete the game 100%. So you will, for instance, be collecting horseshoes 
 and oysters (instead of hidden packages) , you can spray graffiti on walls of Los Santos or just 
 perform good ol' sub-missions. One of (many) new mini games is gang war. Let me explain that;
 
  Los Santos consists of territories; gang areas controlled by specific gangs. As CJ you can gather 
 your gang and take over territories which are under control of enemy gang. It's interesting how 
 Rockstar made it simple. If you enter enemy gang's territory and start shooting their gang members, 
 you will start a gang war. Then you need to survive three waves of attacking enemies to make the 
 territory yours. Gang wars are definitely one of the most amusing parts of the game.
  
  But, like that's not enough, Rockstar put in some other stuff to make the game more fun. Remember 
 how we could change into specific clothes in Vice City? GTA San Andreas brings that to a whole 
 new level. In the game we can buy over 200 parts of clothing in six different types of stores. 
 Clothes affect CJ's sex appeal and respect. Respect is a very important aspect of this game. You 
 get respect by completing missions and/or killing members of enemy gangs. The more respect you 
 have, the more gang members you can have in your gang. And sex appeal? Sex appeal increases chances 
 of CJ getting a girlfriend (s) . That's right! CJ can have girlfriends. There are six girls in San 
 Andreas that you can take for a date or well, something else.
  
  Also, Cj needs to eat. Food gets new meaning in the game. If Cj doesn't eat, his health will start 
 decreasing, which isn't good. But, also don't eat too much, cause then CJ will get fat, so his 
 stamina won't be big. There are other things we can do in the game, like modding cars (where is 
 NFS Underground now, eh?) , tattooing, riding bicycles, jumping off buildings with (or without) 
 parachute, and even swimming. It's amazing how much Rockstar payed attention on details.
  
  Graphics, to tell the truth, was never really a better side of Grand Theft Auto serial, so it isn't 
 something special even here, but it doesn't bothers. Frankly, I can't picture game like this with 
 graphics of Far Cry or Doom 3.
  
  But GTA: San Andreas has some bad sides, too. AI, for instance is awful, especially in gang wars. 
 Sometimes people in the game act simply inexplicably. Also, while I was playing it I noticed there 
 were no adrenaline pickups. Which is really too bad, since going nuts and punching a person who 
 will then fly away 30 feet in slow motion was really fun. Then, the number of rampages is decreased 
 (to only 3 or 4) . But that are all small things.
  
  Finally, sound - definitely the best part of GTA: SA! Soundtrack of the game is simply perfect. 
 On about ten radio stations we can hear true sound of 90's. Voice acting is also great. We can 
 hear Samuel L. Jackson, James Woods, Chris Penn, Ice T, all in their best. And dialogs are good 
 and well developed.
  
  Conclusion. Well, there isn't much to conclude. One of the most anticipated games of the year is 
 actually one of the best gaming titles EVER. I hope that says enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eee_master
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2005 12:16 pm PT
Review:  In The debvate over violent Video games I have never heard the side of the arguement of those who 
 are in the 24-35 Demographic (I am 25) .
  
  I have been playing GTA 2 to San Andreas Since College to Relieve My Stress from school and Work 
 and even now working in an office I can't help but use this game to ease My Stress.
  
  There is nothing better than a gam where you can do whatver you want, gun down whoever you want, 
 hear your character give one liners randonly and perform missions .
  
  What u Love most about this game is how big it is. You have 3 citites to o through plus its boonies 
 which are so much fun to roam in. Nothing bad can be said about this game. I do beleive though 
 this game IS NOT FOR KIDS! I too believe this game should not e played by minors who's minds are 
 like sponges and will absorb anything that is fed to them.
  
  the only part I hated were the flying missions. They are the Biggest Pain in the Butt ever!!! I 
 spent a good 2 weeks on those of daily game play. 
  
  However, if you meet the rating M for this then BUY IT! Great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ac_slater11
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 12:24 pm PT
Review:  To all of the people who have said this game is an abomination, etc... you are stupid. You knew 
 what the game was all about so take some responsibility and stop blaming yours and the world's 
 problems on Rockstar. No, I do not believe children should be playing this game... time for some 
 parents to start doing something other than blaming the world for their jacked up kids. But as 
 for playability and entertainment... this game rips it up. The options that are available to you 
 are incredible, and the fun factor is definitely up there. My only problem with the game is some 
 of the sounds do not seem to work well with my computer. But, I willing to accept a few minor issues 
 while playing a game as cool as this. As a parting thought I'd like to say, if you are a parent 
 that doesn't feel their kids should play this game... don't let them. If you are adult enough to 
 have sex and create children you are adult enough to take some responsibility if your kids play 
 this game and then go around shooting people because they saw the characters in the game doing 
 it. Time to wake up and do some parenting!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vamptech
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 28, 2005 4:51 am PT
Review:  Rockstar does it again. Im a longtime fan of the series, and this game is just another notch in 
 the "i cant believe they said that" rod. Wonderful sandbox style play so you really never get bored 
 with the lack of action. Graphics are wonderfully 80s. While not as immersive as VC, i just couldnt 
 stop playing it. Radio was top notch and as always Rockstar out did themselves with the voice acting. 
 there were many time i found my self parked somewhere in the city just listening to the talk radio 
 and laughing. I just couldnt get enough of the commercials either. Simply wonderful writing on their 
 part. The only qualm i had, as in the previous GTAs, was the lack of NPC interaction. They did give 
 it a try this go round but only being able to respond negatively or positively to the VERY few 
 comments tossed your way severlly limited the enjoyment of this otherwise excellent game. Characters 
 were exactlly that, characters. there are many names and faces i may never forget in this game. 
 Graphics were clean and sound was appropriate. Another Rockstar gotta have.:)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mooch_basic
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 27, 2005 11:27 am PT
Review:  I bought this game for the PC with the intention of using a gamepad to control it. It's near impossible 
 to play using the keyboard and mouse. I have 2 gamepads, a Logitech and a Thrustmaster and neither 
 one would allow the right joystick to operate. I spent a week, every night, on the phone with their 
 customer support people. After speaking with 2 different people they finally promised to send the 
 question to their tech people. For 5 days, calling every night, I never got an answer from their 
 tech people and was finally told that they did not support the use of gamepads even though it's 
 an advertised feature on the game. Rockstar sucks as far as customer support goes. The game also 
 runs extremely slow on the PC and my PC is well within the recommended requirements. Rockstar needs 
 to get their act together and stop producing crap games without support.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpjccc
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 26, 2005 6:59 am PT
Review:  After GTA III and Vice City, I thought maybe I would burn myself out with San Andreas, but boy 
 was I wrong. San Andreas is excellent. The new features and gameplay that include, graffiti tags, 
 chop shops, clothes stores (which actually might be my least favorite thing) , girlfriends, and 
 gang memeber recruitment amke me feel like a real g (okay maybe not a REAL G, but it is still awesome) . 
 My only regret is not buying it before they took away the hot coffee mod. I am playing version 
 2 and as a n adult who would like to be able to decide what is censored for me, I am disappointed 
 that restrictions were posted on this game and a new version was created because folks at walmart 
 and best buy pulled the game. Oh well, it is still great, and the rant was just something I needed 
 to do. Anyway definitely get this game, you'll enjoy it! Oh and the gangster rap soundtracks are 
 bump'in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chickensqueeks
Rating: 3.9
Date: Nov 26, 2005 1:49 am PT
Review:  well i finally got gta sa and i heard alot of good things about it lucky i only borrowed it and 
 did not waste my money. gta sa starts off with u coming back to ur neighborhood and ur mom has 
 been murdered and you have been framed as the suspect. graphics? poor cheap crap that really brought 
 this game down. gameplay? needs improvment but not horriable. sound? really crappy the difference 
 between an pistol and a sub machine gun is the machine gun sounds like a pistol but fires at a 
 more rapid pace. story? boring waste of time not worthy of my time to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stamate
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2005 5:55 pm PT
Review:  cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
 cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: headnigga
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2005 7:41 am PT
Review:  GTA is the best game you can jack cars, recruit gang members, and have like 5 girlfriends. You 
 have to kill one of your homies Big Smoke. You come back to find that someone killed your moms 
 and brother gets busted and gos to jail. Its full of corrupt officers who want you dead, and your 
 enemy gang who wants you dead the Ballas. Carl Johnson takez over territory from over half of Los 
 santos. This game is so fat you should buy it. You do tons of missions to raise your running respect. 
 If you treat your girls right you get them in bed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waikit25
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 22, 2005 7:00 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks. Errr....... Graphically, this game may not be the best in the gaming industry. 
 The graphics may be a bit outdated, but the game play is awesome. Lot of levels and minigames including 
 hot coffee. This game had me playing for over 50 hours now. My favourite part of the game is the 
 mission cutscenes because the dialogues are really super. It had me laughing everytime. Too bad 
 you cant view the cutscenes again once you completed the level. The radio stations also improved 
 a lot since vice city. I had completed this game just a few days ago and are going to start the 
 second round again soon. Its that good. Trust me!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! hehehehehe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yoyito06
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 21, 2005 7:44 pm PT
Review:  No es por buscar algo mas realista o algo asi, pero sera mas atractivo ver nios y animales en 
 las escenas... Ver cosas como que te ataquen los perros o nios inocentes y malos que esten tirando 
 piedras y cosas asi... hasta poder jugar misiones con ellos, no veo por que no se pueda hacer.
 
  Lo otro que tambien sera interesante, y he escuchado ideas sobre ello, es que se podran elegir 
 con que sujeto se quiere jugar y hacer misiones diferentes a las que se haran eligiendo otro individuo.
 
  El juego est muy bueno, pero no he visto muchas diferencias entre unos y otros. Deberan intentar 
 con algo diferente. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muhammadsaad44
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2005 10:17 am PT
Review:  The game looks good to me although i thought it was slightly better new addition to the game like 
 eating ,exercise, accesories looks impressive .The thing i miss is upgrading of cars in enhanced 
 manner ,and also the thing I miss the most is ingame mission save , there should be atleast two 
 check points in the mission .The graphics of the game is not so good and I am expecting that they 
 would overcome in the next title .The missions of the game is really hard and could'nt be clear 
 with out cheats .The Developers should work on some of the areas of the game
  as follows
  1- Car upgrading system like engine ,body kit ,suspension etc.
  2- Improved accuracy level 
 
  3- Improved marshial arts
  4- Trading or smuggling like some thing
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: R-Dogg
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2005 5:23 pm PT
Review:  we all know that San Andreas got bumped up to an A rated game because of a sex scene mini game. 
 If you havent seen any footage well your not missing much. the sceen is graphicly poor and u could 
 only like it if you like barby dolls and pixilated boobs. its not that horny and kinda stupid. 
 i dont see why the ESRB made it A. there are many other games out like: "Playboy Mansion" and "The 
 Guy Game" tha entirely focus on men jacking off. why did they bump GTA up??? its because ESRB has 
 been after them forever and frankly... they just have a hatered. ESRB and many other organizations 
 target the games because they feel GTA is the only and target them as a scapegoat for all the trouble 
 their kids get into because they cant take the responsibility themselves. organizations that dont 
 like GTA always make the point that it makes kids violent. well it all depends on that indivual 
 person and their backround... if their parents niglect them or the kids feel bad while play ing 
 the games they will end up doing something harmful if a kid with loving parents and good friends 
 plays these games nothing bad will happen. all my frends with these games have never killed and 
 probably never will. over all u can see that ESRB didnt really look at the scene for what crap 
 it was. if u think its bad well, its not so let ur kids get the game because "Hot Coffee" isnt 
 even in the game... it must be downloaded and was made by some hacker who found out a program that 
 can create a bad scene. "hot coffee" isnt from rockstar so dont blame them 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dexdi1
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 17, 2005 6:01 pm PT
Review:  O. K the grand theft auto San Andreas has everything because this game show as the real life i dont 
 know but is the true in this game we can be the leader of the gang band seriousli sweet doesnt 
 do anything we must to charge the band first we must to present to the comunity of LA how?.
  
  we must to kill any **** in the rode because we will got respect and we can carry on somebody 
 of our gang that hapens in some moment in the game but this is very important for the finnal mission 
 the best of this game is that we can go anywhere in the cities is the thing that anybody loves 
 we can go killing and get some fun without metter that is the top but there are something that 
 i dont like in the game are many ilogical things we shot with the bazooka and later a ambulance 
 come and revive the person sometimes not ever and they you go thats my little review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: britneyyy
Rating: 3.6
Date: Nov 17, 2005 9:57 am PT
Review:  this is not mistake this is horror catastrophe of gaming industry , this is not the game this is 
 brain washing of our kids to be criminals and put them in the detention camps.
  People must observe what kids are playing .
  Cause of this game there should be organization 
 not like fraud UN.
  But real UN like organization to NUKE !!!!! the company or state who can deliver this to kids. 
 It is too smal punishment.
  And what i found surprizingly bothering is that all reviewers like this game.
  Game has not idea 
 
  GTA first part is ok idea and game not 3D but ok but Grand Thief is not good example for name of 
 game cause in GTA III and san andreas, which is the same, is not the point of stealing car than 
 killing and brutally torturing people like anyone on the street .
  I've noticed that kids in my neighbourhood transform in monsters of GTA and Eminem creation.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lan_d_best
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 15, 2005 6:00 pm PT
Review:  The PC version is pretty much a direct port of the PS2 game, containing all of the data, missions, 
 features and story of the original. You jack cars, shoot everyone, kick ass and take no names. 
 Bicycles, food, clothing, hairstyles, the gym, turf wars - it's all here. 
  
  Then you're clearly wondering what's new in the PC version. The answer is a few things, actually. 
 While driving in the GTA games has always been ghetto-fabulous, it's even better now thanks to 
 the ability to check out your surroundings with the mouse. Couple this with much greater draw distances 
 and resolutions and you'll spot short-cuts like a pro and dodge oncoming traffic with ease. OG 
 GTA nuts can hook up a gamepad to make it feel more old-school, but frankly, the mouse-keyboard 
 is pretty darn comfy. 
  
  It's G O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O O D!!!
  
  Worth playing  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miblis
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 15, 2005 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Finally, the next game to the GTA series. Ok graphics are good, not as good as games such as Half 
 Life, but we're down with the hood so we just care about gameplay and storyline ; ) . Ok the gameplay 
 is good but it can be wroked on. Runing doesn't really look like a running, more like a penguin 
 and the jump doesn't flow. Nobody would jump as if they were competing in the running long jump. 
 Alright alrite, enough giving the game beats. Let's move on. Sound are really good for this game, 
 as in everything hsa a sound and all related to each other. Storyline is really amazing. The only 
 thing I didn't really like was those "helicopter missions" 
  because admit it folks, they are in a pain the butt (hence I cannot swear) . The Value is really 
 good because its a great game at a great price. Once again, I really enjoyed the gameplay. Though 
 some of the missions act like run on sentences, over 95% were different each time adding anticipation 
 to the game. Also, after every mission, the small storie plots between each mission left me in 
 suspence giving a great effect to the player and the game itself. Most "gangster" type games are 
 all about shooting but this was more than that. There were much more "abilities" that previous 
 GTA games. For example, when you walk into the bar, you can play pool. Like playin ga game in the 
 game. Also, you actually have to pretend your in the game because if you don't keep your health 
 up along with your life, you can't survive throughout the game. For example, you have to keep your 
 girlfriend happy while going out and helping your crew defeat the enemy. Also, you have to eat, 
 but the visit the gym as well to make sure you are fit. If your not fit, there a less chance that 
 you'll survive in the game. Therefore, all in all, check my points, and you be the judge from there... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballababy67
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2005 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Its is just cool! :) soo cool i cant explain how much! 2 me its best graphics, sound, & performance! 
 thing is, is that im on laptop which is sort of new. :P
  i don't have an old windows so if u u have a low performance computer, i probably wont recommend 
 it. to finish it of :) 0 . . . . . . . . . . . .  
 loololololol  olololololololol 
 ol ol olo lo  j j j j 
 j j . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . .. . . .. . . . .. . . . . .. . . . .. . . . . . .. . . . .. 
 . . . . .. . . . . .. . . .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gurnis0
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 14, 2005 6:03 am PT
Review:  This GTA have a little bit of Sims, Need For Speed and some war games. Sims part is that you can 
 change clothes, hairs and tatoos and Carl can learn some new things. Need For Speed part is that 
 you can toon cars. you can change colors, put on nitros, put in car stero (i dont know what it 
 do) , put in amortizators. Some cars is more things- spiners, roof chops and more. There is real 
 war and action in some misions. Like in that one wheree you mast get in army base and steel jetpack. 
 Also incredible driving. In one mision you must drive in plane, kill everybody in plane and then 
 get out of it. Only sound sometimes is VERY bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devillblood25
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2005 6:32 pm PT
Review:  I have played this game many times and i have not gotten tired of it yet it is simply the craziest 
 game ever. and if you have played vice city you should find this better and more fun. It is good 
 after the classice GTA III which is and i mean it man which is one of the classic games made till 
 now. and if Rokstar games do plan to take out a sequel to San Andreas. It is going to be simply 
 awesome. The gameplay of this game is sick and the story line is also crazy. The graphics are ok 
 but they could have improved it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elliot_
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2005 7:30 am PT
Review:  I gonna be honest ..... i don't know why everybody talks about this game ...
  the game is nothing special ....... the first one one IT was a great Game. .. but this? why.... its 
 not so good .... is truly it is big and funny .... but is only one more..... and after we play it 
 we see that is nothing mutch better than the gta3... for me it was the best in series.... The grafics 
 of this one sucks 
  it dont like a game of 2005 or 2004.... for a game of the year i think it should be much better 
 than that....
  cause if we want see game like.... can play driver for ps one...
  and the results will be the same................
  or not: P
  
  THe game is not so bad i have 
 to admite, but also its not SSOO good like everybody says 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zupaah
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 11, 2005 1:15 am PT
Review:  I will write this in Dutch, but It sais something like "highly addictive and superb game."
  Zo, eindelijk iets nederlands te lezen. Haha... Zoals ik hierboven al aangaf in het engels, 't 
 is een sterk verslavend spel. Op het moment het beste spel wat ik ooit gespeeld heb, en dat zijn 
 er een hoop. 
  Ik zit geloof ik over de 350 uren die ik heb gespeeld en ben net over de 90%. Het is niet snel, 
 maar ik heb tot nu toe geen maps en/of cheats gebruikt in het spel en heb ze zoals het er nu uit 
 ziet niet nodig ook. 
  Mijn eerste indruk van het spel was dat het rijden veel moeilijker was dan in Vice City. Heb het 
 daarna opzij gelegt en ben pas enkele maanden later weer begonnen. Mijn eerste indruk was totaal 
 fout en helemaal gebaseerd op een ritje met een slechte auto.
  Als je nog twijfelt over de aanschaf van dit spel, zeg ik je, 
 KOOP HET SPEL!!! of weet 
 ik veel hoe je hem krijgt, krijg hem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pandamanloco
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 10, 2005 6:01 am PT
Review:  San Andreas as an adiction AWSOME
  
  This game is awsome because you can do a lot of things, like towing cars with a tow truck attached 
 to another tow truck and so on, it might be kind of clumsy but really fun. The amount of things 
 to perform are quite impresive you can't ever get bored. It is just the best game i've have ever 
 player, along with Vice City. The tematic is not boring. The only thing i did not like was that 
 it's stroy line is pretty short. It would be a good idea to make alternative endings, depending 
 on your progess or decisions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cstrip
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2005 6:18 pm PT
Review:  After finding the game I could not wait to play it 1st I must say is that it is the best looking 
 game in the box I was a very cool idea for them to make the cd case the in the back of the game 
 manual. But there were some small problems with the game I had found for one the where a lot of 
 audio problems with the game for example a person would be taken and you could not hear it so you 
 would have to turn on the subtitles for the game in order to hear what the people were saying also 
 the effects of the cars were sometimes not there or came up every so often I love gta III and part 
 of the reason I did was because of the freedom it had but the freedom was very simple which was 
 good for example there were not as many thing to do and as many buttons the learn so now the game 
 just feels like the Sims with guns which I dont like also in the game the camra angles for the 
 game made me crash into a lot of things but I gave it time and it is growing on me because after 
 the 1 couple of people you work for it begins to feel like a gta game I would recommend this to 
 anyone because despite all the problems it has it still lives up to the gta name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedo
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 6, 2005 4:03 pm PT
Review:  I've played this game a while ago. Sorry if something's not correct. So many reviews have already 
 been written so I will try to be somewhat shorter with mine this time
  
  Intro:
  
  Well we've come a long way since I first saw the little character from birdview stealing cars and 
 killing policemen. The latest game in the GTA series gives a new meaning to freedom of action in 
 games.
  
  The Core:
  
  This time you'll be taking a role of a black bro returning to his hood in San Franc... Andreas. 
 This by itself is a plus to the game. I haven't seen too many games with the main character being 
 a black man. IN fact I don't know any games where that's the case. I don't know did they ever make 
 the game from the movie Blade?... Anyways I'm digressing again...
  
  After you're given control of your character you are totally free to run around, beat up and/or 
 shoot and/or cut and/or screw people (in some cases) , steal their cars, destroy them and just generally 
 break moral boundries. You can also follow the storyline which is, although absolutely insane, 
 still is very evidently present and is well worked out. Throughout your trip you will meet some 
 really wacko funny and sometimes annoying characters as you make your way up the finanicial and 
 territorial ladders. 
  
  There's SOOOO much to do in San Andreas I just don't know how I will ever finish this review. I 
 will not name everything but I can tell you that there's a little bit for everyone. If you just 
 like living everyday life you can go to bars where you can play pool or to Casinos where you can 
 play cards, slot machines, roulette etc. You can go to the gym to work on your abbs and your moves 
 or you can forget the gym and become a burger-man. Earn money different ways and then spend them 
 to buy yourself some new clothes or take a flight to the Strip in Las V... Venturas. 
  
  Each of the smaller in-game games I named here are very well worked out. I mean I've played games 
 totally devoted to pool that were worse than the simple pool game in GTA San Andreas. 
  
  Also very important is to mention the territory control in GTA San Andreas. You could call this 
 one the biggest of the small in-game games. By attacking and then holding certain areas of the 
 city (alone or with some of your homies) you can take control of them and earn respect and... well 
 the territory. 
  
  The abundunce of vehicles you can drive in game has increased. Bicycles, motorbikes, buggies, cars, 
 airplanes (jets and commercial) , helicopters (military and commerical) , boats, tractors... oh I 
 can't count'em all. They are only missing skateboards, horses and the Shuttle... now that I think 
 of it there is a skateboard in the game that you can't skate.
  
  The place is huge! It takes a good while to get from one city to another if you're going by anything 
 other than an airplane. Oh yes did I mention that there are 3 cities in this game and not just 
 one?
  
  A annoying minus about the storyline I'd like to state is that in order to continue you need to 
 accomplish pretty much every mission and some of those missions (and I'm directly referring to 
 the Catalina missions) have so extremely irritated me to the bottom of my heart that I almost given 
 up on the storyline... almost. 
  
  Visuals:
  
  Well honestly I can't say I'm too happy with these. Probably this has to do with my dislike of 
 comic-like games. GTA San Andreas just isn't very far from its predecesors. The graphics will however 
 tax your systems heavily. I was barely able to play it on my old 2 GHz machine. That might have 
 something to do with the amuont of stuff drawn in game. It also has that comic-lighting effect 
 (on cars in particular) I didin't really like. Not to scare you off, visuals in San Andreas aren't 
 bad. I just think they could've been better.
  
  Sound:
  
  Very well done. Sound is one of the game's strongest points (as if it doesn't have enough of those... huh...) . 
 The voices are very well played and go in harmony with the characters. The radio in San Andreas 
 is full of new stuff.. well if to remember that it's generally just someone elses' songs maybe not 
 all that new after all. There are, just like before, different styles to satisfy everyone and of 
 course GTA supports user's own mp3 files. Nice!
  
  I could however not enjoy the sound too much. For some reason everytime I had the sound on my system 
 was slowed down considerably to the point of unplayability. That might just be my weird old onboard 
 sound. 
  
  Conclusion: 
  
  Well if I didn't have that weird pool bug and if I didn't need HD space for other games and if 
 there was a decent white skin among the availible mods (NO, not a racist but I like being me in 
 my games) I would probably still be playing this game. Could probably be a little more balanced 
 out so the graphics are in accordance with the minimum requirements. Unlike so many other games 
 I think this game is really worth its cost . You'll have your hands full for quite a while with 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silver_bLooD
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 5, 2005 1:49 pm PT
Review:  The best in the GTA games was surely fair for me... I'll state Pro's and Con's about why I I though 
 it was fair.
  
  Sound&Music
  Pro
  - Music felt like this game was made in the 90's old skool rap,
  -The Songs quality was well 
 done
  -Crisp and clear dialoged between CJ and NCPs
  
  Cons
  - Not enough different types of radio stations mostly felt that it was all "gangster" music
  
 
  Graphics
  Pro
  -Glare form the sun make the desert look amazing
  -Cars and people, building all look fanatisc and well done
  
  Cons-
  -Roads would some times 
 turn blue...
  -Colors look boring no different shades of color for the cars when spray painting them
  
  Game 
 play-
  Pro- I dont know it was so addictive and fun to shoot people, the story was well written if all 
 were to good.
  Cons- To Gangster for me, too much swearing... ever word that would come outta the NCP's mouths 
 would be F***, Mother****er.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RAYDOOM
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2005 9:14 pm PT
Review:  a historical game
  extraordinary game, the best game i have ever played !
  Welcome to the all new GTA-SanAndreas. com site. This site is here to provide up to date information 
 on the newest Grand Theft Auto game, San Andreas. The site originally started on February 17, 2003 
 based on rumours and speculation, and after over a year of working with no content, the game was 
 finally confirmed. Since then the site has gone through two different layouts, and is now settling 
 on this, the third design for the site. The site is updated daily and aims to be one of the best 
 resources for GTA: San Andreas information. Gta is the best game evr and it lives upto its name. 
 hurray for grand theft auto. does anyone know how to paas BURNING DESIRE it so tuff?
  
  GTA RULZ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomhesoka55
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 1, 2005 2:44 am PT
Review:  i think that GTA SA is one of greatest games that released on pc and any one who play this games 
 will find something that not found in other games.
  
  game play: i think when you play GTA SA you will see something new in every mission and you will 
 see amazing events in its story, so this game deserve full mark in gameplay, but the thing that 
 don't let me mark it 10 is "things" that happened with girls in closed doors.
  
  graphics: the game disappointed in its graphics because when you play it after playing game with 
 graphics like doom3 one you will see GTA SA graphics bad , but when you remember that the game 
 has a wide map with allot of environments and without (loading) between cities you will say that 
 the game graphics is good.
  
  other things in game ins really good . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeepMeepoo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 30, 2005 3:15 pm PT
Review:  It's finally here, after 8 months of waiting. If you have the PS2 version when it first came out 
 in October of 2004, buying the PC version of the game is still no mistake. Released in June of 
 2005, there was a lot of hype surrounding this game, comparing it to the PS2 version. After you 
 read this review, you will certainly go out to EB Games or perhaps even Wal-Mart to buy this awesome 
 Action-Adventure PC game.
  
  Gameplay-
  
  The missions are fun-filled, high-adrenaline, and exciting. The missions can range from assassination, 
 stealing an important document to blowing up a cargo plane. The missions are varied, with very 
 little repetitive gameplay. After you complete a mission, you will have the urge to complete the 
 NEXT mission, and after you complete that mission, you'll want to complete the NEXT mission, and 
 so on. The missions are well thought out and the storyline links to Grand Theft Auto III and some 
 references to GTA: Vice City. Remember Fido from GTA III? Well, he's in there and don't forget 
 Catalina. There is also Ken Rosenberg, the former lawyer for Tommy Vercetti in Vice City, who is 
 now a cocaine addict. You play as Carl Johnson (CJ) a black guy who left home due to gangs and 
 drugs and he comes back to find out that his mom had died. He goes through mission after mission, 
 gaining respect and territory from Grove Street families' rival gang, the Ballas. Done with the 
 missions and done with being the "Bad" guy?
  There are always side-missions for you to do after you have finished the storyline. Such as Paramedic, 
 driving the ambulance around and driving injured people into hospitals, and Vigilante, killing 
 criminals. There are also races ranging from Helicopter races, to street racing, as well as motorcycle 
 races. After you've done all the races, you'll be awarded with a whopping $1,000,000. Overall, 
 the missions are great and are varied and when you get the 100% completion, you'll feel like some 
 one has to come into your house and hand you $100.
  
  Graphics-
  
  The graphics in the game, of course, can't compare with Half-Life 2 or even Doom 3. Fortunately, 
 the graphics are much improved from Vice City. The walking animations are realistic, pedestrians 
 are well rendered, faces are recognizable, and muscles actually look like muscles, instead of a 
 huge ham. The tattoos that you can put on CJ look like tattoos, not just a black picture on his 
 skin. The textures are beautifully rendered and environments are detailed. The motion blur that 
 you did not have before finally shows up. When you drive a car or a motorcycle at high speed, you'll 
 feel like you're Vin Diesel from The Fast and the Furious. The clothes that you buy from stores 
 are pretty cool, ranging from recognizable bandannas that gangs wear to basketball shoes that Michael 
 Jordan wears, both highly detailed. Even though you'll need a decent machine to prevent lag, you'll 
 have lag when you see a lot of fire, whether you have a Nvidia 6800 GT or an ATi X850.
  The graphics overall are definitely above normal and is a big factor in the game.
  
  Sound-
 
  
  The voice acting is incredible. You can hear voices of the legendary Ice T, rapper The Game, the 
 hilarious James Woods, and of course, Samuel L. Jackson. The in-game radio tracks are great. Rap 
 from Tupac, Ice Cube, N. W. A, rock music from Rod Stewart and Kiss, and funk from Rick James.
  The gun sounds, pedestrian conversations and car explosions are music to your ears... well, not 
 literally. The Sound effects are well done and deserves the 9/10
  
  Value-
  
  No doubt about it. $50 is already a bargain. Look at the games out today: Quake 4, F. E. A. R, City 
 of Villains, Call of Duty 2. They are all $60 and some don't even last for 50 hours. Look at the 
 production values, hiring graphics artists and it's start-studded voice-acting.
  
  Conclusion-
  
  If you didn't already have bought this game, buy it. Hell, if you already have 
 this game on PS2, why not buy this game for your PC? It's a totally different game experience. 
 Sure, you'll get addicted this this game, but think of all the things you can do in it, you'll 
 never get bored. Dress up your CJ, buy a couple of guns, modify a dozen of cars, go out with a 
 girlfriend. After you're done with all that, why not cap 100 pedestrians in the head with an AK47?
 
  Possibilities are limitless, go find a couple of glitches if you like, and have fun. Buy this 
 game. PERIOD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lyper-15
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 30, 2005 11:19 am PT
Review:  This Game Is Amazing In The Gameplay, The Value (This game is soooo Long to finish... Believe me!!) , 
 Sound... Ok but not fantastic, and the graphic... what the heck?? you need a over-powered computer 
 to run Crappy-graphic?? Thats the most big loser point!! if the game having this graphic but no 
 need of a over-powered computer thats will be okay!! Anyway Thats game is awesome!! Bought it you 
 need it but if you have a xbox or a ps2 buy it in home-console!!
  
  B U Y I T P L E A S E : D !!! B U T I N H O M E - C O N S O L E : D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cholasimmons
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2005 8:02 am PT
Review:  After playing Vice City, I couldnt play any other game! ('til I got tomb raider Angel of Darkness!) 
 which i believ eidos has ruined completely!! but still ROCKSTAR did it again and released San Andreas 
 & I simply switched sides. San Andreas is... ROCK-STAR SPECIAL!! I havent yet got driv3r so I cant 
 compare the two just yet but DAMN!! Andreas is fine!! at this kind of rate they're gona hav to 
 up the rating board to 100.0 out of 10.0 on their next game! I know thats what "I'll" vote!!
  
  Good Job keepin us happy guys!
  
  cholasimmons@hotmail. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bradoo16
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 30, 2005 1:05 am PT
Review:  This game, simply astonishing, you couldnt want much more in a game like this, nearly everything 
 you wanted to ever have and do in a videogame is in this game!
  
  Kind of a pain that they took hot coffee out but oh well, there is certainly so much more to look 
 forward to, i recommend it to anyone that wants a game that is well worh the money and worth the 
 wait and worthy of being one of the best games in the history of games.
  
  Its not only a 3rd person game, you can do driving races, boat races, so much more, if i were to 
 write what this game had in it, like writing everything it has then this review would be the longest 
 one in gamespot easy lol! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamiddd
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 29, 2005 7:46 pm PT
Review:  I know you dont need this review to tell that this game rocks. Every body rates it high even though 
 the graphics are animate but the gameplay is so good you just have to give it a great score. You 
 can go around and be a gangster and get some good laughs while killing people. Dont believe the 
 hype about this game is bad for influences because there are far worse games then this. It is truly 
 a masterpieceIt has just about everything, small RPG-elements (muscle, stamina etc.) , minigames, 
 races, free-roaming, casino's, and of course a great story which developes over the game with missions. 
 If you want to get 100 % ( like me ) get ready for some long sessions, because it can take more 
 than 100 hours getting every single thing. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gam3Guy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 28, 2005 2:21 pm PT
Review:  This is an awesome game for the PC with amazing single player. There is no multi-player built into 
 the game but MTA from MTA-VC (multi-player in Vice City) is getting developed for SA and looks 
 so far like its going to be fun. The gameplay in this game is great. The story is pretty good. 
 Very briefly, it is about a character named Carl Johnson who gets framed by the cops and he gets 
 revenge. You start out in a city called Los Santos and you eventually unlock your way to two other 
 cites. 
  
  This is a very replayable game especially since it is coming out with a number of mods like its 
 predecessor, Vice City, has. After you beat the game almost all if not all of your weapons will 
 be upgraded to higher accuracy and rate of fire which makes it great to just run around rampant 
 getting as many stars as possible or just talking a nice drive around the city. There are alot 
 of cool areas in the game where you can do some cool tricks off of or camp out in for safety when 
 you are getting hunted down by cops and/or gangs in the city. The most noteable area being Mount 
 Chilliad is an amazing spot for doing both. 
  
  Here is how I would rate this game: 
  
  Gameplay: Very original. GTA was the first franchise to start the open citys in which you can roam 
 in and do what ever your heart desires. GTA: SA is very very fun to play and roam around in. 10/10
 
  
  Graphics: Pretty good graphics considering the size of the game and it gets better at higher resolutions 
 if your PC can handle it. San Andreas runs off of the original GTAIII engine but obviously is heavily 
 modified. There are a few (not enough to where it ruins the atmosphere of the game) graphical problems, 
 most obvious in the animation sequences. 9/10
  
  Sound: A lot of sound problems in the retail version of San Andreas. Some times you can't even 
 hear the dialogue or it gets so low where its very hard to understand. Although there are ways 
 around to fix this problem in the game, it is very frustrating. 7/10
  
  Value: For the money its one of your best deals in gaming for how long this game will last. This 
 game is worth every dollar. 10/10
  
  Total: 9.6
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kau83
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 26, 2005 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Being in LOs Angeles makes u feel the real worth of the game..........
  
  what a game man too real and fantastic... nice gameplay amazing action.
  nice characters nice 
 weapons..
  
  good story this time GTA has evolved in the better version and I think its the best game in the 
 series.
  u can ride right from the bicycle to tank... and u can screw lot of people's ass
  
  good gangs and and action
  overall nice game good action nice sound..
  good one to go for...
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lipan03
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 25, 2005 8:18 am PT
Review:  It such a long time I'm waiting for this game release from GTA Vice City.
  I put this game is in my top 10 games. That a great job from Rockstar to create game like this. 
 It's gonna blow my mind. The CJ boy, amazing storyline, from the annoying to great gangster. 
 
  Something new from the previous GTA, the CJ boy can swimming, that nice I like it. I'm waiting 
 for this for a long time to see him swimming.
  Driving skill improve for a long journey U take.. so take along journey...
  
  Gameplay, 9/10. 
 It crazy to control the plane...
  
  Stroyline, 10/10. Great storyline for the CJ boy 
  
  Sound 10/10. Great radio station. Very funny and good song.
  
  Graphics 9/10. Great graphic.
 
  
  Value 9/10. 
  
  -Thanks 
  .... don't try this while U in LA..... ;-P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brainkiller05
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2005 7:30 am PT
Review:  This game is in my top 5 games, and i feel it will stay there for a long time to come. This game 
 provides you with hours and hours of playing time, and that is just the storyline. hours of storyline, 
 months of just free roam, their is plenty of features to keep you coming back to the game, eg. 
 Unique stunts, tags, horsehoes, oysters. They will keep you going a long time. Their is also features 
 like the "triathlon" which is also great fun, so this game packs a very big punch, this game is 
 probably the only game which can keep you at it for such a long time, you are always occupied with 
 something to do, and for a company to make a game like that is amazing, what gamers want is a game 
 that fits that structure, months of playing time, fun, exciting, surprises, great storyline and 
 that is exactly what Rockstar have made, Grand Theft Auto San Andreas, greatest game ever released. 
 No matter what system you play it on you will like it, PC obviously has the upper hand, purely 
 because of the power of the PC, but even on the ps2 or x-box this game is amazing.
  
  Gameplay, 10/10. Very fun, and enjoyable.
  
  Stroyline, 10/10. Has a great storyline, also 
 very enjoyable and the it has a purpose.
  
  Sound 10/10. Very well synced, their is minimal bad synching, (characters mouths move along with 
 the sound)
  
  Graphics 10/10. What can i say, this game is the best realsitic game of it's genre. 
  
  Value 
 10/10. Easily worth every penny you put to it.
  
  Overall 10/10. This game gives hours of fun even to people who do not like games of the genre, 
 action/shooting/driving. Rockstar have done an amazing job with this game and is easily worthy 
 of a 10/10 rating. Truly a great game.
  
  -Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dariune
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 25, 2005 4:33 am PT
Review:  I have played all the other GTA games and have really enjoyed them all. 
  I bought GTA SA and started playing that. 
  
  The storyline kicked in straight away and almost 
 from the start i felt like i was a gangster at the bottom of the pile. 
  As you progress you will gradually become a more prestigous gangster but you wont notice it actually 
 happening. 
  You will just start to feel like you have more resources available. 
  These could be boats or jets with missiles on them, or gang members willing to lend you a hand. 
 The gang members although fun do tend to get in the way as much as help but the other assets are 
 a lot of fun to play with. 
  The graphics of the game arent really much of an improvment but if it aint broke dont fix it. They 
 still do the job. 
  The sounds are great and for PC users you can use your own music. 
  The missions are varied and fun with few irritating ones and with most of them you wont mind if 
 you fail and hae to restart. 
  I personally liked to break away from the missions and just mess around in the huge playing field 
 theg ame offers. 
  There is so much to do it just doesnt get boring. 
  The extra things like being able to swim and learning new fight techniques are good fun to and 
 only serve to add to the experience. 
  I did get a little bored when the mission said i needed to be a better swimmer and had to swim 
 for a while as a reult. 
  
  To Summerise
  The story is fun and absorbing 
  The sound as usual is fantastic
  The protaganist is believable 
  he side games are fun
  The 
 missions are fun
  You can play this game for ages
  Im trying hard to think of a notable bad point but cant 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hucke
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 25, 2005 12:39 am PT
Review:  GTA: SA is a very funny game. You play as a guy who is coming back from Liberty City to hos home 
 town. When he gets there heard that his mom has died. After that his brother said thath they have 
 lost ther influence in the brotherhood and you are now the one who shud restore familys respect...
 
  The Graphick isnt the best iv seen but you almost forget that when you play the game. Its so 
 intressting that you can have fun all the time. 
  I recomend this game to everybody who loves the GTA family, and to you who havnt play it... Well 
 what are you whating fore?!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: whynotdairy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 24, 2005 3:48 pm PT
Review:  WOWOWOWOWOWOWOW WOW awsome game you all! i will never get tired of this game! boo yah! online play 
 needed though, the maps are huge i love this game i have it on both pc and ps2 and wow, online 
 play couldve gotten this game a 10/10 but a9.9/10 is good enough for me through the dangerous streets 
 of san andreas kill kill kill kill! all you want and the cheats on this game are as good as ever! 
 killing where ever you go flying planes driving boats, bikes, farm  
 wow buy this game if you dont have and do not sell it if you have keep it along with vice city, 
 3, 2,1 (actually only vice city and san andreas) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20282802130167100707069738027418-pwhand
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 24, 2005 10:54 am PT
Review:  Intro:
  
  San Andreas is probably one of the biggest games to date, which is not necessarily a good thing. 
 It tries to combine driving, shooting, and hundreds of minigames, but none of it comes together 
 particularly well. San Andreas offers mediocre graphics, forgettable sound, and shoddy gameplay. 
 Although this game offers much to do, it is kept extremely basic and all of it just seems cheaply 
 thrown together.
  
  Story:
  
  The story of this game has you, Carl "CJ" Johnson, going back to his hometown to bury his mother 
 who was killed in a driveby. Yes, this is a "gangsta" game, which means it will be extremely annoying! 
 Your first of three major locales, Los Santos (Los Angeles rip-off) , is where the game begins and 
 has you setting up your "operations" and teaches the gameplay mechanics. Your first mission has 
 you riding a bike to your house after being picked up by some cops. The cops are crooked, go figure, 
 and framed you for the murder of an officer. They take all your money and throw you out in the 
 territory of your rival gang, the Ballers. From there, the game goes through a story that is roughly 
 18 hours, and takes you through San Fierro and Las Venturas. You should be able to figure what 
 cities they're ripping off.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Enough of the story already. The gameplay is notorious for being free-form and letting you do whatever 
 you want. It does that, but it is not done particularly well in any entry. The driving is kept 
 very basic. There are no special maneuvers to be learned, although there is an optional driving 
 school later in the game, but it is just very basic stuff. The most advanced thing you can pull 
 off in a car is a 360, done by holding accelerate and reverse, and turning. Not too fun. The shooting 
 is even more basic and even annoying. In order to shoot you have to hold down the RMB and then 
 click the LMB. Sounds like survival horror doesn't it? Did I mention it was annoying? 
  That is old news; however, the new innovation (yeah right) in San Andreas is this stats system. 
 It combines RPG elements like leveling up weapon and vehicle skill, and Sims elements like basic 
 needs of eating and working out. Of course this sounds deep, but it is in fact extremely shallow. 
 I maybe ate once in the whole game when it was required by an early mission. The game claims you 
 will start losing health, but I never did. If you don't eat you will be skinny, if you eat a lot 
 you will be fat. Very basic. Working out is even worse. You have the option of riding an exercise 
 bike, running on a treadmill, lifting weights, boxing, and dojos. Again, sounds deep, but is very 
 shallow. Increasing stamina just involves slamming on the spacebar until the game says you've reached 
 your limit. The weights are even worse. You alternate between clicking the LMB and spacebar until 
 the game says you've reached your limit. These workout methods are intended to increase your strength 
 so you can fight better in melee fights. However, there is really no reason to use your fists with 
 the many weapons the game offers. There are pistols, Micro and normal SMGs, shotguns, assault and 
 sniper rifles, and then heavy weapons. It just doesn't really make sense.
  Another feature of this game is the ability to date girlfriends which is just pathetic. There are 
 six different girlfriends you are able to date and all have different likes and dislikes. For example, 
 in order for one girl to ask you out, you have to be fat. If your sex appeal stat is high enough, 
 then you don't have to worry about any of that. When you take them to restaurants the game plays 
 dumb romance music and then youre done. You are then prompted to take the girl home with a message 
 that says, "... this could be it! This is inferring sex with your girlfriend. When you take her 
 home and if she invites you in, the screen shakes and you hear moaning and groaning and its just 
 really dumb. You also have the option to give your girlfriend sex toys which is just another layer 
 on this heaping pile of garbage. When you court your girls to a certain percentage you get their 
 car, and eventually a special outfit, one being a pimp suit. I AM SPEECHLESS.
  There is a wanted level that goes up to six stars. It goes from a cop chasing you to the Army and 
 everything in between. There are also different schools you can attend like driving, biking, boating, 
 and flying, but it is not realistic for the subject matter. The schools are pointless and don't 
 teach you anything that will help you. You can attend arena events as well like dirt biking or 
 a derby, or racing, but it is horribly scripted along with the rest of the games shallow missions.
 
  The AI, notorious for being awful, has not changed. Your homies (whatever the heck that means) , 
 which you can recruit to "dump on sum bustas" and cops are extremely stupid and run into walls 
 80% of the time. 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Yes they are bad. With a game that does so much, you would think that they would have spent little 
 time on graphics, which they did. The graphics are very weak. You can set the resolution up to 
 1280x1024, but that just further accents the blocky character models and low-res textures this 
 game offers all throughout. There is a detail option and an aliasing option, but these again further 
 accent these pathetic graphics. Unlike previous entries, San Andreas takes a more realistic approach 
 in the graphics department, but the cars end up looking cel-shaded and everything else just bad. 
 These graphics are not even close to what we are used to today and the game makes that obvious. 
 For example, in the opening cutscene the car sort of skips around, like it is moving back and forth 
 really fast while moving forward; really weird. Another issue is when the game is attempting a 
 serious cutscene there is a major clipping issue you just break out laughing because it is so bad. 
 Another thing is the muzzle flashes on your weapons. When you shoot a gun, it just looks like a 
 jumble of pale yellow polygons shaped into a crystal in order to create a muzzle flash. It really 
 bugged me that that was all they could come up with.
  
  Sound:
  
  Overall, the sound is pretty low quality. When you are in a car, you can listen to the radio; wow! 
 There are maybe 12 different stations ranging from rock, to rap, to love songs, to talk radio. 
 Some might find these funny, but they're just stupid with many references to mast**bation and other 
 sexual things. That is basically all the radio has to offer along with a wide selection preschool 
 dropout rappers attempting music, but it is just BAD. The weapons sounds are very crackly and simple 
 and none of them sound good at all. One in particular is the minigun which just sounds like a distorted 
 echo of some sort. Really bad. The voice-overs aren't great either. There is some unknown rapper 
 as the star, a bunch more gangstas as supporting roles, and the most well know is probably James 
 Woods as a crooked CIA operative. Everybody thinks he is so great, but its just another voice 
 to listen to. Be thankful you can skip through the cutscenes.
  
  Misc:
  
  This section is just to explain my miscellaneous complaints of this game. Something that really 
 burns me about this game is the culture, which is very annoying. The whole gangsta', fo sho, pimpin', 
 trash is just very annoying and is in no way likeable. You have these preschool dropout gangstas 
 running around snuffing crack, having promiscuous sex with six different women, and then just killing 
 civilians and cops and the game doesn't penalize you in any way. Another thing is that youre some 
 stupid ghetto crackhead and you can somehow take on the Army and in one mission, steal a jet. Being 
 able to take on two cops and steal a jet is extremely dumb. 
  Oh my, I forgot Hot Coffee. Hot Coffee was a mod which "unlocked hidden sex scenes". Rockstar had 
 this garbage hidden in this game, but they slickly deny it. On nomorehotcoffee. com, its just a 
 page saying they "in no way intended for these scenes to be viewable in the final product.", but 
 why in the world would you put something like that in at all?! Apparently Rockstar thinks sleazy 
 garbage like GTA sells, which it does, but if you actually take a look at the game you will see 
 that it is indeed sleazy, cheap, garbage. 
  Innuendo also plays a heavy role in this game. A few examples are The World's Biggest *ock, which 
 is just a giant rooster. Another is an airline company called Juank Air, and another of many is 
 the Vank Hoff hotel. It is just saying "**** off" with a German accent. There are hordes of mast**bation 
 references and a character named Maccer, who really mimics the voice actor, Shaun Ryder; another 
 mast**bating crackhead. You can also have sex with prostitutes and this benefits you by giving 
 you 125 health instead of the normal 100. I could not believe something like that got in. There 
 are also strip clubs with a bunch of big breasted, pathetically rendered women. The series is notorious 
 for violence, language, sex, drugs, etc. and has been criticized by the media, soccer moms, and 
 recently Jack Thompson and Leeland Yee who I would definitely side with. This game is just like 
 one of the cheap, sleazy movies that try to use sex and whatever else it can, to sell. 
  
  Conclusion:
  
  San Andreas set out to do many things, but it failed. Sadly this type of game 
 does sell, but at least with the Hot Coffee fiasco Rockstar lost a lot. San Andreas is technically 
 and subjectively cheap and is in no way close to being good.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnzoLake
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Bueno, qu&eacute; decir de la saga GTA. Odiada por muchos, amada por otros tantos, lo que casi 
 nadie puede negar es su calidad.
  
  Si has jugado al GTA III o al Vice City y te han parecido juegazos, lo normal es que si alguien 
 te dice que este juego es mucho mejor te parecer&aacute; imposible. Sin embargo es cierto, muy 
 cierto.
  
  Supongo que Rockstar Games ha partido de la base la f&oacute; rmula de juego funciona, qu&eacute; 
 podemos cambiar? , y ha decidido mejorar o a&ntilde; adir algunas cosas nuevas cosas al juego, como 
 puede ser el hecho de que el personaje puede nadar, necesita comer para ganar vida, puede comprar 
 muchas casas, etc.
  
  A todo esto hay que a&ntilde; adirle lo que todos conocemos de la saga GTA: libertad. Adem&aacute; s, 
 esta libertad se ampliado. Ahora tienes un estado entero para t&iacute;: San Andreas, o California. 
 Con grandes tres ciudades, muchos pueblos, desierto, campo y monta&ntilde; a.
  
  Gr&aacute; ficamente el juego cumple aunque no es de lo mejor que se ha visto. Es normal que no 
 veamos unos graficazos porque dificultar&iacute; an mover este inmenso mapa como es San Andreas.
 
  
  Los efectos sonoros son incre&iacute; bles. La banda sonora es perfecta, con grandes temas de inicios 
 de los 90' de todos los g&eacute; neros. Y el doblaje, sencillamente magistral. Es perfecto, y est&aacute; 
 lleno de grandes talentos detr&aacute; s de los micr&oacute; fonos: Samuel L. Jackson, Chris Penn, 
 Young MayLay, The Game...
  
  Definitivamente, San Andreas es uno de los grandes de esta generaci&oacute; n, si no lo tienes corre 
 a comprarlo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps2xbox10189
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 22, 2005 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay-
  I absolutely love the gameplay. Rockstar really did their homework and put a lot of new stuff in 
 the game. Eating, cycling, weight room, skills.
  
  Graphics-
  The graphics surprised me. I haven't owned any other GTA games on PC but these are much better 
 than consoles. Still arent as good as other games though, but id rather have awesome gameplay than 
 awesome graphics.
  
  Sound-
  Whats their to say? Good sound everywhere. Very good voice acting.
  
  Value-
  Considering 
 this is a LONG game and free roaming, theres a lot of value. Many mods to keep this going too.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: icecolddodo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 22, 2005 11:18 am PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY
  
  GTA San Andreas has probably best gameplay of all action games.
  There are many interesting, not very scripted, and well made missions, but this game has gameplay 
 rated 10 becouse of many mini-games ( playing pool and video games, betting, gambling...) and new 
 features ( buying clothes, making tattoes and haircuts...) . Also there are new RPG elements, but 
 if you have some skill from playing previous GTA games, you don't even take care of them. There 
 are lots of bugs and glitches that are hurting gameplay a bit.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Graphic is worst part of this game. Engine is from GTA 3, and graphic is only a little better. 
 There are also many graphic bugs.
  
  SOUND
  
  Sound is best part of this game. Music is absolutly best! There are many hits from 90-is. Like 
 in previous GTA games songs are puted in radio stations, and every station has different type of 
 music. There is music to every taste. And like it isn't enough, you can make your own radio station 
 with your own music. Except music, in radio stations you can often hear funny commercials. Voices 
 for actors in the GTA have made hollywood stars like Samuel L. Jackson.
  
  VALUE
  
  Altrought it has many bugs, GTA San Andreas is one of the best games ever created. You must buy 
 this game
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: palex14
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 22, 2005 9:27 am PT
Review:  Yes this game is so bad!!! Cool graphics, nice gameplay, it's a huge game with a huge map, with 
 a huge varieties of guns, cars, people, etc. There's a lot of things that you can do in this game, 
 tatoos, haircuts, clothing, etc. I like the bikes it's a good things in this gangsta game. This 
 is the best game in the series and that's for sure!!! We can almost do all the things that we want 
 to do in our real life. But we aren't invited to do it ... lol The creator of this game must be 
 proud of what they have done because this game is very nice! Thanks to Rockstar Games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A-S_FM
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 21, 2005 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Fans of Rockstar's previous grand theft auto releases will find that San Andreas manages to expand 
 on every single element of Vice City's awesome gameplay while also retaining the almost-perfect 
 fun levels of the previous gta games. If you've never played a gta game (ha!) you're in for the 
 time of your life. I wholeheartedly recommend this game to everyone, regardless of age or political 
 or religious inclination. You must own this game.
  
  If Vice City was Scarface, then San Andreas is Boyz N the Hood. Set in 1990-ish, the game follows 
 Carl CJ Johnson who just returned from Liberty City (gta3) to Los Santos (one of the three cities 
 in SA, SA being a state) , after finding out his mother was killed. Immediately after landing he's 
 framed for the murder of a cop, by corrupt Officer Tenpenny. I won't go into any more detail about 
 the plot, but suffice to say it twists and turns, and carries the game very well.
  
  San Andreas follows the traditional GTA formula - you have to work through a series of missions 
 in a large (very, very large) city, working your way from small time hoodlum to big cheese. The 
 first thing you must do after setting down in grove street (your home) , is to get your name back 
 on the map. You do this by mostly attacking other gangs and things like that. The first third of 
 the game is just a big gang war pretty much, it's not until you leave Los Santos that San Andreas 
 starts to feel more like Vice City.
  
  Like all previous GTA games, the missions are the central focus of the game - and San Andreas has 
 some great ones. The first few missions teach you how to play the game, how to shoot, how to drive, 
 how to spray paint, fight. Things like that. But in no time you're stealing crates of guns from 
 an army base, burning a marijuana field before the authorities arrive or chasing a high-speed train 
 down its tracks to kill some of its... less pleasant.. passengers. There's definitely much more 
 variety here.
  
  Where the last two previous gta games have taken place in a city each, San Andreas is an entire 
 state here, with 3 large cities and lots of farmland and small villages in between. The much improved 
 city size completely removes the  feeling of advanced 
 deja vu from previous games, as well as making the world feel much more worldly, which helps the 
 feel of the game a lot.
  
  The music has always been a large element in the gta series, and every gta game so far has had 
 great music. SA ihas a wide variety of music available, including alternative rock, rap hiphop 
 etc, chat - featuring the glorious return of lazlow with some simply hilarious interviews and a 
 great 70s/80s music station. Also, awesomely, you hear news reports of stuff you've done in certain 
 major missions with direct references to your actions, it's pretty awesome and again makes the 
 world much more worldly, makes it feel real.
  
  A sort of pseudo-RPG skill system has been added, for everything from swimming to shooting, you 
 have a skill rating that improves the more you do. You also have stats for personal attributes 
 such as sex-appeal and muscle. These stats could easily have come to dominate the gameplay, but 
 rockstar intelligently decided to make them a very subtle feature. You barely notice them, which 
 is great. But they serve a useful purpose for balancing reasons.
  
  Sit down and make a wish list of stuff you wanted in vice city. Guess what? It's all in San Andreas. 
 One of the big ones (for me, anyway) is the ability to give fellow gang members dawg commands - 
 er, dog commands (stay, follow, etc) , Ahem - which gives way to some excellent gang wars which 
 were sadly lacking in Vice City. Bicycles are also in the game at last, they are really cool! Oh, 
 and you can finally, finally swim. The ability to own buildings like in VC is back and better, 
 and you can actually break into people's houses now for night time burglaries. Another pretty awesome 
 addition is the ability to climb over stuff, walls, fences and the like. This may seem like a pretty 
 small addition - but it can significantly alter the game. For me, the best moments in vice city 
 were those city-wide rampages with massive car chases and narrow back-alley escapes as cars explode 
 in the background - the ability to climb over stuff adds a serious extension to chases like these, 
 especially combined with the ability to swim.
  
  For those of you who managed to wait for the PC version - you've been richly rewarded, Rockstar 
 develop their games using high resolution textures and then scales them down to meet the needs 
 of the machine, the pc has all the high resolution textures in all their glory, along with an intimidating 
 draw distance and none of those silly frame rate stutters a certain console gets. In short it looks 
 much better and it runs much better. This is the definitive version of the game.
  
  The SA mission arc is quite long and eats up a lot of time, but when the missions are over, the 
 game is only just begun! There's so much in the world you can see and do, it could've been frustrating, 
 confusing and intimidating. But again rockstar have implemented their ideas excellently. There's 
 so much to slowly discover, but most of it is stuff you don't even need to concern yourself with 
 if you don't want to. Suffice to say you could easily spend 300+ hours playing SA without seeing 
 everything it has to offer.
  
  The Grand Theft Auto games have all been amazing (except GTA London!!) , from 1998 to 2005. And 
 now in San Andreas we have what is not just the best GTA game yet (until the next one, anyway) , 
 we have a game which is so much better than most other games on the market that you can't even 
 compare them. If you're looking for a game which features awesome gameplay, an intimidating lifespan, 
 some fantastic music, great visuals and a game which is so much more than the sum of its (awesome) 
 parts, look no further than Grand Theft Auto San Andreas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dincerhocaoglu
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 21, 2005 11:02 am PT
Review:  I think Rockstars last bomb GTA: San Andreas is excellent. I loved it. Its all original and there 
 isnt any game like this in the world. First of all its bigger and bigger from Vice City. The map 
 is very big. In this game there are three cities. They are all live and extremely big. You can do 
 all things what you do in the real world. Our character and other people are like real. For example; when 
 you eat much fast food youre going to get fat. When you go to gym and do training youre ging to 
 have muscles. When you run much more, your stamina is increasing. And there are many details like 
 this in the game. The games story is very long. If you want to finish the game, it would be take 
 a month without using cheats. Graphics and sounds very good. There are very good musics in game. When 
 you start to listen, you dont want to get off from your car. In addition there are lots of car in 
 the game. So that GTAs fanatics will love it. If you search a perfect game you could take a look 
 to GTA: San Andreas... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazare
Rating: 4.3
Date: Oct 21, 2005 9:16 am PT
Review:  and i hope i see alot of sharing in this great site and i think we have no thing if didnt know 
 this site i know this site by my dear friend he tell me about it and then i opened it and enjoy 
 . when i play grand sheft auto i cant feelin the time when passed i still try to finished it but 
 i know i have alot of mission to complet it .thank u again for this great site and am pleased to 
 be one of the time who work in this site . i have one problem but i dond think its too big . my 
 languge is arabic and my english is poor but i can get and under stand alot of word in this site 
 but i mean why u didnt set an arabic section for arab may you say why i do that to attach many 
 visator to your site and make it famous.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bfam4t7
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 19, 2005 7:30 pm PT
Review:  San Andreas is overall, a good game. However, it has very little depth. Sure, there is a ton of 
 stuff to do such as buy a house, pimp out a car, start a gang war and conquer the whole city etc... 
 But, there is really no point to doing any of those besides the act of.... doing them. All of the 
 "extra" stuff seems to have been placed in the game for the sole purpose of taking up space and 
 giving the player something else to do. But, usually the benefit of doing them is less than mediocre. 
 
  
  Running people over and have a cop shootout is always fun, but not forever. This is a good game 
 and I'd recomment playing it if you haven't yet, but be warned, I lost interest in it rather quickly. 
 This primarily due to the lack of game depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MX125Fire
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 19, 2005 11:33 am PT
Review:  I was so glad to get this game... especially at the time that I did. I was in desperate need of 
 a new game at the time, and this one has kept me occupied since the day I got it. Even though the 
 missions remain pretty much the same if you replay it, you can change the routes you took in the 
 past (i. e., learn from past mistakes) , fight the battles in new locations (move into a different 
 section of the area to fight the next time so you don't lose all your health and end up praying 
 you'll make it out alive) , and the A. I. will also move to different positions too. I enjoyed the 
 game a lot and can't wait for the next GTA to come out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbi-robbi
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 19, 2005 8:22 am PT
Review:  My review of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas
  
  The newest GTA game now gets a conversion to the PC, but is it a brilliant gem of a game or a bad 
 ugly sausage. Well its a bit of both and I have never been a big fan of the GTA games, dont get 
 me wrong they are enjoyable games but is the conversion of the high selling, chart topping PS2 
 game any fun?
  
  Lets start with the graphics, these are (in my eyes) hardly updated from the PS2 version. The character 
 models for instance are very basic for PCs and though they have detail, they dont seem very sharp, 
 but the fact the size of the cities is enormous is great and buildings around you look very nice 
 but some of building seem to lack the attention to detail most have. The cars on the other hand 
 are all very nice to look at and have great attention to detail. 
  Now lets move on to the sound part of this big game, the voice acting is very good and the music 
 is great and varied from Rap to Rock. The sound affects are also very neatly done and nice to hear, 
 from the sound of a hard- hit punch to a BANG! From a Rocket Launcher.
  
  O. K then lets move on to the gameplay, as all GTA games this is a very large area we set ourselves 
 in, you must, run, walk, drive and fly your way to places. The game is set up in missions for other 
 people, which you must complete. For this game think vice city but bigger and better missions. 
 Plus the PC version suffers with a few technical issues.
  
  How long will I be playing the game I hear you ask well there are three islands and they all 
 include loads of people with a handful of missions, but there are some little task to do like: 
 do the 100 spray, which is boring and offers little replay value.
  
  Graphics:: look very average on the PC, but there is high detail.
  Sound/Audio: Very good voice 
 acting and some great music to listen to.
  Gameplay: Great gameplay with some really fun missions to play but there are some technical issues.
 
  Lifespan: Loads of missions but sometimes it can get a little boring, so youll drop for a bit 
 then play it some more.
  
  Verdict: A great game but the technical issues and graphics stop the PC version from being a almost 
 perfect gaming experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sumerboy
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 18, 2005 7:51 pm PT
Review:  and i hope i see alot of sharing in this great site and i think we have no thing if didnt know 
 this site i know this site by my dear friend he tell me about it and then i opened it and enjoy 
 . when i play grand sheft auto i cant feelin the time when passed i still try to finished it but 
 i know i have alot of mission to complet it .thank u again for this great site and am pleased to 
 be one of the time who work in this site . i have one problem but i dond think its too big . my 
 languge is arabic and my english is poor but i can get and under stand alot of word in this site 
 but i mean why u didnt set an arabic section for arab may you say why i do that to attach many 
 visator to your site and make it famous 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puuulamea
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2005 11:36 am PT
Review:  extraordinary game, the best game i have ever played ! 
  Welcome to the all new GTA-SanAndreas. com site. This site is here to provide up to date information 
 on the newest Grand Theft Auto game, San Andreas. The site originally started on February 17, 2003 
 based on rumours and speculation, and after over a year of working with no content, the game was 
 finally confirmed. Since then the site has gone through two different layouts, and is now settling 
 on this, the third design for the site. The site is updated daily and aims to be one of the best 
 resources for GTA: San Andreas information. Thanks for visiting and we hope you enjoy the site 
 and find everything useful. We also suggest using a screen resolution of 800x600 or 1024x768 to 
 view this site. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aiwass-Aeon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 15, 2005 1:37 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for my pc and found out after installing it wouldnt work it kept crashing on the 
 start up so after several hours of trying to fix this problem with no luck i took it back but i 
 have played this game on ps2 and it was great! i spend two weeks (8 hours a day) just doing the 
 missions i found theres alot to explore and alot to do. 
  
  you'll find yourself addicted to this game for a very long time!
  
  i was also interested in 
 the hot coffee mod but now there is/has been a big song and dance about it. the game is R18 and 
 Porn is R18 so are the people that kicked up a stink about it saying adults cant look at porn in 
 games because of the "realistic" (LOL) graphics?!?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: missle_launcher
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 15, 2005 7:38 am PT
Review:  Gamely:
  This is one of the coolest games I have ever played. Its also one of the longest. There are allot 
 of different cars you can drive you can swim fly planes drive boats. Its fun.
  
  Graphics:
  San Andreas has pretty good graphics but that is not what makes this game fun. Graphics 
 of vehicles is good. There is better scenery than GTA 3 and Vice City put together.
  
  Sound:
  Same as graphics GTASA has pretty good sound but thats not what makes this game fun. 
 The sound is much better then the first two though. The car sounds allot better as well as the 
 voices.
  
  Value:
  I dont really have to say much but this game has some of the best value.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt:
 
  Same as value look at any major game sight and San Andreas get at least a 9.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kocka
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 15, 2005 2:54 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing! Probably the best in the series!
  
  Gameplay
  I gave 10 to the gameplay, because its great! The story is interesting, but it was pretty short. 
 There's many ways to do a mission, and after you accomplish one, you can freely cruise around the 
 whole city, or the whole country, on foot or with many kinds of vehicles: cars, bicycles, motorbikes, 
 ships and boats, airplanes and helicopters, etc...
  When I completed the main missions, I completed the game's 63%. After that, it was so much time 
 to complete the game to 100%. I had to ship deliveries, win races, complete driving and other kind 
 of schools.
  
  Graphics
  I gave 9 to the graphics, because it nice, but not outstanding in 2005. If you set the graphics 
 level to Very High, it's reasonably cool! You'll see dynamic shadows, and nice lightning, and thing's 
 like that. The water is not really nice, but it's OK in my opinion.
  
  Sound
  The game's sounds are not really good, but the music is awesome! The sounds are clashing sometimes, 
 but the radios are cool! You can find all the styles of the early 90s! Hip-hop, rock, pop, talk 
 radios, and other sorts of music.
  
  So the game is awesome, you can do a lot of things! It feels like a new world, where you can do 
 almost everything! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeshwent
Rating: 7.4
Date: Oct 14, 2005 8:22 am PT
Review:  GTA: San Andreas was in news even before its release. First, the much ooh-ah hype and then a delay 
 of one week in its release date to remove the problem of glitches. What a waste it really was! 
 Because GTA: San Andreas contains more than a dozen of glitches the biggest one of it caused a 
 big controversy which resulted that people sued Rockstar. Now I am a real huge fan of Rockstar 
 as GTA: Vice City is my most favorite game and I was real shocked when I read all this things about 
 `Hot Coffee` glitch. This glitch resulted in some angry shouts of the people at the outbreak of 
 such outrageous thing which forced the ESRB officials to put the worst rating that a decent game 
 could ever receive, the AO (Adults Only) . Even some big game stores pulled out San Andreas from 
 their racks and in the end San Andreas ended as a major loss for Rockstar. But is GTA: San Andreas 
 is any good as a game? No Chance. GTA: San Andreas has some huge sound problems in PC as well as 
 the Xbox. The sound system gets completely faulty and the music of the radio stations sounds like 
 a Serious Sam music.
  
  As for the gameplay we might give San Andreas a chance. Overall it is not as good as we expected. 
 Maybe we cannot blame San Andreas for this because the only one to be blamed is our expectations 
 and hype. Maybe after the success of GTA 3 and Vice City we expected even greater things from San 
 Andreas. But still I cannot deny that San Andreas is a huge disappointment in terms of both the 
 characters and the storyline.
  
  The story is very boring from the beginning when there is a complete mayhem everywhere. The characters 
 are not nicely developed and their personality is quite weak. The real GTA characters were Salvatore 
 Leone, Toni Cipriani, and Ray Machowski etc. (in GTA 3) whereas in Vice City all the characters 
 were brilliantly created like Ricardo Diaz, Lance Vance, Ken Rosenberg and the old fool Sonny Forelli 
 etc. San Andreas may offer many characters, which includes some old one from GTA 3. San Andreas 
 jobs or missions are mostly related to vehicles and you will see very few blasting moments.
  
  But all these characters are the side part of the role. The main one is the protagonist or 
 the character, which you play as. Unfortunately San Andreas protagonist Carl Johnson or C. J is 
 quite weak both in looking and fighting. Tommy Vercetti was a dozen of times better than him in 
 all. Moreover, Carl Johnson in beginning looks pretty tough when he battles through the area of 
 Ballas (a rival gang) . 
  
  The enemy AI is pretty loose and it looks like we are facing some zombies who just wander around. 
 Another thing I mentioned in my Vice City for PC review is that Vice City did not allow us to develop 
 relations with a female character like the totally beautiful Mercedes Cortez in Vice City. San 
 Andreas does allows us to date with a few particular girls but in a real boring sort of manner. 
 You will be taking a girl to eat and just dance and then thats it. Rockstar might have taken 
 my comment even more seriously that they have developed a sort of attraction for all female characters 
 towards C. J. It looks like that you are using the cheat FANNYMAGNET in Vice City. As for those 
 girls onlookers the girlfriends of C. J. are not too good. Maybe C. J you should consult a chat site 
 and talk and make some better friends.
  
  YawnAfter this long review in which I have done nothing but just criticized San Andreas. 
 So, if you are planning to buy San Andreas I would suggest that you just take a sneek peek in to 
 my review. As they say that always consult a friend before taking any step. So consult my review 
 because I am your friend am I not????
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nafarsadik
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 13, 2005 1:31 pm PT
Review:  I mean really WOW. This game has it all and it sure was worth the wait! that I can guarentee. I've 
 been playing this game for 2 months now and I still can't get enough, all of you guys familiar 
 with the GTA series would know what I'm talking about. The game has a HUGE replayability potential, 
 the story is very good and the caracters very well thought out.
  I particularly enjoyed the gang wars over territory thingy, hehe i mean blasting out those fool 
 right off the streets and taking their turf (while making some $ in the process) is exactly my 
 thing ;)
  I would not have enough time to describe everything new in the game but I would DEFENITLY give 
 2 (if not more) thumbs up!
  All of you guys (weither you're familiar or not with the series) just get out that door and go 
 buy the thing, you won't regret it I promise!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aerobee
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 12, 2005 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Well, this game cant really be described better than the score.
  It is really a fantastic game - if you thought vice city was big, then think again.
  There is 
 hours ahead just trying to see the whole map.
  You simply can not just play this game for a few hours and then see the whole map like you could 
 in vice city. Fantastic...
  And all the new cars, mopeds and bikes, you cant try em all in just a few hours. To put this in 
 a few words, rip out MANY hours of your schedule if you want to get the full experience of GTA 
 San Andreas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adaptorrr
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 12, 2005 9:53 pm PT
Review:  Personally I loved gta san andreas more than any other game in the gta series. I loved all the 
 new features in the game. Flying was a little tough at first but after geettin full flying skill 
 its a breeze. I love the fact that the game gives u a hydra to keep for yourself. I just love flying 
 with the hydra and blasting evrything in sight. Also the game has a lot of value. I spent far more 
 time on this game then I did on vice city .Also swimming was a really great new addition. It was 
 so frustrating to accidentally fall into the water in vice city after completing a tough mission. 
 One thing I didnt like so much about the game were the radio stations. There are no talk shows 
 except for WCTR and even that wasnt as funny as VCPR in vice city. Also the fact that the distance 
 between the cities was so much was really annoying. The planes and helicopters are not easily available 
 from safe houses (except for madd doggs mansion) . But the BESTEST part of the game was gang wars. 
 I just loved that. I raised all my weapon skills with dat and I got lot of ammo before the final 
 mission before that. I also love GYM. This is very impresive game..... every body should buy this.. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olly91
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 12, 2005 2:28 am PT
Review:  Personally I loved gta san andreas more than any other game in the gta series. I loved all the 
 new features in the game. Flying was a little tough at first but after geettin full flying skill 
 its a breeze. I love the fact that the game gives u a hydra to keep for yourself. I just love flying 
 with the hydra and blasting evrything in sight. Also the game has a lot of value. I spent far more 
 time on this game then I did on vice city and gta 3 combined. Also swimming was a really great 
 new addition. It was so frustrating to accidentally fall into the water in vice city after completing 
 a tough mission. One thing I didnt like so much about the game were the radio stations. There 
 are no talk shows except for WCTR and even that wasnt as funny as VCPR in vice city. Also the 
 fact that the distance between the cities was so much was really annoying. The planes and helicopters 
 are not easily available from safe houses (except for madd doggs mansion) . But the BESTEST part 
 of the game was gang wars. I just loved that. I raised all my weapon skills with dat and I got 
 lot of ammo before the final mission before that. 
  
  I think that this is a game. It fully deserved the 9.6 it got or maybe even more. I hope rockstar 
 can come up wth an even better game for the future. Im waiting. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2k_rammerizkool
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 25, 2005 8:21 pm PT
Review:  I actually bought a DVD-ROM just so i could play this, and i was really excited when i started. 
 However, there are some problems with this game that REALLY ruin it.
  
  First off, whenever i go inside a building, it just freezes. I cant Alt-tab, control-alt-delete, 
 or control-escape out when it does this, and it always corrupts my save file. I deleted my SA save 
 folder, and re-installed, then installed the patch, hoping it would fix this bug. Unfortunately, 
 it didnt. So now, this game mostly sits at my brother's computer, which it works fine on.
  
  Second, the audio cuts out for no reason. The only thing there is, is the radio. In cutscenes, 
 the subtitles just flash for a second. In that one mission where you have to kill all these Ballas, 
 but keep the car's health up, i didnt realize i was actually supposed to make sure the car didnt 
 explore because of this bug. I thought i had to kill some other car, but when the health got lowered 
 all the way, and MY car caught on fire, i realized what i was actually supposed to do. Its bugs 
 like this that ruin the game for me.
  
  Despite these problems, the game is fun (when it doesnt lock up, anyway) and putting the flying 
 car cheat on with riot mode is hilarious, especially when you see cop cars flying around , in an 
 attempt to catch some "crook". The graphics are great, although the hands are still something of 
 a problem, the story is pretty good, sounds are a little lame (especially for the pistol) , but 
 the music is just plain awesome!
  
  In conclusion, Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas is fun, but needs to get rid of these BUGS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 21, 2005 6:03 am PT
Review:  When the previews for Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas hit the trades, I was a bit skeptical. Strength 
 training? Swimming? Dating? First thing I asked myself was, "When did Rockstar buy the rights to 
 The Sims?". But for all of these changes, GTA: San Andreas is an even more compelling game than 
 its predecessors. 
  
  As with all the other GTA games, this game takes place in a certain period of time, the 90's to 
 be exact. You are put into the shoes of Carl "CJ" Johnson, recently of Liberty City. You have been 
 called home because your mom was killed in a shooting. You had left five years earlier trying to 
 get out of some trouble and escape the death of one of your brothers. From the get go, you are 
 put into a plot that takes some turns and really takes you all over the place. And when I say it 
 takes you all over the place it does.
  
  This leads into the first big change in the GTA series. And that is the size of the map. The area 
 covered in this game is immense. You have three whole cities here to explore, plus a lot of outback 
 area between each city. It is quite amazing. You could cruise around for hours without ever getting 
 into a mission. But it would not be a GTA game without a bunch of missions.
  
  And the missions cover a gamut of situations and locations. You will fly planes, drive cars, ride 
 BMX bikes, hovercraft while tackling such missions as driving a decoy mission while trying to make 
 sure no one finds out you are driving the car. Lose a door and the mission is all over, because 
 they will see you. Or having to scare someone that is tied to the hood of your car by driving fast 
 and crazy, but not hitting anyone, otherwise he dies and the mission is over. Or my favorite, trying 
 to break into the equivalent of Area 51. It is really amazing how many mission types and variations 
 there are for you to work on and complete. 
  
  The NPC characters you meet are a mixed bag. The girls that you have to date (yes, you now can 
 date women that you meet in the game) are rather blah. Michelle in paticular drives me insane with 
 her ramblings. But the main characters are fleshed out quite nicely. Samuel L. Jackson puts in 
 a great performance as Officer Tenpenny, MC Eiht does a great turn as the Eazy E. lookalike, Ryder, 
 Peter Fonda as The Truth, James Woods as Torino, but the star of the show is up and coming rapper 
 Young Maylay as CJ. He really does the lines well and works the material nicely while not overdoing 
 it. I think this was a wise career move for him as he did a great job.
  
  Graphically, the game is definitely showing sigs of age. Most current graphic cards just eat this 
 game for breakfast. I ran it on a 6800GT and never had a stutter with all effects turned on. But 
 this is due to the fact that it was a PS2 game first, PC second. There are some cool effects like 
 heat shimmers, rain and dust storms. Also, the draw distance is really good on the PC in comparison 
 to the consoles. But the biggest difference is that the game just looks brighter and clearer on 
 a PC than on a PS2. The city did not look as brown and ugly on my screen as it did on my TV. The 
 same glitches graphically are here as they were in previous GTA games. Moderate clipping and some 
 off kilter physics at times. But overall, the graphics are pretty good.
  
  Sound is good as well. The weapons all sound like the real deal and actually have kick to them. 
 When you fire off a shotgun, you hear a good blast, and it kicks you back a few inches. It was 
 a nice touch. Cars sounded a bit tinny, but that can be overlooked. The soundtrack unfortunately 
 is all over the place. While it was tight and focused in Vice City, the selections here range from 
 good to eh, what were they thinking! Playback FM, Radio Los Santos and CSR all work well. Bounce 
 FM sort of fits in, but the rest of the channels seem like they were just grabbing at straws. I 
 only really listened to Rap in the 90's, so I could be wrong, but I found myself listening to a 
 custom soundtrack rather than the built in music, which was a first for me. And yes, you still 
 can import your own MP3 soundtrack, and in a nice touch, they even insert commercials in between 
 your tracks.
  
  The bad thing about this game and all other GTA games still apply. The graphics are low end for 
 a PC game, clipping is still a big issue and you just lose focus sometimes. The focus thing is 
 a big issue for me, because with a game of this size, you can just lose your direction and just 
 get off of the missions. While this can be good, it just get you out of a groove if it happens 
 continuously. But these are all minor complaints, and can be overlooked due to all the positives 
 the game brings.
  
  Overall, this installment of the GTA series brings a lot of great stuff to the table. It still 
 has not fixed all the bugs, but the sandbox that you are presented with will more than make up 
 for any of the things I mentioned above. For what you are paying, you will get a whole lot of bang 
 for your buck. I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freddy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 20, 2005 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Let's look back and see what has changed in Grand Theft Auto San Andreas from Vice City and Liberty 
 City.
  
  Bicycles... nice...
  
  More vehicles and health duties like working out and eating right... ouch; nice.
  
  Ok let's 
 be real here folks, GTA series is turning out to be a good book to read. Liberty City had you running 
 from the Mafia's that portrait movies like Goodfellas, Heat and Carlitos way. Vice City's only 
 upgrade was riding a motor cycle and having Tommy control the whole City as Tony Montana did to 
 Florida. Now we come down to San Andreas which is based off of gang members in California which 
 we think of Colors and Boys N The Hood.
  
  I love GTA and of course I love this game. The sound is the best I've ever come across in video 
 games and the game play could be better. The only thing that keeps this game from being on the 
 top looking down is graphics. Seriously Rockstar, could you have at least given the extra effort 
 and tried to upgrade the graphics for your final hoorah on the PS2 and Xbox before entering NexGEN?
 
  
  Check your wallet can you afford it? If not, you better save up because this game is highly worth 
 it. Just don't be disappointed that there arent much upgrades and the only thing that sticks out 
 is the story being different. You will still love GTA: SA.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: litledog1
Rating: 2.2
Date: Sep 19, 2005 2:41 pm PT
Review:  I'm afraid I can't say it better than a fellow reviewer, 'BrGabriel', and I can do nothing more 
 than quote his last paragraph which sums up the game completley: 
  
  "The key elements of the game - guns, lots of vehicles, limited plot and girls in skimpy outfits 
 is clearly aimed at the just pre-pubescent market - for most others it will probably come across 
 as stereotyped, immature, shallow and (worst of all) tedious - which in undoubtedly is.
  
  I suspect this works better on a console where both the equipment and the player base are a great 
 deal less demanding, but as a PC game its not. How on earth anyone could want to continue playing 
 this to its conclusion is beyond me - its a kiddies game for console kiddies and really should 
 have stayed in that format."
  
  
  As for the 'better' controls on the PC version that the rediculous gamespot review is talkign about. 
 I don't see them! You can't evenuse the number pad to drive the car - no. pad 5 can't be mapped. 
 The controls are either too laggy or too responsive. The car driving is rediculous unles you have 
 a gamepad i'm guessing - and then why do you own a PC if you want to use it like a console?!
  
  Its more of the same: same old graphics, same repetative missions (which frankly i had had 
 enough of by the end of GTA 3) , and the same bad voiceacting and 'story'. It's just plain annoying 
 to have lots of 'cool' guys from 'da hood' shooting people all day. As an inteligent PC gamer I 
 want originality from time to time. And to think its made in England. It saddens me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deinbeck
Rating: 4.7
Date: Sep 18, 2005 9:03 am PT
Review:  In my mind, as a serious video game enthusiast, a main stream gaming site like Gamespot giving 
 this game such a high review is ludicrous. This game is the epitome of what is wrong with the modern 
 video game industry.
  
  Lets sum this game up, seriously. Lets look at everything the GTA franchise has ever done. Piss-poor 
 gameplay. Selling the idea that crime is cool.
  
  Don't get me wrong, the subject matter isn't even what I truly hate about this, and all GTA games. 
 The fact that they are crappy games and people just buy them for the subject matter is my major 
 gripe.
  
  This is crap people, look at the actual gameplay. Look at the graphics. Garbage.
  
  If you're 
 sick of seeing this filler trash on shelves, do what I do. Vote with your dollars. Don't give these 
 people your money. Rockstar certainly doesn't deserve it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichardW331
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 5, 2005 10:48 am PT
Review:  GTA has been a great game since is ever first saw the shops, and as the years pass by, it doesnt 
 get worse. In fact it gets better, Absolutely no bugs at all, did take quite a while to come out, 
 but still, it was worth it.
  GTA San Andreas needs quite a decent PC to play, but not as good for BF2.
  
  So, about the 
 game itself
  
  Its engaging, it makes you want to play it right to the end, it makes you feel as though your in 
 the game and that you have continue to get better. Drive cars boats planes heli's and even cycles 
 motorbikes. K3wl, speed around continueously around the docks of GTA, get slobber, get gunned, 
 get caught, and get **** ~ed ( sorry )
  
  LOL, it is very funny that the game has actually been banned in some country because of this.
 
  
  There is nothing much else to say about this except it's just a fantastic build up to the whoel 
 game, environments are nicely done, there is a real world out there, so get to it.
  
  Its gotta be worth a try, i did, and i was satisfied well. im sure you would.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andremafia
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 31, 2005 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto series continues with this: GTA: San Andreas. The game takes place in the early 
 90's and this time is in a great State, San Andreas, the State has 3 main cities, Los Santos inspired 
 in Los Angeles, San Fierro inspired in San Francisco and Las Venturas inspired in Las Vegas, each 
 city has the size of GTA: Vice Citie map so the San Andreas map is 3 times bigger than in Gta: 
 Vice City. 
  Once again you play the role of a guy trying to find his footing in a city full of violent gangs 
 and bent cops, only this time its not by choice. You play as Carl Johnson "CJ" a former member 
 of "The Grove Street Families" gang, who chose to take a life away from the gang bangin and violence, 
 and escaped to Liberty City. Five years later and CJ returns to Los Santos when he hears the tragic 
 news of his mothers death, the result of a gang related shooting.
  
  Now back in Grove Street, CJ sees the trouble that his family and friends are involved in, and 
 sees they need help.
  
  Leaving the airport CJ is "welcomed" by the local cops and is framed for murdering a police officer. 
 This series of events means that CJ will be around to offer that help... 
  
  The game has lot's of missions that promise some hours spend on completing the missions and sub-missions. 
 A new mini-game was added, this mini-game is Gang wars, now at Los Santos your gang has a territory 
 which must be defended, you can conquer territory from your enemy's gangs, you can recruit gang 
 members to help you conquering new territory.
  
  Another thing added to the game was the ability of your character to swim, this is great because 
 now you don't have to worry of falling to water, die and lose a mission (again!)
  
  The best added thing was the stats, yes, now your character has to eat and go to the gym. You can 
 have your CJ has a great fat guy or a master piece of muscle. You can buy lot's of clothes to fully 
 customize your character...
  
  
  This his the best GTA till now, so it's a good game to add to your collection.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 22, 2005 12:54 pm PT
Review:  If you could make a list of the most influential games ever made, the last three iterations of 
 the Grand Theft Auto series would have to be pretty near the top. They have combined open-ended 
 gameplay, massive breadth, biting satire, and highly polished action in a way that has been imitated, 
 but never matched. The latest game, Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas, takes the legendary series in 
 a new direction while maintaining the feel of the previous two. Its a terrific game in its own 
 right, although it has a few flaws that keep it from reaching the lofty heights of Vice City. Compared 
 to most other games on any platform though, San Andreas is superb and easy to recommend. 
  
  Its hard to describe why this series is so outstanding. Is it just the violence? No way. This 
 is a great series because nothing else out there gives you a gigantic R-rated sandbox to play in 
 like the Grand Theft Auto series does. Its like being on vacation a 400 square mile amusement 
 park. There is so much to do and so much to see, and you can take as much time as you want to do 
 it. The story and missions provide structure if you want it. If not, you can wander around and 
 find hidden items like unique jumps. Or, you could make a bit of extra cash by stealing a taxi 
 or an ambulance. 
  
  San Andreas continues some of the great precedents set by Rockstars other games. The voice acting 
 is great and there is a huge number of sound bites to go with it all. The satire of American culture 
 is as clever and funny as ever, especially the ads that play for Ammu-nation. There is a lot of 
 chatter between you (C. J.) and your buddies during each mission, and thats pretty funny too. Like 
 the previous games, there is huge variety of missions to take upon, and a lot of different ways 
 to complete them. 
  
  If youre worried about playing the same old Grand Theft Auto though, then stop worrying. This 
 game has a few substantial differences from the previous two games. The first and foremost difference 
 is that the gameworld is much larger. Its absolutely huge in this game. More than two times the 
 size of either GTA 3 or Vice City (note that two times the size does not necessarily mean two times 
 the content. More on that later) . There are three big cities, and a huge, open countryside connecting 
 them. Each city has its own unique look and feel, which gives you the feeling that this is like 
 three miniature GTA games. The countryside provides wide open space and small town feel that acts 
 like a whole extra city. 
  
  The best part of this game is its missions, and like the previous two games, it has some terrific 
 ones. It amazes me how Rockstar can continue to create such fun missions for each game. The missions 
 have you doing everything -- driving, shooting, flying, and swimming, or any combination of those. 
 If you fail the first time, there's usually some way of trying it different the next time.
  
  San Andreas has a lot more minigames than the previous two, and it also has some light RPG 
 elements, like your stamina and your weapons skills. You can buy new clothes and you can get new 
 haircuts. You can go to the gym and lift weights, or you can go to your girlfriends house and 
 take her out on a date. This game has a home invasion stealth minigames that goes alongside the 
 taxi, police, and ambulance minigames. The best new minigame though is taking over gang territories. 
 After you have completed a few missions, you can start increasing the size of your gang by starting 
 gang wars in enemy territory. After defeating a few waves of enemies, you take over the territory 
 and it starts to generate an income from you. 
  
  Most of San Andreas is also noticeably easier than Vice City. During missions that require lots 
 of shooting, the game frequently gives you a bulletproof vest and/or a health power up to help 
 you through. This is quite different from the other games, which would force you mostly to find 
 those on your own. The missions also seem shorter and less prone to getting the cops onto your 
 tail. The races are a lot easier, because the other cars are not as fast and aggressive. In GTA3 
 and Vice City, I failed just about every mission the first time. In this game, I completed at least 
 half of them the first time. If you ask me, there isn't one mission in this game that I absolutely 
 hated. Even the infamous "supply lines" mission took me maybe only five tries, which isn't that 
 bad.
  
  The best new feature of this game, however, is its story. The story for GTA 3 was nonexistent, 
 and for GTA: Vice City it was forgettable. For San Andreas, however, its actually pretty good. 
 And by good, I mean good for just any game, and not just compared to other Rockstar games.
  
  While this game is brilliant in its own way, it also feels as if something is missing here 
 and there. San Andreas, at times, feels more tedious and less addictive than its predecessors. 
 For starters, the graphics engine is badly outdated. Its almost the exact same engine that powered 
 the previous two games on what is now five year old hardware. Even with max draw distance, this 
 game still suffers horribly from pop-up. The art direction is terrific, but it cannot hide the 
 games blocky characters and low-res environments.
  
  San Andreas also feels overly minigame heavy, and it lacks some of the nice features of previous 
 games. Buying properties isnt as much fun as it was in Vice City, because most properties dont 
 earn an income for you anymore. There are no rampages or secret packages anymore. Instead, there 
 are tags to spray paint and hidden oysters to find, but you get no reward for doing it. This is 
 a recurring theme in San Andreas: tons and tons of minigames and collections on the side that are 
 mostly pointless unless you are going for a 100% completion rating. San Andreas would have been 
 better with more missions and less hidden item collection.
  
  One extremely annoying feature of San Andreas is that the cop population seems to have been tripled. 
 The cops are much more touchy and aggressive in this game, which severely limits what you can do 
 during your missions. This may sound like it adds a fun element of challenge to the game, but it 
 is more annoying and tedious than anything. The games lengthier challenges almost always end up 
 earning you a two or three star wanted level and after a while, it becomes aggravating and not 
 fun.
  
  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas has tons of space, but it feels a lot emptier this time around. The 
 game world might be twice as big, but there isnt twice as much content to fill it with. Searching 
 every nook and cranny for hidden goodies isnt as fun or rewarding as it used to be. Eating is 
 a nuisance and adds basically nothing to the game,, and exercising is a simple button-mashing affair 
 that doesnt add much either. 
  
  The game also attempts to add some rudimentary squad mechanics by allowing you to recruit fellow 
 gang members. However, this feature is essentially broken because of terrible friendly AI. I didnt 
 like the radio stations nearly as much as the previous two games either. In keeping with the Boys 
 in the Hood theme, the radio is dominated by rap and R&B. The alternative station has some weak 
 song selections and the talk radio station isnt as funny as the ones in Vice City. The techno 
 station is absolutely terrible. When you combine this problem with an annoying audio bug that causes 
 most of the sound to disappear from time to time, the audio with San Andreas has some big problems.
 
  
  All of these faults are enough to offset the improvements in San Andreas and keep it from ranking 
 as highly as Vice City, but they shouldnt make you think that this is not a game worth playing. 
 The best stuff is still there. The missions are fun and varied, and the content feels infinite. 
 Before you know it, you will have spent over sixty hours driving, shooting, and getting paid, 
 and you still wont be finished. This game is still terrific, and its still fun to roam through 
 the world exploring and experimenting. There is still only one Grand Theft Auto series, and at 
 the end of the day, San Andreas makes for an excellent addition to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maggiisthebest
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 21, 2005 12:06 am PT
Review:  Loaded with gameplay and still as fun as ever. But the graphics can be underwhelming. Some mini-games 
 are under-cooked
  I'm halfway thru the game and its a heck of a lot of fun -- easily as good as the previous 2 GTA 
 games. 
  
  However, the graphics engine truly looks like the 5 years old engine that it is. Graphically, it 
 barely passes. There's no bumpmapping or real-time light sourcing. The static colored lights under 
 the traffic lights at night-time looks like something from a Playstation 1 game.
  
  Controls on the PC version have the advantage of the precision of mouse and keyboard for on-foot 
 shooting. But the console controllers are still far and way the best for driving mode. Overall, 
 I'd have to say I prefer the XBOX version over the PC version, simply because the PC keybaord isn't 
 ideal for this type of game.
  
  The style of the game is fantastic and almost makes up for the aged graphics. The voice acting 
 is great. 
  
  This time around, GTA is about gangs, drugs, and gang warfare. The "n" word is used liberally in 
 the cut-scenes. Its a game, so I dont take any of this seriously. But you will find the story-line 
 starts to make less and less sense the further you get into the game. Why does the main chracter 
 refuse to use drugs when everyone around him is a user and he quite happy to be a self-interested 
 thief and a killer? Never explained. Why is everyone in the gang older than 25 years old? Completely 
 unrealistic and never explained. 
  
  Some of the mini-games are more fleshed out than others. You can still buy businesses as in Vice 
 City, but it seems like an after-thought in this game. You can be a burgler and steal stuff from 
 homes, but you quickly realize this mini-game was barely thought through. Every apt looks the same 
 inside. The fitness options at the gym are too easy to max out in 10 minutes time so what's the 
 point of having that in the game at all? The RPG elements of the game aren't that important to 
 the gameplay. There's more fist-fighting moves but you'll never use them, especially later in the 
 game when everyone is shooting guns at you.
  
  Still, the overall gameplay is undeniably FUN. If you dont have an XBOX, I give a cautious recommendation 
 for the PC version when the price goes down in a month or 2. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrGabriel
Rating: 4.6
Date: Aug 14, 2005 4:14 pm PT
Review:  After the rave reviews this game had received, I had really looked forward to this coming out on 
 the PC. Having just spent 5 hours trying to give it a fair go I am almost at the point of uninstalling 
 it and taking it back. Its not just that the way the PC interface is put together is both un-intuitive 
 and clumsy. Its more that the whole game combines repetitive storylines, superficial plot, graphics 
 that are at best average, and a sense of total pointlessness to the action that makes it bloody 
 tedious to play. I mean how many times did the developers think it would be interesting to go out 
 with your "homies" and drive around shooting things.
  
  Missions are horribly scripted - being made of up of little but, talk to your homies, look at the 
 map, spot the targe marker, drive there, shoot it, drive your homies ... eeerr... home. That's it.
 
  
  Oh yes - and there's the supposedly "immersive" day to day stuff like going to the gym to bulk 
 up. Beleive me - clicking on a set of weights and then spending the next five minutes alternately 
 clicking 'space' and 'LMB' may get you the points on the muscles index - but it's REALLY, REALLY 
 DULL.
  
  In addition, the lack of realism is awful, the traffic wanders about and gets jammed, often up 
 against police vehicles, the shoot outs seem to attract minimal police interest, bad guys magically 
 appear, ready to be shot up. I could go on, but would myself start to become as repetitive as the 
 game.
  
  The key elements of the game - guns, lots of vehicles, limited plot and girls in skimpy outfits 
 is clearly aimed at the just pre-pubescent market - for most others it will probably come across 
 as stereotyped, immature, shallow and (worst of all) tedious - which in undoubtedly is.
  
  I suspect this works better on a console where both the equipment and the player base are a great 
 deal less demanding, but as a PC game its not. How on earth anyone could want to continue playing 
 this to its conclusion is beyond me - its a kiddies game for console kiddies and really should 
 have stayed in that format. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Herenr
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 8, 2005 11:32 pm PT
Review:  What initially spurred me to write a review on this game was one of the previously, laughably sad 
 reviews (the one that gave it a perplexingly low 3.0) that was obviously written by someone who 
 either hasn't played the game, an old republican (considering how offended he was by the supposedly 
 gratuitous sexual aspects) , an idiot, concerned parent, or someone who is extremely bored. Shame 
 really.
  
  Hopefully my review will not be a "total-letdown".
  
  Gameplay: Nothing to say here that hasn't been stated a million times already. It is nothing short 
 of pure excellence. The game is filled with an innumerable amount of things to do, even without 
 factoring the excellent mission based campaign. Carl can go to the gym to lose weight or gain muscle, 
 and can even learn a new fighting style (after laying the smack down on the instructor in hand-to-hand 
 combat) , which he can use to better defeat his opponents. You can go to the numerous driving schools 
 (each catered to a specific vehicle) to better his abilities in controlling each vehicle better 
 (it's not mandatory to go to the schools to develops skills, but it is much efficient) . He can 
 go to shooting ranges at particular ammunation shops in order to better his skills at using fire-arms. 
 All this helps to create a small rpg effect that helps increase the quality of the game. Instead 
 of chasing after ridiculous hearts to heal as in it's predecessors, healing is almost completely 
 restricted to eating at fast food restaurants. If carl eats too much of the wrong food he gets 
 fat, if he eats too light he'll get hungry quicker, which (if not acted upon quickly) results in 
 lose of muscle, fat, and (extreme scenario) health. Carl can purchase a large of variety of cloths 
 and haircuts to satisfy almost anyone's taste. The aiming and fighting controls have been dramatically 
 improved and are much more accessible, not to mention less aggravating. Carl can now grab on to 
 ledges and pull himself up, and now possesses the much needed ability to swim, thus no more drowning 
 in five feet water!!!! Yay!!! He can still drown though if left under water too long. But, like 
 almost everying else that requires skill, Carls breathing skills can be improved by practice; One 
 mission isn't even playable until you've reached a certain skill level in swimming. When you reach 
 Las Venturas you can gamble at the casinos. The game world is unbelievably large, and it's almost 
 impossible not to be impressed with it's size and scope. There's simply too much to do. You can 
 still purchase structures. People even make comments amount Carl's appeareance and Cars. Basically, 
 the game can only be fully realized by playing it (which you are hopefully doing!!) . You now even 
 rercuit members of your gang to follow you around, something I've been wanting ever since their 
 inclusion in Vice City. The storyline revolves around Carl Johnson in 1992, who returns home to 
 Los Santos, after spending five years in Libery City, to see his murdered mothers funeral, but 
 is unable to attend when he waylaid by the corrupt officer Tenpenny and his lacky Pulanski and 
 framed for the murder of another officer, which Tenpenny had killed. He then returns home to find 
 his turf overrun by a gang called The Ballers, and his gang, Grove Street, in serious decline (later 
 in the game you will fight to reclaim the lost turf, which will pay a handsome fee every few hours, 
 the more land, the higher the fee) , the game then turns Carl from an lowly thug, into a strong, 
 intelligent gangster. The games story is very diverse, with the hood aspects playing side role 
 to many others. The game is nothing short of perfect.
  
  Graphics: Nothing special here. It won't dethrown HL 2, F. E. A. R., or Doom 3 anytime soon, but it's 
 not bad when you realize how detailed the world is.
  
  Sound: The the number of the radio stations is diverse. There is Play Back Fm (old school rap) , 
 K-Rose (country) , K-DST (rock) , Bounce FM (disco?) , Sf-UR (house music) Radios Los Santos (gangsta 
 rap) , Radio-x (uniques rock?) , CSR 103.2 (RnB/ New Jack) , K-Jah West (reggae) , Mater Sounds (classic 
 soul) , and WCTR (Talk radio) . The soundtrack (IMHO) is not on par with that of of Vice City, but 
 this may be a result of this period in music, or simply my taste. But that doesn't mean it doesn't 
 sound excllent, just that VC's soundtrack was consistent throughout. The game world sounds are 
 excellent of course, nothing sounded out of place. The people's comments, particularly the insulting 
 one's directed at Carl, are enjoyable to hear.
  
  Overall, this game is ridiculously addictive and worth every penny. If you don't enjoy it, then 
 something's seriously wrong. I'm sure a Barbie game is a more equitable purchase for your gaming 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lumpy3
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Where can i start? Great story, Great Gameplay, Great value, GREAT EVERYTHING. If you dont buy 
 this game, you should be imediatly taken to a mental hospital and be checked out. I have played 
 this game everyday since it has com out for pc. I am addicted to it!
  Every thing has been improved since the other games. there are so many cars, i havent even driven 
 them all! the planes are awsome, and you can even skydive out of them. you charicter is 100% costomizable, 
 his hair, his clothes, his tattoos, you can even go to the gym and work out to get your stats up. 
 There are now girls in which you can engage in physical relations with.
  There are so many missons too. It takes so long to beat this game, and thats a good thing! The 
 map in this game is MASSIVE! it took me so long just to learn my way around.
  This game i rediculusly good, and is a complete must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JumpingMirrior
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 29, 2005 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Ah yes, Grand Theft Auto.... A game that revolutionized the industry. A few days before every new 
 GTA comes out are filled with excitement. Gamers can't wait to beat up cops and run over people 
 in car. Is it still good times on the PC? Yes, yes it is.
  After some gang fighting and violence, Our hero CJ, leaves the hood' to avoid some of the violence 
 alone and let it die down. Now its 1992, you decide to come back to your hood' and want to come 
 back to your homies. Over the 5 years you've been gone, Your mother gets killed ( In the game. ) 
 when you come back to town, you get falsely accused by the police. Not starting off good, is it?
 
  This game has a lot of different changes. First off, YOU CAN SWIM! Secondly, you have weapons 
 skills. Depending how much you use a weapon, your skills with it go up. That makes you even more 
 death incarnate! Lastly are CJ's needs as i call them. You need to eat. You also need to work out 
 in a gym. This reminds me of the Sims. I don't like these elements and I'll tell you why... GTA 
 is suppost to be a different experence then other games. The fact the you do all this crazy unrealistic 
 stuff makes the games fun. Now you need to go to a gym to work out and find places to eat. In games 
 like Metal Gear Solid 3, i can under stand the eating thing. It makes since in that, but not in 
 GTA. Other then that, the game remains great, mostly. The PC version has 100% customizble controls. 
 It also allows you to use the mouse to aim your gun. This is much better then using a controller. 
 The game has a large amount of missions. So it isn't entirly killing. The problem is that the missions 
 are annoying. It features ALOT more racing missions, which i don't like. It also features airplane 
 missions. These are among the most annoying missions in ANY GTA game! Play the mission, "Supplylines" 
 and you'll see what i mean. Also try "N. O. E" The control of these planes are bad. At least in the 
 missions they are bad. The PC version also has glitchs. For example, in the end of the game, I 
 was in a fire fight.... All of a sudden bullets didn't damage me at all! That hurts the experence 
 a bit.
  The graphics are the best yet for a GTA game. While you can't compare it to Half Life 2, at least 
 actually look good! If you use a High Powered machine, you will get some very odd lip syncing problems 
 during cut scenes. And its pretty bad.
  The sound can go either way. Its fill of gangster rap. If you like that stuff, your in heaven. 
 I personally don't so i was stuck listening to Radio X and WCTR. SA features Rap, Rock, Country, 
 and your talk show like station.
  Not to mention the PC version supports mods. Theres a mod that allows you to play GTA SA ONLINE! 
 A big plus! This helps the games considerably.
  If these things don't bother you, you're in for a hell of a time. I still enjoyed SA, but it didn't 
 live up to the hype i feel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KKx2000
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 25, 2005 12:22 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas review by KKx2000
  Publisher: Rockstar Games
  Developer: Rockstar North
  Genre: Action
  
  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas came out October 
 last year for the Playstation 2. It was most likely the best game of the year, and now, San Andreas 
 makes it debut on the PC as well as the Xbox. Seeing as how the Playstation 2 version was so great 
 the question is how great are the PC and Xbox versions.
  
  The PC versions sure is full of problems, these problems are frequently spotted on PC games but 
 still, San Andreas is a really, really good game. The PC version could have been alot better, but 
 its still one of the best PC games of the year.
  
  Gameplay:
  The controls are alot different here from the console versions, seeing as you use a mouse and a 
 keyboard. Beeing able to aim manually with the mouse might be to some to easy, and at times it 
 is but i really like it. I loved the PS2 versions, but the auto-aim always took a little fun out 
 of the game. The PC versions allows you to target yourself and it really gives you some freedom. 
 The game plays quite well though despite some technical problems that you will most likely encounter 
 during your many hours of playing. Of course, San Andreas features a very good storyline like the 
 previous games and is very well written. The game offers a deal of surpireses as well as you go 
 along blasting heads defending the hood.
  
  The game certainly featuers alot of new things. First youll notice that you can ride bicycles. 
 Also does the game keep track of several statistics, such as muscle, stamina and respect. You also 
 have to eat regulary to keep your statistics in shape, but eating to much will increase your Fat 
 meter and in the end, youll get fat. You can also go to gyms where you can increase your muscle 
 and stamina and learn new fighting tactics. All this doesnt take as long as it sounds and it doesnt 
 make the game frustrating. Its actually fun getting your skills up and even more fun when you 
 see it was time well spent. Respect is also one of the games statistics. Respect can be gained 
 by completing missions. Respect can then be used to recruit gang members that can be useful sometimes. 
 The game also keeps track of your driving skills, motorcycles, bikes and your piloting skills. 
 A lot of things can be done here like; romancing your girlfriends to get invited for coffee, get 
 tattoos, new haircuts and then turf wars that allows you to take over blocks with your fellow gang 
 members. All these things are very fun and best of all, optional so they dont get in the way.
 
  9/10 [Features superb open ended gameplay and make for a great experience, AI needs some improvement.]
 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are unfortunately very outdated. Youd expect the graphics would be a big improvement 
 on the PS2 versions considering how long its been since it was released but really, thats not 
 the case. The GTA games seems to always be a bit behind in graphics, it would be nice to see some 
 new graphics. Especially after getting used to playing Half Life 2 and others. Other aspects of 
 the game are great, but you do wonder why the graphics always are Grand Theft Autos weakest link. 
 There have been some minor changes since the PS2 release, but still the game looks very outdated 
 compared to other new releases. Load times are only a few seconds which is a great improvement 
 from the PS2 version. But then again, a lot of effects dont seem too good on the PC versions and 
 some special effects caused some pretty annoying slowdowns.
  7/10 [A lot of technical problems and a bit outdated graphics]
  
  Sound:
  The sounds is (like 
 it was in Vice City) superb. Its absolutely fantastic; the game features some dozen radio stations 
 and some great music. It also features amusingly crazy DJs just like Vice City did. Also the radio 
 commercials have the same weird humour Vice City had and thats only to crank up the fun. The voice 
 acting is fantastic. Some of the names that gave their voices to crown this game are Samuel L. 
 Jackson and Chris Penn, Chuck D, George Clinton, Axl Rose. Gunfire and vehicles all sound great, 
 as youd expect. The environment around you also sounds impressive. Overall, the sound does a great 
 job of improving this fantastic game.
  9/10 [Fantastic voice acting and music make this game incredibly fun and the sound really lightens 
 up the games atmosphere.]
  
  Value:
  San Andreas is a game that will last you for many hours. Its fun, addicting and the game plays 
 incredibly well. After playing this game on the PC, I dont think Ill be playing it on a console 
 again. Obviously some aspects of the PC versions just arent fair to the console versions. Taking 
 into consideration that you can aim for yourself and therefore you can just aim for the head to 
 get a quick kill (provided your good at aiming of course) . Considering terrific voice acting, a 
 well written story and dialogue this game will keep you busy for hours if not more than that. Be 
 sure to check this one out.
  
  9.2 [A fantastic game that no one just slightly interested should miss.]
  
  [KKx2000, City 
 Of RPGs] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dryden555
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 18, 2005 2:28 pm PT
Review:  I'm halfway thru the game and its a heck of a lot of fun -- easily as good as the previous 2 GTA 
 games. 
  
  However, the graphics engine truly looks like the 5 years old engine that it is. Graphically, it 
 barely passes. There's no bumpmapping or real-time light sourcing. The static colored lights under 
 the traffic lights at night-time looks like something from a Playstation 1 game.
  
  Controls on the PC version have the advantage of the precision of mouse and keyboard for on-foot 
 shooting. But the console controllers are still far and way the best for driving mode. Overall, 
 I'd have to say I prefer the XBOX version over the PC version, simply because the PC keybaord isn't 
 ideal for this type of game.
  
  The style of the game is fantastic and almost makes up for the aged graphics. The voice acting 
 is great. 
  
  This time around, GTA is about gangs, drugs, and gang warfare. The "n" word is used liberally in 
 the cut-scenes. Its a game, so I dont take any of this seriously. But you will find the story-line 
 starts to make less and less sense the further you get into the game. Why does the main chracter 
 refuse to use drugs when everyone around him is a user and he quite happy to be a self-interested 
 thief and a killer? Never explained. Why is everyone in the gang older than 25 years old? Completely 
 unrealistic and never explained. 
  
  Some of the mini-games are more fleshed out than others. You can still buy businesses as in Vice 
 City, but it seems like an after-thought in this game. You can be a burgler and steal stuff from 
 homes, but you quickly realize this mini-game was barely thought through. Every apt looks the same 
 inside. The fitness options at the gym are too easy to max out in 10 minutes time so what's the 
 point of having that in the game at all? The RPG elements of the game aren't that important to 
 the gameplay. There's more fist-fighting moves but you'll never use them, especially later in the 
 game when everyone is shooting guns at you.
  
  Still, the overall gameplay is undeniably FUN. If you dont have an XBOX, I give a cautious recommendation 
 for the PC version when the price goes down in a month or 2. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 13, 2005 12:29 am PT
Review:  Oh. My. God. The best way to describe Rockstar Games newest chapter in the Grand Theft Auto saga 
 is to say Huge! If youre a dedicated player who simply must explore every nook and cranny of 
 a game world, and one who absolutely has to complete every side quest and bonus mission, and find 
 every hidden Easter Egg, then San Andreas will provide at least 150 hours of entertainment. Theres 
 so much to do and see in this fictional clone of 1990s California and Nevada, its impossible to 
 describe in one short review.
  
  The PC version of San Andreas is the best one. I sampled a bit of this game on the Xbox, and it 
 was obvious current generation consoles cant compete with the PC ports crisper, high-resolution 
 graphics. San Andreas on the computer nevertheless shows its console roots with blocky, low-polygon 
 models and architecture, but the frame rate is smoother, and the draw distance is much longer, 
 thus avoiding fog-of-war surprises and graphics pop-up. Loading times arent even a passing concern. 
 Plus, precision aiming with the mouse and keyboard is a snap compared to console gamepads. I've 
 read complaints about the PC version's poor car control with the keyboard... You know, gamepads 
 are available for computers too. A Logitech Wingman RumblePad works just fine.
  
  San Andreas on the PC also lets you configure your own custom in-game radio station by selecting 
 your favorite digital audio tracks. It will take a long time before you want to exercise this option, 
 because the included soundtrack is almost as expansive as the landscape. Another nice little PC 
 bonus is the ability to watch cinematic-style replays of particularly cool moments. The hard-bound 
 manual is just too cool.
  
  You start the game in Los Santos, an equivalent to Los Angeles. Later you unlock San Fierro (San 
 Francisco) and finally Las Venturas (Las Vegas) . But its not just urban areas that provide the 
 backdrop for your criminal shenanigans  the countryside contains small towns, farms, mountains, 
 lakes and rivers, beaches, desert and forest. Ive never visited Los Angeles or San Francisco, 
 but Las Vegas is a familiar stomping ground. In real life, I landed at McCarran International Airport, 
 toured the Hoover Dam, stayed at Circus Circus hotel, wandered up and down the famous Las Vegas 
 strip, and cruised the desert freeways of Nevada. All these recognizable landmarks are part of 
 San Andreas, which added to the thrill of playing this game. The only thing missing is Las Vegas 
 new monorail.
  
  Besides story missions, what can you do in San Andreas? Work out, eat fast food, car jack (of course) , 
 gamble, shoot hoops, play classic video games, fly helicopters and airplanes, date women (just 
 like real life, this process is a pain in the butt because theyre all high maintenance) , embark 
 on trucking excursions, burgle homes, swim, and race  in stadiums, on the road, off-road and on 
 mountains. It goes on and on. After finishing the story, Ive kept San Andreas on my hard drive 
 to merely enjoy the immersive pleasure of running around and doing stuff.
  
  Movies use music to establish mood and atmosphere, and San Andreas employs this technique effectively. 
 Instead of generic instrumentals, youre given classic funk, rap, rock, alternative, country and 
 house, all from established artists. Axl Rose, George Clinton and Chuck D even provide the voices 
 of DJs on three different stations. Chuck D from Public Enemy is amazing  he should host a radio 
 show in real life.
  
  Unfortunately, the fun of San Andreas for the PC is interrupted by a few technical difficulties. 
 The most galling is the games refusal to save your progress if your Windows XP user account name 
 includes  get this  a space. My user account identification is my actual name, and like everyone 
 else, a space separates my first and last names. For some reason, Rockstar didnt program their 
 PC port of San Andreas to work for people who employ common sense. After contacting Rockstars 
 technical support, I had to wait a week for their reply, which said I must rename my user account 
 to remove the space or any other special character. Moreover, this problem didnt occur in the 
 PC versions of Vice City or GTA III, so why did it happen with San Andreas? Theyre all made with 
 the same engine. This is inexcusable.
  
  The game also likes to crash once in awhile, which hurts after you spend a lot of time finding 
 hidden collectibles or performing repetitive tasks to build up your RPG-like stats, or to earn 
 ownership of a given property. You cant save on the fly, so crashes inevitably lead to a lot of 
 lost progress.
  
  But dont let these otherwise minor distractions dissuade you from investing in Grand Theft Auto: 
 San Andreas. Missions arent so frustratingly difficult as they were in the past, and the game 
 world is larger than anything Rockstar has presented before. The bottom line is that it will provide 
 you with hours and hours of awesome PC gaming goodness.
  
  By Phill "Sniper" Parker 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sakko
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 12, 2005 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Whether it's the immersion of the story line or the free for all killing sprees you like to participate 
 in, it seems GTA has a little something for everyone.
  
  Let's get the technical stuff out of the way. GTA: San Andreas is the most technically amazing 
 GTA in the series, being the latest installment obviously. It's feature list includes 3 full size 
 city's that transition without any loading screens (except for entering buildings, which is a mere 
 second or two. Including a highway system and rural areas as well. You may think you'd have a sparse 
 burger join here or there, but there are a bunch of little suburb villages around as well. It's 
 absolutely nutty. On a bike at full speed I'd estimate it would take you about 10-15 minutes at 
 top speed to drive from one city, to the next, the next, and back to your starting point.
  
  There are some new weapons this time around too. Silenced pistols which tie in with a new stealth 
 factor to the game (only in certain missions) , Tec-9's, AK-47's, new vehicles like a jetpack (!!!) , 
 Sikorsky chopper and a harrier jet!
  
  Now. Some problems with the game. In the PC version the audio is rather buggy as detailed in the 
 official GS review. You can usually get through a session without problems though.
  
  The story in my opinion is a little lacking. This kind of sucks cause being the biggest GTA game 
 to date, obviously the story is very big as well. With so much time and big name actors invested, 
 I was hoping for something a little more realistic. My problems with the story are basically that 
 you are a hard core thug, in a family of thugs, have no problem killing anyone who gets in your 
 way, but hate drug dealers? Why the feigned morality? It just doesn't make sense.
  
  Another annoyance is your character takes a lot of crap from people. You mow down dozens of people 
 in game, yet you turn into a harmless frightened kitten around others. One scenario in game finds 
 you doing jobs for some government goon who's got a family member in jail and won't let him out 
 until you do his bidding.
  
  This character goes so far as to tell you which jail, which wing, and which jail cell your family 
 member is in, yet for some reason you would rather go raid some top secret military installation. 
 To me the solution is simple, pop the goon in the head, drive to the jail, hose the entire place 
 down and bust out your homie!
  
  There are many other instances where the story really stretches it. I kind of compare this game 
 to others in the series and it sucks because Vice City had a great story line. Your character had 
 no morality issues, he was a thug through and through!
  
  Anyhow, the game is a lot of fun, technically amazing, but the story is a little weak.
  
  The 
 vitals please:
  
  Gameplay: Lots of stuff to do, lots of fun to be had while doing it!
  
  Graphics: The city graphics are stunning, but the characters could use some work. They are 
 rather jaggy and funky looking sometimes. Go to the strip club in Las Venturas to see what I mean.
 
  
  Sound: Bugged, but sounds great when it works.
  
  Value: This game has some pretty good replay value. You can go for the coveted 100% completion 
 or just play casually. Either way its fun to drive around and do funny stuff.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I had a lot of fun playing San Andreas and I'm a huge fan of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltACP
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 12, 2005 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Well i expected big things from this game with all the new exciting additions to the gameplay mechanics 
 but alas i was utterly dissapointed its pretty much just like any of the other GTAs. the additions 
 made effect the experience in a limited way and anyone can do em to make character better meaning 
 if you put in time you get most from your character. i found all the extra bits detracted overall 
 from the key gameplay and the insistance on doing crumby missions to proceed further is annoying/frustrateing. 
 they made it so you can do alot but only if you can be arsed doing what in my opinion are silly 
 missions i thought they would have made it much more open form as thats the way todays games are 
 going, also with the improve your character how you like they should have the do whatever you like 
 mission structure instead of simply having 3 or 4 missions open have all of em open an do the ones 
 you enjoy. the sound bug is really annoying-EAX? my card suports this but huh still cuts out after 
 30 mins play. the driving isnt fun to me anymore apart from the motorcycle, i cant be bothered 
 getting up to the flying parachuting bits cause the missions are dull and frustrating. oh the controls 
 are slightly better but the menus for buyng things are illogical why on earth dont they just list 
 an show prices instead of having to try everything on which takes ages making me lose favour with 
 my bird. anyway i may play an hour a day anymore and im fuming so for me this game isnt all that-i 
 prefer the much buggier boiling point and even thats can be exceptionally frustrating. oh and what 
 on earth is up with the graphics, i know my PC can do better than this, like 8bit textures and 
 everything is a simple box. the songs are poor versions with no umpff to em the only song that i 
 like is the tainted love one the rest are pale to the originals on a decent sound system (shame 
 you should be able to bass boost as a mod to your car. oh yeah and the low rider car is awful. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrlucky3
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 12, 2005 11:53 am PT
Review:  First when i got the game i was like holy s*** it's gta San Andreas but when i started it i was 
 disappointed because of the problems, first it was the lousy controls do i really have to push 
 the right and the left mouse button simultaneously to shoot?? And the sound problems i had to buy 
 a new sound card for this game to run it !
  The gameplay was just great, all the things you was able to do really boosted up the replay value 
 too but the controls was disastrous!
  Common its 2005 but wat the hell was that the graphics was really out of date but can you really 
 imagine this game with doom 3 engine but still the graphics are BAD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GFofgaming
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2005 7:30 am PT
Review:  What can I say? If there is one game franchise in the world ending up in the news for good and 
 bad reasons and is the basis for comparative study with other games is GTA. Even we find our parents 
 compare it with other games like This is just like GTA but... Grand Theft Auto III revolutionized 
 game play back in 2001 with free roaming around in a city which reflected modern time New York 
 City with production values never before in a video game. Then vice city (follow up to GTA III) 
 had a difficult task to up the standards of its predecessor and it definitely did. With a switch 
 back in time to the 80s with everything from clothes to music. It had a greater number of licensed 
 music tracks and great voice acting in radios and in the game. The story was much better than GTA 
 Iains linear one. So what does San Andreas done? It went with the motto Bigga is betta. Rockstar 
 kept its tradition and created a even more high quality game dubbed GTA San Andreas which not only 
 depicts 1 city, but an entire state!. It is about 6 times larger than Vice City and its story is 
 3 times longer, not to mention the licensed music of the hip-hop era.
  
  With GTA San Andreas, Rockstar approached the game as if aint broken dont fix it approach. Because 
 undoubtedly, no one can master the GTA formula as well as these guys. You still get to choose which 
 mission you would go for first and in any order (if you meet the requirements) . 
  
  So whats different apart from an entire state of wild action? A food system what else! Thats right, 
 dont be scared as it is only s small apart of the game. You need to eat once in a week in-game 
 time to keep up the energy, eat too less and you will be skinny, eat more and you will be fat and 
 have a heart attack, so its imp to find a right balance in it but it shouldnt be any problem. 
 You also get to exercise and learn new moves with the games much deeper combat mechanics than previous 
 franchises. You can customize your character with clothes, tattoos and even haircuts. There are 
 also lots of new vehicles in the game and unlike vice city... airplanes play a much bigger role 
 and are the transportation of choice in San Andreas. 
  
  So what the difference between the PS2 and the PC. The PC version has much greater draw distance 
 and much less loading time then the PS2 version. The PC version also supports antialiasing and 
 high resolution textures which add even more visual impact to an already impressive game. Though 
 the game falls about 2 years back in technical quality perspective, but the design of the entire 
 game is top-notch which is the thing that counts the most.
  
  The sound would have gotten 10 easily if only minor problems didnt occur in the game like missing 
 sound effects. Though you can easily fix it by going to the control panel  Sounds and Audio Devices 
  under speaker settings click Advanced Performance and make the slider to the basic.
  
  Overall its a great game!! I never felt this addicted in my entire life! And dont forget the 
 modding community of GTA. They will surely keep us entertained for the next few years until the 
 next GTA comes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamezmaster18
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2005 3:03 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas Is The #1 PC Game In America! You MUST Buy This Game! It Is Perfection 
 To Say The Least. If You Are Looking For A New Shooter/Action Adventure Game To Buy. Grand Theft 
 Auto: San Andreas Is The Game To Buy. The Massive City's With The Best Graphics You've Ever Seen 
 Makes Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas An Incredible Game. Even Though The Controls Are A Little Hard 
 To Use For Grand theft Auto: San Andreas On Pc, San Andreas Is Still Amazing. Also the Music On 
 This Game Is New and Great. The Bottom Line Is, Buy This Game! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: koukoo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 2, 2005 9:28 am PT
Review:  GTA San Andreas is the state of charm of the saga Rockstar, the chapter that better represents 
 the intention of the softwarehouse of to propose a virtual world credible and divertentissimo. 
 In little words: a masterpiece. All the features of the previous episodes are intended to the umpteenth 
 power, with much additions that yourselves terranno pawned for all of the summer. The edition Xbox 
 and PC present aesthetic improvements and in the controls, but I am porting that do not exploit 
 to fund the hardware on that arrive now, resulting substantially very like to the original version. 
 To ignore from this, GTA San Andreas remains an appointment imperdibile for who loser was itself 
 that on PS2. But considered the not logical nature of the game and the its one thousand facetings, 
 also who has ruling the roads of San Andreas could find new stimuli, even if with the song of the 
 heart in background.. A true milestone stone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boschetar
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jun 28, 2005 6:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is just a clone of the previous two. The gameplay, graphices (still outdated) , and replay 
 value are null if you're looking for something innovative and fresh. The sound is truly a strong 
 point because of the music and the awesome voice acting (esp. Samuel Jackson) . If you want the 
 same game (GTA3, GTA: VC) with a new twist, this is your dog. The only really cool thing about this 
 game is the free play you can do. You can go anywhere, do anything you'd like. This version of 
 GTA also includes more vulgarity with constant birdies flying. Not advised for children. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RLJSlick
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 21, 2005 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Im finally coming to the end of this game, its pretty long. I am far enough that I thought I 
 could say a few words about it. Being a fan of Vice City I was looking forward to this game, and 
 was very pleased to see that it was well done. The cities are amazingly huge, with miles and miles 
 of places to drive, the cities are also very diverse and so are the people in the game. 
  The Graphics are very well done, but nothing spectacular, but the sound is almost perfect, I really 
 got a feel for the life style these guys lived. The story lines is very well done, and entertaining. 
 I really got into the character of CJ, and I thought that Rockstar did a great job with JC and 
 all the emotions that he had to go though.
  The missions for the most part are well done and stayed inside the story well. The missions in 
 the beginning, on other hand were getting a little silly and tendencies, but after a well you get 
 into the main plot of the story and things get better. 
  Once again the graphics are well done, the sound is GREAT, and the story is fun and diverse. If 
 you have problems with stereotyping then stay far away from this game, on other hand, if you get 
 into games, that try to portray life in an harden town, you will love this one! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dem0nslayer89
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 21, 2005 6:57 am PT
Review:  This is just as i expected. This game is really easy to get into and the game play is really fun. 
 The graphics are a lot better than its PS2 counter-part as well. This game is action-packed and 
 filled with fun. What makes this game even better is the custom soundtracks that they let you put 
 in the game. The only thing I can say bad about this game is the constant glitches and the controls 
 may take some getting use to. Even though the little problems this game is well worth your attention. 
 This game is great on any console or pc that you buy. I recommending this game to anyone that has 
 a PS2, Xbox, or PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silvioniall
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 20, 2005 6:34 pm PT
Review:  San Andreas is a more modern Vice City , Some characters of vice city take part in this game these 
 are , Maccor , Kent Paul , and Rosenberg , dont kno if there are more tho , this game has bad graphics 
 exept cars and I toughut it wasnt gonna be a good game but i was wrong infact its better than all 
 GTA's in one , ther are gang wars which is nice. You can recruit gang members altough there is 1 
 40% of the game which you cant. There are graphics problems like the people hands and fish they 
 are a piece of pape , and the texture of desrt and grasslands mountains . Buy this game its worth 
 it!!!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoeKob
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 20, 2005 4:48 am PT
Review:  I'm gonna make this short. This is an amazing game, best of the GTA series. Its got amazing sound, 
 and gameplay is top notch but there were some parts that I really disliked, such as learning to 
 fly a plane. Rockstar have completely ruined the plane flying experience. It was so easy in Vice 
 City, but here, its so complicated and it really takes the fun out of it, especially since you 
 have to beat some tedious flying school thing to get to fly. Besides that, every other mission 
 is amazing and very creative. The graphics weren't that good, there were a few graphical glitches 
 here and there. Overall, buy this game, don't rent it, you'll like it. Very good stuff inside. 
 There's good laughs in it too :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yurik
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 18, 2005 8:56 am PT
Review:  WELCOME TO SAN ANDREAS 
  Okay, I have to admit upfront, I'm a fan of the Grand Theft Auto games, and this game did nothing 
 to change that. Before I proceed to the meat of the review, please keep in mind that I haven't 
 so much as touched the PlayStation 2 version of this game (which came out significantly earlier 
 and proceeded to break all kinds of sales records) . In addition, all the GTA games I've played 
 so far have been on consoles, but I'm also a very discriminating PC gamer. That is, my review should 
 be relatively unspoiled by expectations or irrational fandom. 
  
  A bit of history: Grand Theft Auto 3: Liberty City, which first came out a few years ago for the 
 PS2, was a landmark game, featuring a stunningly huge New York-inspired metropolis, with intense, 
 open-ended gameplay; not to mention a rather brutal and visceral modus operandi for its main and 
 peripheral characters. While years and a console generation have passed since then, the only game 
 that has really matched GTA 3 has been its sequel, Grand Theft Auto: Vice City. While a totally 
 separate game, Vice City still looked and played a lot like its immediate predecessor, even if 
 it was based in a much more pleasant place (a Miami-like 80's city of glitz) and featured various 
 improvements. Improvements such as the ability to buy real estate, drive motorcycles and fly aircraft. 
 It also featured an actual main plot, as opposed to just a disjointed set of arbitrary betrayals. 
 Nevertheless, I personally felt like Vice City, while another stellar game, didn't really move 
 to correct Liberty City 's greatest weaknesses, which to me were the cardboard-cutout feel of the 
 huge city, and the immaturity of the writing and plot -- despite a definite Mature rating. So when 
 Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas was announced with a promise of an entire state to explore (along 
 with an early 90s theme) , I wasn't particularly impressed - it just seemed like it was going to 
 be more of the same. And that, the third time around, might be less than enough for complete satisfaction. 
 
  
  I stand corrected. San Andreas is what it's all about: Yes, it's bigger; yes, it's better; but 
 it's also different. The differences aren't readily apparent at first: The game still begins without 
 much fanfare, and the main character hardly seems like much to look at in his white tank-top and 
 low baggy jeans. You will play as Carl "CJ" Johnson, a young punk who just returned to Los Santos 
 (read: Los Angeles) from a lengthy hiatus in Liberty City due to the news of his mother's death. 
 CJ proceeds to reunite with his brother and street gang. On the surface, everything is as in previous 
 GTA entries: There are still lots of loyalty shifts, and the missions still involve killing lots 
 of people. You're still limited to one area (Los Santos) at first, then forced to "evacuate" to 
 a different area (the gigantic country areas, then San Fierro, and so on) by plot circumstances, 
 eventually gaining access to the whole state of San Andreas. The tone of this game is really quite 
 different. For one thing, CJ is a pretty likeable guy, despite being a horrible killer, unlike 
 VC's robotic Tommy Vercetti or the mute LC protagonist. As an example, neither CJ nor his mates 
 like what crack is doing to their neighborhood; for another, he's able to make actual friends with 
 people, instead of just "business partners" to kill later. There are many hilarious characters, 
 such as The Truth, a Peter Fonda-voiced hippie who grows fields of marijuana and drives an artfully 
 decorated van called "The Mothership." The game even makes a couple connections to the other GTA 
 games. I don't want to spoil anything, so I'll say you'll definitely recognize at least one face. 
 Overall, the game is definitely much more personal and less mean-spirited than its predecessors. 
 It comes off as much deeper in its emotional impact, as a result. 
  
  GAMEPLAY 
  With such a different tone for the plot and characters, has the gameplay also changed? Oh, the 
 core gameplay is still all there: A huge city (actually, three, and country in between) to explore, 
 a number of gangs to befriend or alienate, and any vehicle available to jack at the touch of a 
 single button. The driving, which has always been the GTA hallmark, is as simple and addictive 
 as always, with unparalleled feel and variety of the vehicles: cars, bikes, motorbikes, planes, 
 helicopters, and more. That said, the terrain has been tweaked to be more interesting for driving, 
 providing such joys as driving on the sides of the Los Santos River (which is as dry and concrete-laden 
 as its real-world inspiration, the L. A. River) or dodging police pursuit on the hills of San Fierro 
 (the GTA version of hilly San Francisco) . All the addictive driving mini-games of past entries, 
 like the Crazy Taxi missions and the insane stunt challenges, are still there. The combat is similar 
 to past GTA entries, although there are now crouching, rolling, strafing, and even stealth melee 
 moves. There's a variety of weapons, too, although the variations among each basic type of gun 
 (e. g., the Tec-9 vs. Micro SMG) are occasionally confusing and seem unnecessary. The game box recommends 
 using a joypad, but I found it much more powerful to use the keyboard-and-mouse control scheme, 
 which allows for manual aiming. The foot combat has been rather difficult and unnatural in the 
 past, and the new moves combined with keyboard-and-mouse controls should make this the best version 
 of GTA combat-wise. However, the controls are a bit hard to learn, at first. 
  
  Based on this rock-solid foundation, San Andreas builds a game of unprecedented depth. The plot-advancing 
 missions do their best to show off the cities of Los Santos, San Fierro, Las Venturas (read: Las 
 Vegas) and surrounding country. For instance, one of the missions features a harried motorcycle 
 chase through Los Santos, where it is the player's task to closely follow an enemy who chooses 
 an absolutely insane path through the city, including driving on the shoulder just above a big 
 freeway. Another mission makes use of the aforementioned Los Santos River to stage a shameless 
 homage to the motorcycle/truck chase from Terminator 2. There are also indoor missions, race missions, 
 stealth missions, break-in missions,  
 missions, and the list goes on and on. All told, the average San Andreas mission is about 1.5 times 
 as fun as the average Liberty City mission, and that's really saying something. There is still 
 the occasional misstep, such as one mission where you have to save a woman (say what?) inside a 
 burning building, while grappling with single-digit frame rates and unconvincing smoke effects. 
 
  
  Gang politics have always been a big part of the GTA experience, but this game finally makes this 
 consist of more than a few scripted missions and the fact that if you drive through hostile territory, 
 your car will be shot at. In fact, gangs now have well-defined territories, and CJ can initiate 
 gang wars to try to take over more land. Conversely, rival gangs will often attack territories 
 controlled by your gangs, and you must defend them. The gang battles themselves are somewhat similar 
 to earlier GTA games' Rampage missions, but feel much more real, especially since you have to play 
 both defender and attacker. Interestingly, controlling more land puts money virtually directly 
 into your pockets, which makes the whole thing worthwhile. 
  
  Much publicized were the additions of personal statistics, eating, exercising, and dating to the 
 Grand Theft Auto brew. If you're afraid that GTA is now an RPG, rest easy -- it's not. Eating and 
 exercising are basically very simple and not at all time-consuming ways to keep certain statistics 
 in check: fat, muscle, stamina, sex appeal. These tasks are non-intrusive -- all they amount to is 
 a nice reminder that you're a real person as opposed to some sort of robot. Dating, on the other 
 hand, is kind of a pain -- you have to pay pretty close attention on your girlfriends, or they lose 
 interest or start nagging you by cell phone in the middle of one gang war or another. However, 
 dating is strictly optional and generally amounts to another mildly amusing do-it-whenever-you-want 
 mini-game. 
  
  The game also features a skill system for each weapon, and it's a resounding success. CJ starts 
 off as a good fighter and becomes quite deadly in the face of superior odds. His lock-on range 
 increases, and new abilities (such as dual wield) are added as various skills rise in level. 
 
  
  The clothes system of Vice City is back, together with customizable hair styles. The fact that 
 people around CJ comment on his looks makes this that much more rewarding. Overall, the RPG-like 
 traits, while never approaching the depth of an actual RPG, add a certain texture to the game making 
 CJ feel more like a real guy instead of a hollow placeholder. The San Andreas environment, with 
 numerous indoor locations and businesses, as well as many minor mini-games (basketball, pool, arcades, 
 dancing) , achieves a similar effect: The cities no longer feel like pretty but hollow shells, but 
 rather they feel real and bursting with life. 
  
  While my list of grievances won't be anywhere near the length of the above list of praises, the 
 problems that exist are serious enough. The most important problem lies in the gang war system. 
 The strategic idea is very good, but the implementation of group warfare itself is lacking. There 
 is a limited squad system, but CJ's squad mates are very, very dumb, to the point of being unable 
 to clear simple obstacles. They also have an extremely annoying habit of shooting rival members 
 while the cops are staring right at them. Trying to fight a gang war (which is tough enough as 
 it is unless it's part of a scripted mission) while also having cop cars and helicopters firing 
 at me isn't my idea of fun. The frame rate also bogs down in large gang situations, presumably 
 due to the AI effort involved, despite your enemies also acting as dumb as a bag of bricks. Last 
 but not least, thrown weapons feel incredibly clumsy and usually are more dangerous to the thrower 
 than the target. With 3rd-person games with such silk-smooth combat as Max Payne 2 on the market, 
 that's pretty sad. The sometimes clunky foot combat and the clumsy gang warfare knock the otherwise 
 stellar gameplay down a point to a 9. 
  
  GRAPHICS 
  Graphics have always been important in the Grand Theft Auto series. The point of GTA is to immerse 
 the player in an alternative version of our own world, and then let him/her do whatever. And while 
 I've already spoken at length about the "doing whatever" thing, audiovisual immersion is almost 
 as important. 
  
  Well, the good news is that San Andreas definitely looks and sounds eerily like the geographical 
 areas on which it's based. Most any California landmark you can think of, and probably many you 
 can't, is represented in the game in vivid detail and color. Wanted to visit the Santa Monica pier? 
 It's there. How about the Golden Gate bridge? Absolutely. Ever wondered what it'd be like to live 
 in that awful neighborhood in Boyz 'n The Hood? Okay, it's not really a landmark, but this is your 
 chance, because every feature of a South Central neighborhood is there, together with dilapidated 
 houses and car carcasses in the green-brown back yards. And just as you think you've seen all there 
 is to see, you get kicked out to the country, which also looks convincing, with its winding mountain 
 roads and highways, small towns and villages, lakes, farms, and industrial complexes. To top all 
 that off, there are dozens and dozens of building interiors, all painstakingly textured, including 
 fast-food joints, night clubs, individual residences, stores, and more. Your homies loiter about 
 your dead-end street in Los Santos, drinking 40s and smoking something or other. It all just feels 
 very authentic (however, I freely admit my idea of "authentic" consists of films about the era, 
 not the real thing) . Much like San Andreas' gameplay far eclipses the sometimes cardboard-cutout 
 feel of, say, Liberty City's, the sheer volume and detail of graphical work completely eclipses 
 the past two Grand Theft Auto games, possibly even put together. 
  
  So what's the bad news? Well, as an avid PC gamer, my first impression of San Andreas' visuals 
 was a bit jarred. First of all, even on the more than capable review system (Athlon 3400+, GeForce 
 6800GT, 1GB RAM) , the game defaults to a resolution of 640x480, rather mediocre maximum draw distance, 
 and even caps the frame rate at 25 FPS. While such a frame rate cap is acceptable on a TV (and, 
 in fact, low frame rates are something of a Grand Theft Auto trademark on the PlayStation 2) , it 
 just feels completely wrong on a PC screen. At first, I was very scared as I watched the game's 
 introductory cut scene at these settings. Of course, I immediately removed the cap and pumped up 
 all the settings, and the game ran very well and looked great. However, the game's PS2 origins 
 are still visible: There is no normal mapping (so everything looks flat and angular) , definitely 
 no real-time lighting, and there are serious clipping issues with most objects other than vehicles. 
 The textures, at least at the highest settings, are a great improvement over the previous GTA entries 
 - the ads and billboards, for example, are easy to read now. Still, about the only fancy graphical 
 features I noticed are bloom lighting and soft shadows. Technologically speaking, this game looks 
 beautiful - but maybe two or three years old. It looks like the PlayStation 2 version, except with 
 much higher resolution textures and a huge advantage in draw distance. However, if the choice is 
 between cutting down the sheer scope of this world and cutting down the advanced graphics features, 
 I certainly choose the latter. And, if you have a somewhat powerful rig, the game should run well 
 for you (although, it bears mentioning that there are a couple missions involving lots of smoke 
 and fire, and the game bogged down to single digits for longs period of time) . 
  
  The character graphics don't fare as well as the environments. While the animations (such as your 
 various pals' body language) are uniformly stellar and life-like, the character models themselves 
 are definitely rather ugly (complete with expressionless faces and block hands) , which is a shame 
 since it's becoming very difficult to even see polygons in character models in many of today's 
 games. Character models have never been a strength of the GTA shop, but it's really a shame they 
 haven't improved this. 
  
  Overall, the graphics get an 8, but those expecting the technical dominance that comes along with 
 the territory with most prime PC games are in for a rude awakening. A similarly looking game with 
 lesser amounts of terrain and sheer atmosphere would probably get a much lower score. 
  
  SOUND 
  No game approaches this one in terms of sound, period. The voice work is, bar none, the 
 best in a video game, ever. The game is filled with memorable characters, who are expertly voiced 
 by an interesting combination of Hollywood talent (Samuel L. Jackson, James Woods, Peter Fonda) 
 and rappers (Young Maylay as CJ, Ice T as Madd Dogg) . A-list talent is nothing new to GTA (Vice 
 City featured Ray Liotta, for example) but the insightful and simply excellent dialogue this time 
 around makes a huge difference, as opposed to the previous games. I sometimes felt embarrassed 
 that such good actors had to say such dreck. Also astounding are the sounds of the city (and country) , 
 wherein random passers-by have whole conversations with each other, without ever becoming repetitive. 
 Your friends in the 'hood frequently comment on your clothing or haircut or even musculature. Even 
 CJ himself keeps the routine slamming into cars and pedestrians amusing as opposed to impersonal, 
 with such remarks as "Did you BUY your driver's license?" and "Does anybody in this state know 
 how to drive?" (The irony of such a remark is palpable after driving the wrong way on a freeway 
 for a few minutes) . 
  
  Then, of course, there's the radio. In keeping with the early 90s theme, about half of the stations 
 involve rap. I'm not a huge fan of rap, but I still have to admit that Rockstar North have outdone 
 themselves on the radio front, yet again. There are twelve stations, most featuring well known 
 music of the era, by artists such as N. W. A., Ice Cube, Soundgarden, Faith No More, and dozens more. 
 The trademark caustic commercials and talk radio are as bitingly funny as ever. In addition, this 
 PC version of the game includes the feature from Vice City that allows playing your own audio files 
 as a special radio station. An extra touch of detail comes from the fact that the various vehicles 
 have different sounding stereos; for instance, a motorbike's sound is tinnier than other vehicles'. 
 
  
  Overall, despite a rather annoying bug where certain sounds entirely disappear for a time (for 
 me, it often happened when it rained) , it would be simply ridiculous to give this game anything 
 but a 10 on sound. (However, I'd advise you to wait for the developer to release a patch for the 
 game before buying.) 
  
  REPLAY VALUE 
  Since San Andreas features easily the biggest GTA game world so far in terms of area, and the map 
 is still chock-full of icons representing things to do, and almost each one of those things is 
 tons of fun, it's not surprising that replay value is a definite strength here. Sure, some of the 
 mini-games are pretty simple (dancing, for instance, involves pressing arrow keys in sequence, 
 as indicated on the screen) , but no one's forcing you to do all of them. It's hard to imagine an 
 action fan that won't find at least 60 hours of gameplay here. The game's main plot missions also 
 do a fantastic job introducing the player to most types of side missions, so it's a trivial and 
 natural thing to take a break from the main story and go do something different at any time. And 
 if you're a completist, this is the game of your dreams (or nightmares, I suppose) , because of 
 the sheer number of challenges that await you. Again, anything but a 10 here would be a mockery 
 of Rockstar North's efforts. 
  
  BOTTOM LINE 
  The San Andreas experience is tough to sum up in words. I've described many of the things you get 
 to do and see, but that might be missing the point. This game is more than a game, and it's also 
 more than a movie. It's a virtual playground, true, but its characters and main protagonist are 
 human and real -- albeit living by an extremely warped version of the conventional system of morals. 
 It's a world in many ways realistic, but also one that never loses sight of the point of a video 
 game: to be fun. It's brutal and visceral, but never impersonal, and often quite poignant. In fact, 
 it's surprising that a series known for its in-your-face and unapologetically "positive" depiction 
 of a criminal lifestyle can feel so human. The previous entries in the series have been robotic 
 and emotionless much like their protagonists, but the world of San Andreas is a whole different 
 animal. Let's hope the rest of the game industry watches and learns. Unless you lack a good PC, 
 or already have the PlayStation 2 version, or absolutely demand the latest graphical bells and 
 whistles, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sykalob
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2005 10:36 pm PT
Review:  At first sorry cause i was suspend for long time but i am here again .. and this time i will review 
 grand theft auto :san andreas.
  when u start the game the music of "game start movie" make you feel rocky
  then the game start 
 .. at first i thought it isnt from G. T. A series .. cause the graphics is so diffrent .not a new engine 
 but its an improvement that u can think its a new engine ... the reflections .. the seas and the 
 ways the trees ... and the second thing is the sounds really its wonderful cause every littl thing 
 in it when a car impact your car u hear (carl ) joke the other driver... i wont to talk more cause 
 the good things dont need more talk .. just watch this game and u will find your self amazed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zero_Fate_
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 17, 2005 3:02 am PT
Review:  Rockstar has done it again, they succeeded in making a new GTA game that pretty much easily surpasses 
 the other games of its kind. San Andreas offers a new wealth amount of options, customization, 
 stupendous lock and loud shootouts and a race feature that makes other kinds of its genre looks 
 like trash.
  
  [Story]
  Carl Johnson (C. J) the protagonist of San Andreas escaped from the pressures of life in Los Santos 
 where gangsters are corrupting the state and drug problems. 5 years has passed and now its the 
 early 90s and C. J receives a call from his brother Sweet only to find out that his mother has been 
 murdered. CJ is forced to take a journey statewide and save his family and friends.
  
  [Gameplay]
  Basicly San Andreas plays like other GTA's but that isnt a bad thing because the 
 shoot outs are still superb and this time the game is almost 2-3 times bigger than Vice City. You 
 have alot of arsenal of weapons (which you can buy or.... do something illegal) and a wide variety 
 of vehicles in the game. Your weapons include pistols, machine guns, sub machine guns and everyone's 
 favorite rocket launcher. The shootouts in the game is your basic lock and load type gameplay or 
 unlike other GTA's you can manually aim this time (which is easy in the P. C compared to the other 
 versions of the game) . C. J can also upgrade his weapon skills for a specific category of weapons 
 which will improve his aim and also if upgraded enough C. J will recieve the ability to duel wield. 
 Also as strange enough theres also stealth into some parts of the gameplay which makes it all the 
 more spectacular as you can crouch and remain hidden in the shadow than when the guard or patrol 
 has got his back turned you can end his life with a spectacular and gory looking knife kill which 
 is extremely satisfying. The controls are easy to learn compared to the PS2 version of the game 
 too which you should be able to control in a matter of minutes. Theres also vehicles you can ride 
 such as bikes, motorcycle, cars, helicopters and well just about everything about the game's vehicles 
 is awesome not to mention you can customize them from nitro to hydraulics. The open-ended state 
 of San Andreas is huge probably 3 times bigger than Vice City allowing you to explore some parts 
 of San Andreas. The missions are greatly designed and scripted just to support how huge San Andreas 
 is. Also with weapon skill upgrades Carl can improve his health, diet, fatness, lung capacity, 
 stamina, car driving skills, bike skills and working out. I cant really explain how much part of 
 the gameplay I did not review yet simply because everything about San Andreas is huge! Really its 
 something you must explore for yourself...
  
  [Graphics]
  The PS2 version and the Xbox version pales in comparison with the P. C version ultimately the better 
 version. You can improve the textures, models and just about everything but you need good specs 
 to fully appreciate what San Andreas has to offer. Theres some lightning quality to be found here. 
 The character models and textures doesnt look all that great but for something open-ended like 
 this it comes to no suprise and the framerate does not drop. (at least with my specs) .
  
  [Sound] 
  Sound is probably the best of San Andrea's presentation yet. My comp plays the audio 
 fine (although in Gamespots review they said something about the audio going out of place so be 
 warned) . The sound is top notch quality and the voice actors has done their part extremely well. 
 The sound from weapon effects to explosions it really immerses you in San Andreas. From Ryders 
 funny diologue through Big Smokes hunger for food you really ought to laugh at some of the diologue 
 played in the game again immerses you in San Andreas. Even if you have the audio issues it will 
 be fixed in a patch sooner or later.
  
  [Value]
  Value is the strongest point of what San Andreas has to offer, it actually almost feels like a 
 MMO since thers a huge city to explore, secrets, weapon training, skills training, excerising, 
 the main plot missions, the side missions, the parachuting, the boat riding, the illegal activies 
 you can undertake from just having fun shooting innocent people. This has got them all. The gameplay 
 helps immerse you into the open ended system of San Andreas and the sound also just supports how 
 long your going to be sucked in. Really it can take someone months to fully complete the game and 
 get a 100% criminal rating but still the shootouts, the driving mechanics, the minigames really 
 ought to immerse you in the San Andreas.
  
  [Overall]
  Overall, theres plenty of stuff I said about San Andreas but Ive only scratched the surface, there 
 is tons to be said about San Andreas. Players should fully appreciate the gameplay, sound and value 
 of the game and how it will take someone hours just to explore one out of four parts of San Andreas. 
 This is obviously a game that took a extreme level of talent in the making. In the past couple 
 of years fans of GTA really said that Grand Theft Auto 3 revolutionized the gaming industry but 
 what they have may not noticed is another revolutionary game in the making. That game is indeed 
 San Andreas and suprasses Grand Theft Auto 3 and Vice City by a landslide. If you are even remotely 
 interested in this type of gameplay or plot than you should without a doubt purchase Grand Theft 
 Auto : San Andreas for the P. C (If you dont have a good hardware spec and cant afford to upgrade 
 your computer than it still must be experienced through either its Xbox version or the PS2 version) .
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcahill92129
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 16, 2005 5:29 am PT
Review:  A simply awsome game. now, not my fav (that goes to GTA III, i just loved that game) but in terms 
 of things to do, this gets the nod. here we go....
  
  Gameplay: its GTA man! jack cars, do missions, cause pointless violence, make money!!! BUT THERES 
 MORE!!! BUY CLOTHES, PIMP YOUR RIDE, HAIRCUTS, EVEN GANG WARS!!!! its all here, how can R* possible 
 beat this? the first city itself is bigger then VC, and take that times 3!!! on PC, it takes a 
 lil time to get used to teh controls and what not, but after a while, IMO they are better then 
 PS2 and XBOX's. BUT, the only downside, teh camera is annoying (theres no camera lock for some 
 reason) when driving. it can be hard to control it at times. 
  
  Graphics: you need a powerful system to make this game look awsome, but even when you have a good 
 enough machine to get by, this game still has great grfx. now, some people reported glitches, but 
 ive found none.
  
  Sound: you cant mess up sound, so ill go with teh radio. i didnt like VC's radio (lazlow captured 
 my heart *sigh*) and its ok in SA, lotsa rap and crappy (IMO) old rock. but, you can make your 
 own station, which is cool
  
  replay: dude, its GTA. there are hundreds of missions, and even more things to do, like pimpin, 
 GFs (i dont need one, i got one in real life, so im ok) , taxis, poilce, you name it. only thing, 
 no packages, only tags (spray painting gang signs) and they are all in the first city. this game 
 is big, it will take forever to get 100%. but thats what summers for!
  
  tilit: 10. i love this game. now, it can start to feel like the other two GTAs, and get a tad monatonous. 
 but, i look at the clock and ive been playin for 6 hours lol. then i leave, and i crave it. this 
 game is awsome BUY IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cps
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 15, 2005 3:20 pm PT
Review:  GTA San Andreas is Probably the best out from the other sequel re-hashes; Rockstar have tweaked 
 and honed a number of improvements to make this addition worthwile. San Andreas stands as the best 
 entry to the Grand Theft Auto series, and to the genre that the franchise has dominated; also standing 
 as the best free roaming experience in gaming. 
  
  The game opens with CJ (our protagonist) who is framed for mudering a police officer as soon as 
 he returns to San Andreas, which is all ochestrated by a 'bent-copper' called Tenpenny (played 
 by Samuel L Jackson) . CJ was called out back home after hearing of his mom/mums death (or muder) , 
 and so, with these events passed, CJ is dumped out to the slums of which he grew up upon and is 
 thrown back into the gang wars. 
  
  He re-uintes with his 'homies' and this is where the game begins. CJ is given missions, and the 
 game immediately has a sense of deja vu... But what lies ahead, was quite surprising. The missions 
 end up to be far more unique and intelligent than it's predecessors and don't nearly become as 
 repetative as before. The hood feels real, and it is further put across than any other setting, 
 through the missions, characters, and music even. The territory struggle between the Ballas and 
 yourselves (who might in fact be the Ballas, I get confused!) is introduced by drive-by shootings, 
 and graffitti markings, to stamp your hold on the ghetto. The missions will, at first, revolve 
 around this war, and you really get a feel for it, with the enemy on your door-step. 
  
  One issue I picked up on early on, is the controls. I was used to both the console version's controls 
 and the PC versions of GTA 3 and Vice City. The PC San Andreas, converts the console controls onto 
 the keyboard and mouse, and it is a transition that needed a bit more work, but I found that some 
 browsing in the controller options, helped out, with showing what buttons do what, and what you'll 
 need to change, basically. 
  
  The Graphics (depending on your machine - and this is based on the highest grade or capacity - 
 which I used) are great. Far superior to the PS2s' and even X-Box (although not too far ahead of 
 those) . The draw distance is staggering and the jagged edges have seemed to vanish. There are a 
 lot more complex shadow and lighting effects and there hasn't been any slowdown yet! One issue, 
 is that when flying an aircraft, when coming in close to a building or landing bay, the loading 
 sometimes can't keep up, meaning that there may be a few seconds delay for the textures and details 
 of your surroundings to come into view. 
  
  Sound - Note, that I am running the game on high standard sound operating systems, and have not 
 come across any problems that Gamespot spoke of! - The voice acting is great, and obviously, where 
 can this game fault, even with a little loss of character this sequel round, with the pedestrians, 
 the main cast are very well expressed, and as I said before (to finish) , where can this game fault, 
 with Samuel L Jackson giving his talents. The music, although not to some people's tastes, is very 
 well organised and appropriate to your surroundings; If you're in CJ's home town, you'll hear Rap, 
 the countryside, country, and so on. The sound effects lack slightly, with bland, repetative ripping 
 pistols and machine guns, and the same explosive noise you'll hear, when there is an explosion 
 (obviously) . It is not noticable, unless you're so into criticism, that you will choose to! 
  
  The Value of this game, in all, it is the biggest GTA, in scale of the world, and the missions. 
 It has few new options from previous titles, but improves upon the old features, and there's enough 
 'newness' to keep it fresh for a long time. If you're a first time GTA buyer, than this is the 
 title to choose, if you're unsure whether to get this (if you've owned the previous games) , rest 
 assured that even though it is still the same old engine, and focus of domination and power, it 
 feels fresh, and you'll be kicking yourself as you drive around in that old tank feature in GTA3, 
 when everyone else has already gone up to the Hunter Helicopter in Vice City, and now the Hydra 
 fighter jet in San Andreas! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VonDouche
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 15, 2005 7:03 am PT
Review:  All I can say is that this version is so much better than the PS2 version. I bought the PS2 version 
 the day it came out and I'll admit that it was an awsome game, but the slowdown and crappy graphics 
 ruined the game for me. The worst part was at dusk/dawn, when the whole city would be at an insanely 
 orange colour, which was the most annoying part of the game. Well, the PC version fixes all that. 
 The graphics are much clearer, aiming with the mouse kicks the crap out of the ps2 controller, 
 there's no slowdown (depending on your video card) and that annoying orange is gone. Oh and the 
 custom user tracks are cool too so you can listen to your own music on the radio if you don't like 
 the preset stations. Overall its a joy to play and it's definately worth checking out..
  
  Other than that not much else to tell that hasn't been said about the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maedakentaro
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 14, 2005 5:42 am PT
Review:  As I live in Japan, I wasn't able to play the PS2 version when it was out last november. Now, with 
 the PC version finally available, I can say that GTA: SA was truly worth the wait. A gigantic map, 
 a wide range of new and old vehicles, a good storyline and excellent voice acting makes this the 
 finest in the series. GTA: SA seems to have definitely surpassed both GTA3 and GTA: VC.
  Most of All, the enlarged map allows for a greater variety in gameplay. In the past series (including 
 GTA1&2) , the game largely played out in the urban area. The player usually drove through a relatively 
 monotonous environment. In SA, many missions are located in the countryside, with ups and downs 
 over hills and valleys. 
  I really recommend this game to all the fans of GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 14, 2005 12:34 am PT
Review:  GTA: SA is just more of what made the other games in the series so succesful. Running, driving, 
 shooting, blowing stuff up, and picking up hookers. But this time - we've got a game world three 
 times bigger, a few new RPG like variables thrown in, and an African American main character, who 
 can has the amazing ability to change his clothes, and go on dates!
  
  Anyone familiar with the GTA series will already have a basic understanding of how this game works. 
 Basically, you run around the cities doing tasks for different people, and progressing the storyline. 
 As you progress, you open up more of the 3 city map, acquire properties that let you save and stash 
 cars, and on occasion pick up a business that will make you some cash. You generally have two or 
 three sources of missions that will progress the game, a couple sources that just add flavor, and 
 collection based and vehicle based missions you can do whenever. Moving on to new cities opens 
 up new characters to obtain quests from, and thus continues untill you have no more left to complete.
 
  
  The added spice in San Andreas comes in not only the vastness of the new map, but in the addition 
 of a few new game elements. The main character, CJ has several stats you can control by doing different 
 things, which will effect his performance in the game. You have 4 primary stats - Fat, Muscle, 
 Stamina, and Respect, along with Sex Appeal, that changes how your character acts and how people 
 respond to him. A fatter CJ will be slower then a leaner one, and the more muscle you have, the 
 more damage your punches will inflict. Higher stamina gives you more time to run before you get 
 tired, higher respect lets you recruit and command a gang, and sex appeal can allow you to obtain 
 girlfriends which will unlock bonuses for constantly dating them.
  
  All these attributes have different factors that can modify them. Eating will get you fatter, working 
 out at the gym lifting weights will get you more buffed up, cycling and running a lot will increase 
 your stamina, doing missions or aquiring gang turf will raise your respect, and dressing nice and 
 driving a hot car will raise your sex appeal.
  
  Along with those base statistics, are many more values that change your skills with the various 
 weapons and vehicles. Driving bikes a lot will raise your skill with them, and make you less likely 
 to fall off. Using a certain weapon will generally increase your accuracy, and depending on the 
 weapon allow you to strafe while using it, or weild it in dual form. You've also got a luck statistic, 
 progress bars for any girlfriends you acquire, and several other stat progression bars that represent 
 how long you can hold your breath, maximum health, and more.
  
  Now that i have the general gameplay out of the way, let me get down to the good and bad points 
 in this game.
  
  The Good:
  
  Compaired to PS2 and Xbox, the graphics are much better. They're also signifigantly better then 
 the previous releases. Draw distance is much further then the PS2, as well. 
  
  All the new features are sure to keep a player busy no matter what part of the game they're at. 
 Dating sidequests, driving missions, and collectable items adds to the depth and replayability 
 of the game.
  
  Controls are well done for on foot and in car, aiming with the mouse is excellent, and using it 
 to look around corners while you turn is a nifty feature that signifigantly reduces the number 
 of crashes you might get into while turning.
  
  Samuel Jackson and some other well known actors lend voice talent to the game, and almost all the 
 voice overs in the game sound extremely well done - no poorly delivered lines at all, all the character 
 talk can really pull you into the game.
  
  Mods. There's already several mods out at this point, only a few days after the release. There's 
 likely to be many more that will add to the replayability of the game and generally make it more 
 fun.
  
  The Bad:
  
  PC gamers will be a bit miffed that the console save system is still being used. When you want 
 to save, you have to return to one of your safehouses or one of the few save points thrown about 
 the massive worldmap. No mid mission saving - screw up and you have to start all over again.
  
  There's no support for SLi. As of right now, any SLi using gamers will have to disable SLi 
 rendering to play. Also, a good deal of ATI cards in general have been experiencing glitches with 
 video. A patch might be released soon to fix this, but as of right now its a serious downside of 
 the game.
  
  Even with a powerful rig, there can be some serious lag. Set off a bunch of detonations at once, 
 or fly through a cloud, and even with a cutting edge computer, you'll still see lag. Like my last 
 gripe, this may or may not be fixed through a patch later on, but as of right now is a bit of a 
 pain.
  
  Overall, the graphics are very dated for a computer game. Essentially, the graphics engine is 5 
 years old. By no means does this retract from gameplay, but during the cutscenes, seeing your hand 
 and realizing you really dont have any fingers takes away some of the immersiveness.
  
  Some missions will have you pulling your hair out, retrying dozens of times.
  
  Keyboard and 
 mouse controls can be overly-sensitive for flight and motorcycling. Flight on the keyboard will 
 take lots of practice, and in some cases you almost need a gamepad to complete different school 
 tests.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  GTA: SA is a great game, only being held back by its own console roots - dated graphics, console 
 style saving, a few control quirks, and missions that can drive you insane trying to complete. 
 For the most part, though, the gameplay makes up for it. The addition of new elements like the 
 gang war and the huge game world keeps this game above standard, and well worth any gamer's hard 
 earned "paper". 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: assafy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 12, 2005 11:19 pm PT
Review:  the best game in the series, in my opinion. graphics are just fine, sound is ok, gameplay rocks. 
 guys you can play this game a few months or more without gettin bored.
  the things i especially liked are the fact that you can swim and upgrade you car, the nitro rocks 
 in this game! other things i like are the different stats, such as respect, and the tatoo and barber 
 shop
  the only problems with this game are some glitches in the sound and the graphics, what makes the 
 difference from a good game to an absolutely perfect product.
  
  anyway, rockstar did it again, and i hope they'll keep on the good work! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midfingr
Rating: 4
Date: Jun 12, 2005 8:43 pm PT
Review:  I was excited at first, but..
  
  I'm starting to dislike this game. First we have to wait 6 months for PC and Xbox versions. When 
 it finally arrives, it's a half-baked PS2 port IMHO.
  
  Dislikes (so far) :
  - on screen prompts are very poor
  - driving is terrible
  - graphics are dated
  - too many 
 inconsistant sound problems
  - gameplay is boring
  - I do not like rap (notice I didn't add music)
  - pointless and stupid missions
  - no Tommy 
 Varcetti; he made the series IMHO
  - lack of obvious keyboard keys i. e. a map hotkey
  
  Likes:
  - some funny cut scenes
  - new adjustable attributes - very cool
  - very nice book 
 and pull out map
  
  To me this wasn't worth the wait. Oh well, I have lots of other games to play.
  That's my $.02 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cr8ive
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 12, 2005 2:12 pm PT
Review:  I love all of the GTA series (except for GTA 1, which I didn't play much unfortunately) . When GTA: SA 
 for PC came out, I just have to get it, I've finished it in the PS2 but felt compelled to replay 
 it again on PC.
  
  3 main reasons for getting the GTA: SA for PC.. Graphic.. Custom radio track.. and LOAD time. As 
 much as I love the PS2 version, the load time is often unbearable, especially when we keep failing 
 the mission (and yes, you WILL fail some of the missions, it's just so tough) .
  
  Graphically, the PC version is definitely superior to the PS2 version. The character models look 
 so much nicer, more detailed. The environment looks nice, and oooh no more fog! And no more popping 
 buildings (warning: dependent on your hardware) . I was fortunate not to get the graphic glitches 
 that some users were reporting in GTA forum sites.
  
  The sound department, however, is not that great. The custom radio track took some effort to get 
 it to work, I was getting GTA ads when I try to listen to my MP3s. Updated my audio drivers, copying 
 mp3 files/shortcuts back & forth, but it still wouldn't play. Until DJOneTwoThree mentioned that 
 I should get the newest quicktime, so I did, I updated my quicktime, and lo! The custom tracks 
 start to play! (Thanks again DJOneTwoThree) So that's one problem solved. Here's another one, the 
 audio in GTA: SA is buggy. As mentioned in the gamespot full review, sound effects would come and 
 go, and a lot of people are experiencing that bug. Sometimes the sound effect would just disappear, 
 i. e. no chatters, no engine sound, no gunshot audio. I thought this bug is a major bug, how fun 
 can it be to drive around like a madman without hearing your tires screech?
  
  I don't have a gamepad/joypad to play my PC games (something that I should buy soon) , so I stick 
 to the keyboard and mouse control. The controls are responsive, however the mouse control would 
 sometimes stop working, going in and out of the map screen usually fix the problem tho. One thing 
 I found annoying is the mini-games. By default, when CJ works out, we have to button mash.. and 
 the combination is .. L shift and LMB... HUH? Obviously my finger-clicking mouse can mash 3x faster 
 than the L-Shift. Thankfully the keys can be configured to our likings. Oh yeah, there's no gamepad 
 + mouse configuration, so if you use your gamepad, say good-bye to the precision targeting of the 
 mouse. Driving a vehicle would give you some problems as well using the keyboard, as we all keyboard 
 expert know, the keyboard can only take a few simultaneous key presses before it start to beeps. 
 To execute fancy vehicle maneuver, i. e. the donut, where you spin your car in the same spot, you 
 will need to press 3 keys at once (by default, w, s, a) . If youre lucky, the car will spin, I had 
 to use my right hand to press the right directional button while pressing the w and s key w/ my 
 left most of the time, which means I have to let go of my mouse.
  
  Gameplay is simply amazing, anyone that played GTA III & Vice City will be familiar w/ the gameplay. 
 There is just so many things to do in the game, maybe too many. However, I found that sometimes 
 the camera can be pretty annoying, especially while speeding around, seems like the camera is just 
 a wee bit too slow changing the angle when I was making sharp turns. Sure, I can move it w/ the 
 mouse, but it just didn't feel right (note to self: try out the mouse steering option) . The addition 
 of RPG element to the games is a big leap over the other GTA series. All the skills in GTA: SA is 
 upgradeable, shooting, driving, swimming (yes! No more drowning in the pond!) , etc. Furthermore, 
 the ability to change the main characters outfit and physique are impressive, although Im sure 
 that wouldn't stop the modders from making a storm-trooper model for CJ.
  
  I experienced slowdowns after an hour or so, the game would just start to crawl. No, it wasn't 
 chopping, it was slow.. everything was moving in slow motion. When we're just exploring the city, 
 slowdowns are fine.. but the slowdowns would happen when we're speeding around in a vehicle as 
 well, I can't count how many times I've turned the car too sharply because of the slowdown. However, 
 considering the amount of details in the game, this is to be expected (lowering the details would 
 probably help, but dang it! I want to play GTA: SA in full effect!) .
  
  The load time of the game, missions is a blessing. The scenes load almost instantaneously, probably 
 overlapped PS2 several times by comparison (and XBOX version as well it seems) . Saving a game is 
 instantaneous.
  
  The mini-games in the PC version however, feel harder than in PS2. In some mini-games, we'll have 
 to use the numpads for the rhythm games. Something about pressing the PS2 buttons just feel better 
 than pressing keys on a keyboard.
  
  In conclusion, GTA: SA is undoubtedly one of the best games out for PC right now (if not THE best) . 
 However, the bugs that came along w/ the game are pretty annoying as well. Im sure Rockstar will 
 release a patch for it pretty soon. Excellent graphic, amazing audio (in the future, after the 
 bugs are fixed.. I hope) , innovative gameplay. Its a must have for any PC gamer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vahid13610
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 12, 2005 6:38 am PT
Review:  if you haven't bought san andreas for your ps2, it's a game that you should buy and enjoy it.
  all the thing you want from a gta serie is a good gameplay and in san andreas
  the gameplay has 
 improved and that make this game a big game in gta game serie.
  
  The Grand Theft Auto series has always been rather stylish, visually speaking. Vice City did an 
 amazing job of capturing both the look of Miami and the feel of the mid '80s. San Andreas has to 
 live up to that standard while creating four unique landscapes: one for each city and one for the 
 countryside between cities. 
  
  the graghic looks good in 1024x720 resolution and the sound is great.
  
  it's a very addictive 
 game and you will have a great time while playing this game.
  (i am not strong in english language, sorry for bad expressions) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: en-z-io
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2005 2:40 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying, this is one of the best games to hit the PC. 
  
  A lot of people have had trouble playing it because of bugs, etc. So make sure you install new 
 drivers for your sound and video card. You probably want to turn off any uneeded programs running 
 in the background (Anti-virus, stuff like that) .
  
  The gameplay is much like Vice City and III, but with much more stuff added. For example, you can 
 eat food, build up your muscles (Only takes up a few minutes of the actual game) , swim, date, etc. 
 The missions seem to be a lot more fun too. (I actually watch the cutscenes this time!) 
  
  The graphics look pretty nice and some of the landscapes look really beautiful. Driving out in 
 the woods is really a great experience. 
  
  I really love the sound in this game. The voice acting is top notch, the vehicles have a distinct 
 sound to them. One of the only downside is it doesn't exactly have some of the best music, but 
 you can easily get past that because you can add your custom soundtrack to it. Another problem, 
 that has only happened to me once is, the sound suddenly goes out except for the radio and then 
 it just freezes, but again it only happened to me once. 
  
  You really get your money's worth for this game. It takes so many hours to do the main mission, 
 and then getting 100% takes even longer. It has great replay value too.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ewhite07
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 11, 2005 8:43 am PT
Review:  Short Version: The game is simply amazing. It improves on everything set by the first 2 entries 
 in the series. There's so much to do and so many places to go it's hard to even mention it all. 
 Simply put if you liked Vice City and GTA III you'll love this game... go buy it.
  
  Long Version: San Andreas is easily one of the best games I've ever played simply because there's 
 so much to do and so much to see. It's just a lot of fun to play and will keep you addicted for 
 a loooong time. The world of San Andreas is huge it'll take you a few minutes to go from shore 
 to shore by plane and probably upwards of 15 minutes by land (ballpark guess) . The game has a unique 
 feel to it because your environment is constantly changing. You start off fighting rival gangs 
 in the hood which dosen't feel too much like GTA III and Vice City but is really fun to do, but 
 eventually you leave and the game feels a lot more like the previous entries. The graphics on the 
 PC are probably the best if you've got a good computer but even so they still look pretty dated. 
 Some of the reflections and car models look pretty nice though. Sound-wise the game is about on 
 par with Vice City but with better sound effects and voice acting but the soundtrack isn't quite 
 as good as Vice City's. The game is long and will take you upwards of 30 hours to complete the 
 main story alone.
  
  If you've seen GameSpot's video review you know about the sound issues in the game. I also experienced 
 some problems with the sound specifically in the cutscenes. The audio did'nt sync up with the visuals 
 or subtitles because it seemed to cut off the first couple of seconds. It only occurred a couple 
 of times at random points during the game and only after I had been playing for at least 6 hours 
 straight but by restarting the computer the problem was fixed for the remainder of the time I played 
 that day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 11, 2005 5:40 am PT
Review:  You get off a plane ride and collect your bags. After some hassle and long lines at the airport 
 you get into a rent-a-car and start driving back to your "good 'ol days". Then police sirens come 
 from behind you. You pull over only to be hassled even more and arrested for no reason. 
  This is GTA: San Andreas, it captures the full look and feel of the inner cities and puts you smack 
 dab in the middle of gang wars. Though the only difference between the gang wars in SA compared 
 to Vice City or the orginal GTA III is that its a whole lot easier to tell the different gangs 
 apart. No more of just driving around and the first people that start shooting at you are the ones 
 that don't like you. I've played all the GTA's and i have to say this one is better then all of 
 them. Rockstar video's made the game more free and user friendly. Still the same old stuff, steal 
 cars, cause some havoc, out drive/manuever the police and of course the always fun romp in front 
 of the a car as your health starts going up.
  The gameplay in this game is very simple and keeps with the basics of its predecessors. Though 
 you'll start to find out that a lot of the buttons start to overlap depending on what you're doing. 
 A lot of times one single button will have multiple uses depending on the situation so it really 
 puts your memory to the test to remember. The only bad aspect is that on the PC the keys really 
 make you feel like you're playing "twister" with your fingers. Other then that the gameplay is 
 quiet smooth and easy to handle.
  The graphics on the other hand kind of caught me off guard because i was expecting to have some 
 good looking graphics since this is the third in its series. Though low and behold the graphics 
 look like they are about 4 years old. Even people with high end computers will be disappointed 
 by it. The character models seem to take rather simple shapes and when it comes to the limbs (arms/legs) 
 they tend to be really angular. Though what the character models lack the rest of the game takes 
 care of... somewhat. The cars, motorcycles, bikes, planes, etc. are detailed very nicely and down 
 to the engine. You can actually look at your cars engine if you can accomplish knocking your hood 
 clean off and each car model actually has its own engine look so they aren't all the same. Though 
 if you hit anything it really makes you do a double take by the horrible look of what happens to 
 it when it falls to the ground. After hitting a light pole it tends to fall and actually falls 
 right through the concrete which i didn't think was possible. If you hit a traffic light pole the 
 traffic light will actually come apart before even hitting the ground and the destruction looks 
 a lot like somebody just dropped a "large lego's" tower. 
  The sound in this game is very well done and like everybody says, you can't really screw up sound 
 unless you don't even put it in. Even though some of the lip syncing is off with the talking of 
 the characters the camera shots let you ignore it easily. Though the speech in this game really 
 sticks to the inner city lingo right down to the nitty gritty of ebonics and really holds the scenes 
 well. Sooner or later you'll start to hear yourself talking like they talk. It also appears that 
 they have a lot more content for the different radio stations so you won't hear repeats a lot at 
 all which is real nice. 
  I have to say the overall judegment on this game is a must buy because even though the graphics 
 really need some help and the mapping of the keys on a keyboard, there's enough story and enjoyment 
 in this game to let you ignore all the con's. But to anybody wanting this game and reading the 
 reviews for the PC better turn away and walk over to teh consoles because the game plays a lot 
 better on a console rather then a keyboard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xiaor
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 10, 2005 5:46 pm PT
Review:  It's about time. 
  
  Most of us have seen the game on the PS2, and know that it looked awesome. What the PC ppl are 
 going to love, is that fact that it looks 5 times better now. With the PC being the obvious most 
 powerful of the game's platforms, it helps San Andreas become even more epic with the increased 
 draw distance, removal of the fog, to cover up what the PS2 can't handle. The benefit to these 
 upgrades in looks, is that you get a game with alot more atmosphere. All in all, San Andreas looks 
 great on PC, and as long as you have the most recnet drivers for everything, theres no graphical 
 glitches that i've come across.
  
  The most universal con/pro to the PC is its control scheme's with GTA. I have found that the mouse/keyboard 
 setup isnt that bad. But it's not perfect either. The mouse allows you to move 360 degrees around 
 C. J, in or out of car. The downside is driving with the keyboard, its tougher then a joystick and 
 less accurate for sure. 
  The joystick setup is alot better if you have a PS2 style controller, but the shooting isnt as 
 accurate as the mosue/key setup. 
  So you win/lose either way, the only way to really even this out is to have the gamepad on your 
 lap and pick it up when your in the vechiles and jump back to the keyboard when you get out. Which 
 i find not that bad actually. Best of both worlds.
  
  The music in San Andreas is really good, which is to be expected. Although i must admit i enjoyed 
 the Vice City soundtrack alot more. The sound is great on the PC, with the higher standard of sound 
 cards and even the lower budget, it still sonds great.
  
  I can't explain how sweet it is to play this game on a pc, if you have a high end machine, your 
 going to have a hard time putting this one down, or even mid-range. If your on the low end, you 
 may be frustrated by the frame rate jumping, or limiting issues. Which in future patchs should 
 be fixed. Its not a big problem, just make sure your machine meets the minimum specs or higher.
 
  
  Overall, GTA is a masterpiece, it has the gameplay down pat. And now it has the new face lift on 
 the PC. To make a nasty one-two combo.
  
  If you can run it, buy it!!
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thef8lfox
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 10, 2005 4:49 am PT
Review:  GTA: San Andreas had a tough act to follow, following in the footsteps of it's wildly successful 
 predecessor GTA: Vice City, and boy does it deliver. Just when you think the last installation of 
 the GTA series had covered all bases, a new one comes along and blows the lid right off the previous 
 one.
  
  It goes without saying that GTA franchises have awesome gameplay and the replayability factor is 
 endless. San Andreas continues this tradition. Looking at Los Santos in and of itself makes it 
 look bigger than Vice City. There are many things to do this time around one of those being managing 
 your appearance. This time around you get to manage your eating habits as well as your exercise 
 habits. Eat too much without exercise and you become fat, starve and you start losing stamina. 
 While doing this doesn't take too much of one's time, it adds a realistic touch to the game. The 
 RPGesque elements of the game are a nice subtle touch, everything has a skill level that you build 
 up and you are rewarded with bonuses for that skill. New to the game are girlfriends that you can 
 befriend, girlfriends give you bonuses such as holding your cash and "equipment" while you get 
 "wasted" or "busted".
  
  Most people consider GTA to have poor graphics, while that is true to some extent, for a game of 
 the scope and extent of GTA, I consider the graphics to be amazing. With all settings turned on 
 high the game is truly remarkable, especially considering the fact that there are virtually no 
 load times whatsoever. For those without a top of the line PC, the game still looks good on lower 
 settings with AA turned on to 1.
  
  The voice acting in the game is incredible. The voices convey the desired emotion in a given situation. 
 Unlike such beloved games such as NFSU2 and PoP2: Warrior Within where the characters were slaughtered 
 by sound acting that seemed fake and so out of place, the voice acting in San Andreas' actually 
 sounds like it belongs to the environment the game is set in, kudos to Rockstar for getting this 
 right. Unlike Vice City however, where the music felt like it was ripped right out of that time 
 and era, the music in San Andreas falls a little short of expectations; the rock stations feel 
 a little out of place for the San Andreas setting, but nevertheless the DJs are just as good as 
 before and the hilarious ads gives you something to chuckle about during your commute. New to the 
 game is the feature to build your own custom playlists that you can play back while you drive.
 
  
  All in all, the game is simply fabulous. The storyline gets you hooked right from the moment you 
 step foot on San Andreas. The endlessly free roaming world coupled with the great sound cast and 
 the beefed up graphics offered by the PC makes this game well worth the 6 month wait and is a must 
 play for all PC Aficionados or anyone who hasn't played the game yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stedmon8
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 9, 2005 9:46 pm PT
Review:  The game is very impressive and everything is remastered very nicely. All the new cars and modding 
 of cars and clothes. Ps2 version is best because of the smooth play and quick loading. Pc version 
 out beat Xbox cause of the graphics. The first part of the games is the best because you can see 
 Rockstars exlporing different enthics like the hood the getto that a lot of game are scared to 
 do. Its about time its a good game with a black man in it but when rockstar explore with the getto 
 they do a very good job. Everything match up with a real hood (I am from south central no joke) . 
 So the best part of the game is when go into the hood because something you never did before. Once 
 you stop doing mission in the hood it turn into GTA3 and Vice City. Being more of a mob... than 
 a gangsta. But this game is a lot more humorous and fun to play but i still say GTA3 is the best 
 out of the series because it redefine action/adventure.... ok. But overall the is a great and exciting 
 something new game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: md123
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 9, 2005 8:00 pm PT
Review:  Game Name: GTA San Andreas 
  Platform: PC 
  Format/Region: PAL 
  No. Players:1 
  
  Plot: You play as Carl Johnson, "CJ", five years ago you left the harsh unforgiving life in Los 
 Santos, San Andreas. You are forced to return as you learn your mother has been murdered, the thing 
 is you Family, friends and the life you left behind is now falling apart. As if you dont have enough 
 to worry about you are framed buy two bent cops, unless you co-operate with them your new life 
 back in Los Santos will soon become a life in prison. Its up to you to repair the damage and take 
 over the entire state of San Andreas for you and your gang. 
  
  Gameplay: Those who have played any of the newer GTA games such as Vice City or GTA3 will know 
 what to expect. Those who havent are in for a treat, this game combines shooting, driving, bike 
 riding, planes, trains, helicopters, boats. The amount of variety in this game is unbelievable. 
 It is what is known usually as a "sandbox" type game, where you are given the plot and its up to 
 you to play it as you like. The size of the area to explore is vast, 3 major cities and I do mean 
 major, each with their own special features such as airports etc. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics have been improved immensly over the PS2 version. The draw distance (how 
 far you can see) is large, much farther then Vice City's. The car's shine in the sunlight, heat 
 haze rises from the roads, so many nice touches to mention. 
  
  Sound: The sound as in other GTA games is fantastic. The radio stations go well with the style 
 of the game. Some reviews claimed there were some major sound problems but so far I have not noticed 
 any. The feature of custom soundtracks is a bonus if you get tired of the radio stations. 
  
  Plus Points: Vastly improved graphics, custom soundtracks, fantastic plot. 
  
  Downsides: 
 The game is available on DVD only 
  
  Overall: GTA is back and better then ever before. 
  Score (out of 10) :9
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xbxjetraider
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 9, 2005 9:24 am PT
Review:  The original GTA from back in the days was a great game. Comming a long way, GTA 3 was the 1st 
 game to feature a fully 3D enviroment that allowed us to roam in the world while still being in 
 the story. Vice city, added to GTA, allowing us to buy and control the world around us to a small 
 extent.
  
  Rockstar has once again, outdone it's predecessors. GTA: San Andreas is the best in the series. 
 Los Santos alone is huge. IMO it's bigger than both Liberty City, and Vice City combined, and thats 
 just Los Santos. I've yet to explore all of it, and I've yet to reach San Fierro, and Las Venturas. 
 
  
  GTA: SA seems rather long. The story isn't boring, infact it's very interesting, considering the 
 fact that it isn't based directly from a film, it adds more suspense to it. The sheer capacity 
 of this game is more than enough for hours and hours of gameplay. 
  
  The games sound is also spectacular. The soudtrack may not be on par with Vice City, but it has 
 enough to capture the time of the early 90s'... Though their should've been more Tupac. The cars 
 engines vary from cars to cars, and bikes to bikes. The voice acting is great, featuring Samuel 
 L. Jackson as crooked officer Tenpenny. The best feature in the sound though is that game lets 
 you use your own music while you play. You can even have a radio DJ from the game play your tracks.
 
  
  GTA: SA adds more to gameplay. A few RPG elements are thrown into the mix. CJ can gain wieght, 
 build muscle, and increase his skills. The healthier you live, the longer CJ will live.
  
  In the early 90s' LA was in the midst of a monstrous gang war, and in SA you'll be caught in the 
 mix. It features many rival gangs, and territories for you to take over. Also you can loose territories, 
 but you can always get them back.
  
  As far the game looks, well the engine is rather old. THeirs only a few minor tweaks here and their, 
 but nothing new about it. All in all the game still looks good, better than the other two versions 
 as well, and theirs virtually only one load screen, if your machine is capable of it though.
  
  Anyone looking to get into GTA should pick this one up on any of the 3 platforms. Anyone who 
 loved previous GTA game, may find the game a bit repitious, but would still love it since theirs 
 so much more to do. ANother plus, is that the game comes on one DvD disk, which is great becuase 
 you don't have 5 disk just to install the game. The game packaging is nice too, it adds a collectors 
 feel to it, it's comes like a hard covered book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smellypj
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 8, 2005 8:18 pm PT
Review:  As soon as I instaslled GTA, I immiadentially saw the defrence in the graphics. All of the characters 
 had been smoothed out, and the overall look is improved. When you start you should change the mouse 
 look to non-inverted, it makes it easier to drive. When you start the controls feel awkward, but 
 I got used to them quickly. This is easily one of the strongest computer games out there, and the 
 instant replay mode is so cool (I got one of me doing a terminator stunt) . So if you dont got PS2 
 get this it is great. Also the best part, is how the loading times, are almost not there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plague32390
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 8, 2005 6:50 pm PT
Review:  The latest installment of GTA has finally come back to its home on the PC, and it couldnt be any 
 better. Ok so first off there are a few techinical issues with sound and some people may have trouble 
 playing this game with the graphics set on very high because Rockstar really did get the graphics 
 engine and overhaul this time.
  
  Graphics - Not only are the textures more crisp and clear but they also added dynamic shadows and 
 soft shadows in the mix, and you can see all of this glory in high resolution 1280X1024 with 4xAA 
 and a draw distance that puts the other versions of San Andreas to shame.
  
  Gameplay - Other then a few changes in the camera system and little bit different control scheme 
 its the same GTA we have come to know and love. Keyboard and Mouse   Joypad.
  
  Sound - Just as great as the others, music to fit the times, commercials to poke fun at society 
 of the time, and a all star cast of voices that makes the Disney movies quiver in insecurity. There 
 are a few issues with the sound cutting out but I found out if you die (dont ask me how it works) 
 or restart the game it fixes it, and if your comp is fast enough it wont take but a minute to exit 
 out, restart the game up, and load the saved game.
  
  Value - I dont know what to say, I played the PS2 version and I thought "How could a game this 
 good be so bad on a console?" I have the answer and its "Because its on a console" It made the 
 move to PC and the game itself got 100x better.
  
  If you plan on buying only a few games this year, make one of em GTA: San Andreas. You just might 
 wanna wait for a bit for a patch to come out to fix the sound issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDWilliams05
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 8, 2005 12:26 pm PT
Review:  This is by far, the best in the series. The slight RPG style stat system is the perfect addition 
 that really sends this game soaring. The packaging is real original and unique as well. The game 
 is just simply awesome.
  
  Let's get down to business:
  
  Gameplay: Just like GTAIII and VC, you have the third person perspective of CJ and you go around 
 kicking butt. The first few missions act as a tutorial to get you used to the controls, and introduce 
 the characters you will be encountering. There were some nice little touches to this game that 
 i thought really added to the immersion of the game. When the NPC pedestrians talk to you, you 
 can give a negative or positive reply. I thought that was very clever. Also with the get fat and 
 get skinny and so forth of the stat system works really nicely into the gameplay. Also its cool 
 that any vehicle can be used now, along with swimming, and climbing fences. The game play in short 
 is perfect however, within the first hour or so I was playing the game. I had an instance where 
 the game would act as their was no mouse attached. After going to the menu, moving the mouse a 
 bit it would then respond in game. It hasn't happened sense, so i could have been one of my background 
 apps that caused it so I am not going to blame the game yet, unless it happens tonight when I close 
 all my background apps.
  
  Graphics: Just like the GTAIII and the VC graphics, however they are a little smoother, and cleaner, 
 the blocky hands are still their but the facial expressions are getting better and better each 
 time out. The weapons are the best looking yet and the building are awesomely done, the town looks 
 real (can't wait to get to the countryside)
  
  Sound: The sound is awesome, the dialog is hardcore gangster movie, and the music to me really 
 sets teh setting for the time period. Yeah they did choose some off the wall music, but the DJ's 
 really make it worth it. The gun fire sounds a little flat but its forgivable and tolerable, so 
 far i have expierenced 4 of the several weapons, and each one although flat is distinguishable, 
 and clear.
  
  Value: So far its awesome, i can see lots of replay value, simply because of the open ended game 
 play, and the shear volume of stuff to complete. easily to get all the missions, side missions, 
 and hidden stuff to get the 100% completion its going to take a long time. Which is something I 
 like.
  
  Tilt: Because I am partial to the series, i am going to really tilt my score, and also because 
 the games dialog just rocks. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
