-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Grand Theft Auto IV
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/grandtheftauto4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Superb character-driven story.
 Liberty City feels alive.
 Multiplayer modes that let 32 players go wild across the entire city.
 Genuinely funny radio and TV shows, comedy acts, and character dialogue.
 Customizable radio station and video editor are great additions for PC.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Occasional problems with friendly AI.
 Some minor visual quirks.
 Windows Live account needed to save progress.
 Mouse and keyboard controls aren't nearly as good as Xbox 360 controller.
 Insanely high system requirements.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  8, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.8, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 5,156 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Rockstar Games
Developer: Rockstar Toronto
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Dec 2, 2008 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Performance issues prevent this lazy PC port of a superb console game from being the best Grand 
 Theft Auto yet. 

  Stepping off a boat in the shoes of illegal immigrant Niko Bellic as he arrives in Liberty City 
 at the start of Grand Theft Auto IV, you can tell immediately that Rockstar North's latest offering 
 is something quite special. Yes, this is another GTA game in which you'll likely spend the bulk 
 of your time stealing cars and gunning down cops and criminals, but it's also much more than that. 
 GTAIV is a game with a compelling and nonlinear storyline, a great protagonist who you can't help 
 but like, and a plethora of online multiplayer features in addition to its lengthy story mode. 
 The PC version adds a customizable radio station and a video editor to the package, and also ups 
 the multiplayer count from 16 to 32 players. It's not all good news, though; the game suffers from 
 some noticeable performance issues even on rigs that far exceed the unreasonably high recommended 
 system specifications, and you need to be signed in to Windows Live to save your progress in the 
 single-player game. This should have been the best GTA game yet, but it's inferior to its console 
 counterparts.  

           Liberty City has changed a lot since 2001.      

  One of the many things that set GTAIV apart from its predecessors is Liberty City, which is more 
 convincing as a living, breathing urban environment than anything you've seen in a game before, 
 and which bears little resemblance to its namesake in 2001's GTAIII. Liberty's diverse population 
 believably attempts to go about its daily business, seemingly unaware that several criminal factions 
 are at war in the city. Niko has no such luck. He's compelled to start working for one of the factions 
 shortly after arriving, when he learns that his cousin Roman has some potentially fatal gambling 
 debts. Niko's military experience makes him a useful freelancer for employers in the business of 
 killing, and though his reluctance to carry out their orders is often apparent, he does whatever 
 is asked of him in the hope that completing missions for other people will ultimately give him 
 the means to complete his own.  

  But Niko doesn't have to do everything that's asked of him. On several occasions as you play through 
 his story, you'll be presented with decisions that afford you the option of doing what you think 
 is right rather than blindly following instructions. You don't necessarily have to kill a target 
 if he or she promises to disappear, but you have to weigh the risk of your employer finding out 
 against the possibility that the person whose life you spare might prove useful later in the game, 
 or even have work for you in the form of bonus missions. To say anything more specific on this 
 subject would be to risk spoiling one of GTAIV's most interesting new features, but suffice it 
 to say that every decision you make has consequences, and you'll likely want to play through the 
 game at least twice to see how the alternatives unfold.  

  Grand Theft Auto IV's story mode can be beaten in less than 30 hours, and there are so many optional 
 activities and side missions to take part in along the way that you can comfortably double that 
 number if you're in no hurry. The majority of the story missions task you with making deliveries 
 and/or killing people, and play out in much the same way as those in previous games. With that 
 said, most of the missions are a lot easier this time around, partly because Niko is a more agile 
 and efficient killer than any of his predecessors, and partly because the LCPD seemingly has better 
 things to do than hunt down an illegal immigrant who's gunning down undesirables all over the city. 
 Some of the more imaginative missions sprinkled throughout the story include a kidnapping, a bank 
 heist, and a job interview. The cinematic cutscenes associated with story missions are superbly 
 presented and are the sequences in which the game's characters really shine. Without exception, 
 the characters you encounter benefit from great animation, great voice work, and superbly expressive 
 faces. They're not always so impressive when they join you on a mission and refuse to do what they're 
 supposed to (for example, not following you on an escort mission, or failing to negotiate a doorway) . 
 Nevertheless, these problems are few and far between, and they're made less painful by the new 
 "replay mission" option that you're presented with whenever you fail.  

           He's a gun for hire, but Niko Bellic is the most likeable GTA protagonist to date.    
   

  New abilities in Niko's arsenal include scaling fences and walls anywhere he can get a foothold, 
 shimmying along ledges, and, most importantly, taking cover behind objects. The ability to stick 
 close to walls, parked cars, and the like at the touch of a button makes GTAIV's gunplay a huge 
 improvement over that in previous games, and, in tandem with the new targeting system, it also 
 makes it a lot easier. Enemies are rarely smart enough to get to you while you're in cover, and 
 given that you can lock your targeting reticle on to them even when they're hidden, all you have 
 to do is wait for them to poke their heads out and then pick them off with a minimum of effort. 
 Locking on to enemies targets their torso by default, but you can use the right analog stick to 
 fine-tune your aim and kill them more quickly with a headshot or two. Playing without using the 
 lock-on feature is viable if you're using a mouse and keyboard, but makes things more difficult 
 on the Xbox 360 controller. You'll need to master the technique at some point, though, so that 
 you can shoot blindly at enemies from positions of cover when you dare not poke your own head out 
 to line up the shot.  

  Given the amount of trouble that you get into as you play through the story mode, it's inevitable 
 that the police are going to get involved from time to time, even when their presence isn't a scripted 
 feature of your mission. Liberty City's boys in blue are quick to respond when you get flagged 
 with a wanted level of between one and six stars, but they're not nearly as tough to deal with 
 as their counterparts in previous GTA games. They don't drive as quickly when pursuing you, they 
 rarely bother to set up roadblocks, and you'll need to blow up practically an entire city block 
 before the FIB (that's not a typo) show up. Furthermore, you're given an unfair advantage in the 
 form of your GPS system; when you're not using it to plot a valid route to any waypoint of your 
 choosing, it doubles as a kind of police scanner. Any time you have a brush with the law, the GPS 
 shows you the exact locations of patrol cars and cops on foot in your area, and highlights the 
 circular area (centered on your last-known whereabouts) where they're concentrating their search. 
 To escape, all you need to do is move outside the circle and then avoid being seen for 10 seconds 
 or so, which is often best achieved by finding a safe spot and just sitting there. It's not a bad 
 system in theory, but in practice it makes dodging the law a little too easy, especially when your 
 wanted level is low and the search area is small.  

  When you're not running missions for criminals, taking part in street races, stealing cars to order, 
 or randomly causing trouble, you'll find that there are plenty of opportunities to unwind in Liberty 
 City. Some of these optional activities offer tangible rewards that can prove useful in missions 
 later on, whereas others are just a fun way to kill time and take in more of GTAIV's superb humor. 
 For example, you can watch television, listen to numerous radio stations, check out some genuinely 
 funny shows (including some big-name acts) at cabaret and comedy clubs, and use a computer to surf 
 the in-game Internet.  

           In case you were in any doubt as to how the series got its name.      

  GTAIV's Internet 
 is filled with spoofs of all the kinds of Web sites that you'd only ever look at accidentally or 
 when you know there's no danger of getting caught. Some of them can be found only by clicking on 
 links in spam e-mails, whereas others are advertised prominently on the search page. There's plenty 
 of amusing stuff to find if you spend some time in one of the "TW@" Internet cafes, but the most 
 interesting site by far is an online dating agency through which you can meet women who, if they 
 like your profile, will agree to go on dates with you. Dating and socializing with friends is something 
 you can spend as much or as little of your time doing as you like, and though the people you meet 
 can occasionally be demanding to the point that they become irritating, keeping them happy invariably 
 benefits you in some way.  

  Keeping friends and dates happy means spending time with them and doing things that they enjoy, 
 and all of them have different personalities. Some friends like to join you for minigames such 
 as tenpin bowling, pool, or darts, whereas others prefer to go out for a meal, get drunk, or take 
 in a show. Of course, dates are much fussier than regular friends, and their opinions of you are 
 influenced not only by whether you pick them up on time, where you take them, and whether you try 
 your luck when dropping them at home, but also by a number of much more subtle factors. Dates will 
 comment on things like the car you drive, how you drive it, and the clothes you wear. They'll even 
 notice if you wear the same outfit two dates in a row, though not all of them will be bothered 
 by it. The rewards that you get when another character likes you enough vary depending on who it 
 is. Without wishing to give away specifics, befriending a lawyer can prove useful if you're having 
 trouble with the cops, for example, and having a nurse on your friends list can literally be a 
 lifesaver.     

  You'll keep in touch with your dates, friends, and some of your enemies using another of GTAIV's 
 great new features: a cell phone. It's hard to believe that something as simple as a cell phone 
 could add so much to a game like this, but it's implemented so well that it's hard to imagine leaving 
 any of Niko's safe houses without it. If you've ever used a cell phone in real life, you'll have 
 no problem operating this one and, given that it's controlled using only the arrow and Enter keys 
 or your controller's D pad and a single button, it's easy to call up acquaintances and take calls 
 even while driving. There's no unwieldy conversation system to deal with; you simply choose which 
 friend you want to call, what you want to talk about (it could be work, a fun activity, or asking 
 for a favor) and then, assuming that he or she answers the phone, the conversation plays out. Incoming 
 calls are even easier, though they occasionally come at inopportune (or amusing) times; hearing 
 your cell phone's signal interfere with your car radio is the least of your worries when you consider 
 the possibility of a date calling you while you're with a prostitute or embroiled in a gunfight 
 with the Mafia. Incidentally, new ringtones and visual themes for your phone can be purchased via 
 the in-game Internet, which is typical of the incredible attention to detail that you'll come to 
 take for granted as you play.  

           Your friends in GTAIV invariably come with benefits.      

  To give you some idea 
 of just how much thought has clearly gone into the crafting of GTAIV, even the act of stealing 
 a parked car, which is still achieved by pushing a single button, can now result in any number 
 of different things happening. If the door is locked, as is often the case, Niko will smash a window 
 with his elbow or his foot to get inside. Once inside the car, he may need to hot-wire it to get 
 it started; you can speed up the process slightly by using the shoulder buttons on your controller. 
 If the car has an alarm, it'll sound for several seconds and cause the headlights to flash on and 
 off as you drive away -- practically begging any nearby cops to come after you. Stealing cars with 
 drivers and/or passengers inside opens up lots more possibilities, the most amusing of which is 
 someone (possibly you) getting an arm caught in a door and dragged along as the vehicle speeds 
 away.  

  Most of the vehicles in GTAIV, like those in previous games, have very loose handling that makes 
 it easy for you to perform Hollywood-style U-turns, skids around corners, and the like. You can 
 play through most of the missions without ever violating a traffic law if you really want to, but 
 you can get away with (and will have a lot more fun) driving like a lunatic, provided that you 
 don't collide with any police vehicles or mow down too many pedestrians. A neat touch when driving 
 with the default camera view is that the camera, which is positioned a few feet behind the rear 
 bumper of the car, centers on you rather than on the vehicle, effectively offering the vehicular 
 equivalent of an over-the-shoulder view. When you take the control of something sporty, the camera 
 also positions itself much closer to the ground, which adds to the sensation of speed.  

  With an Xbox 360 controller, the vehicle handling is difficult to fault, regardless of whether 
 you're in a sports car, a garbage truck, a motorcycle, a speedboat, or a helicopter. The mouse-and-keyboard 
 combo doesn't work nearly as well as the controller when you're at the controls of a vehicle and, 
 while it's still possible to win races and such, the WASD keys are no substitute for an analog 
 stick and two analog triggers. Regardless of which control setup you opt for, you might notice 
 one odd quirk that has been a constant ever since GTAIII: When taking the controls of certain vehicles, 
 you'll suddenly notice a  lot  more of the same vehicle on the roads. It's not a big deal, and 
 it isn't detrimental to the gameplay, but it's a little jarring if you get into one of the more 
 unusual vehicles in the game -- for example, the equivalent of either a Ferrari or a pickup truck -- and 
 suddenly find that the city is filled with them. That particular quirk is pretty common in some 
 of the multiplayer modes as well, though you'll likely be too busy keeping an eye out for other 
 players to take any notice when you venture online.  

           Multiplayer games are an opportunity for up to 32 players to get together in Liberty City. 

  Getting online in Grand Theft Auto IV couldn't be easier, though you need to have both Windows 
 Live and the Rockstar Social Club application running in the background to do so. You simply select 
 the multiplayer option on your cell phone, choose which type of game you want to host or join, 
 and then enter a lobby and wait for the game to start. The PC game supports 32 players where the 
 console versions supported 16, but even games with as many as 16 players can be difficult to find 
 depending on which mode you're looking to play. There are more than a dozen different multiplayer 
 modes to choose from, and although some of them are variations on similar themes, there's certainly 
 no shortage of variety. As the host of a multiplayer session, you also have the freedom to greatly 
 customize all of the game types with variables such as friendly fire, police presence, weapons 
 sets, traffic levels, radar functionality, and many more. You can choose where you'd like your 
 game to take place as well, considering that many gameplay modes can be played either on a specific 
 Liberty City island or across the entire map.  

  Even conventional-sounding modes such as Deathmatch and Race feel quite different than anything 
 that you've played before. And in addition to those, there are objective-based games in which you're 
 tasked with completing missions similar to those in the single-player game: a team-based Cops 'n 
 Crooks mode, a Turf War mode in which teams compete for control of territories, a carjacking mode, 
 three cooperative missions that support up to four players, and more. With the right group of people, 
 there's no reason why you can't have a lot of fun with every single mode that's available. We experienced 
 a few frame rate issues and lag that caused other players and their vehicles to jump around the 
 screen at times, but for the most part GTAIV's online play is a real treat. One especially neat 
 touch is that, as a passenger in a vehicle being driven by another player, you can mark waypoints 
 on the GPS system for your driver using a map that tracks the locations of other players and objectives. 

  If you're wondering about differences between the PC game and the previously released PlayStation 
 3 and Xbox 360 versions of Grand Theft Auto IV, the truth is that even with its handful of extra 
 features the PC version isn't quite as easy to recommend. That's largely because, even on hardware 
 that easily exceeds the extremely high recommended system requirements, the frame rate struggles 
 to maintain a steady 30 frames per second and regularly dips as low as 15 when the onscreen action 
 gets crazy. Oddly, this doesn't have a big impact on gameplay, but it's noticeable nonetheless. 
 Frame rate inconsistencies, a lack of antialiasing, and known issues with some graphics cards notwithstanding, 
 the PC game looks a little better than its console counterparts overall. You might find some blurry 
 textures that don't appear to have been created with PC resolutions in mind, but for the most part 
 playing on the PC affords you an even sharper look at the game's incredible attention to detail. 

           With the Video Editor mode you can share memorable moments online.      

  The audio in the PC version of GTAIV is every bit as impressive as that in the console games, and 
 can take a lot of the credit for why Liberty City feels so alive. True to form, GTAIV's soundtrack 
 has plenty of great licensed songs and, unlike other games we could mention, it doesn't force the 
 artist and track information down your throat with pop-up windows that detract from gameplay. However, 
 if you  want  that information, you can simply dial up a song-recognition service on your cell 
 phone and, after a few seconds, receive it in a text message. Genius. New for the PC version is 
 the Independence FM radio station, which, in between the usual assortment of commercials and such, 
 will play tracks from your own music collection. The other radio stations' playlists will be hard 
 to beat, but the option to try is a great addition.  

  Another new feature for GTAIV on the PC is a Video Editor mode that, provided you're willing to 
 spend some time with it, is a great way to get creative with and share some of your most memorable 
 moments in Liberty City. With it, you can edit multiple clips together as well as add custom music, 
 camera filters, and onscreen text to your movie before uploading it to the Rockstar Social Club. 
 Capturing raw gameplay footage is as easy as hitting a single button to start and finish recording, 
 and when you're ready to watch it back or start editing, the Video Editor mode can be accessed 
 via your in-game cell phone.  

  Grand Theft Auto IV is a game that, in spite of its technical shortcomings on the PC, you simply 
 have to play. The single-player game, which you can still play long after you complete the story, 
 is the series' best by far, and the multiplayer features are good enough that you'll likely have 
 no problem finding people to play with for many months to come. The minor flaws that you'll experience 
 are no more difficult to overlook than those in previous GTA games, and they're greatly outnumbered 
 by the features that will impress and surprise you anytime you think you've already seen everything 
 that the game has to offer. There's lots to see in Liberty City, so you'd best get started.  

 
      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (358 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: arijit_2404
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 10:22 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto was released for console only. After one long year it is released in PC platform. 
 And Rockstar made it a mixed bag. 
  
  It is a great looking game. Graphics is excellent, Sound, characterization is very good - in fact 
 best in the GTA series. On the other hand, the game is seriously lacking optimization. Even on 
 a machine which can run Crysis at high settings, GTA IV is crawling at 30-35 FPS. I think it is 
 a bad port and it should be released after more careful development and testing. Is it released 
 in a hurry to keep fans enthusiastic?
  
  What I like? 
  + Graphics: The best graphics ever seen in GTA franchise. It's at par with Crysis at times. Animation 
 is simply superb.
  + Openness: It is the best selling point of any GTA game. And GTA 4 is the king of all of them.
 
  + Gameplay: Overall I liked GTA 4 gameplay much more than any other GTA games. Missions are much 
 more well-thought and carefully scattered over the game.
  
  I hate,
  - Optimization: It is a poorly optimized game. My C2D e8400 + 4 GB RAM + HD4850 could run Crysis 
 at high settings in 1440x900 resolution and I was getting 40+ FPS. GTA 4 could not give 25+ FPS. 
 Even after patch 2, I am getting 35 FPS. It was not properly optimized for multi-core CPUs, at 
 least not like Crysis.
  
  Overall I could give it more but unless I get better experience with future patch, I would stick 
 to this rating.
  
  We should have got better experience after one year of waiting. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avval_xstar
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2009 5:33 am PT
Review:  three patches and the game is still deadly slow!!!!
  
  i was too excited the day i bought this game. A little too excited.
  
  let me make a confession 
 before you people read any further. I have a very weak and ordinary system. Nothing big and nothing 
 great. A stupid 1 gb 9500gt, xp sp3 32 bit, core 2 @ 2.2 ghz, 2 gb ram. nothing great.
  
  my first impression of the game was wow. the graphics semd amazing. I am a very big fan of grand 
 theft auto. So is everyone in my cpuntry. In my first run even the music seemed amazing. But 10 minutes 
 into the game and the excitement vanished. The framerate went all down the drain. The only thing 
 that still impresses me is the physics effects.
  
  Let me be honest. This game is not for the high quality gamers or for the guys who want something 
 to show off their gtx series graphics cards!! This game is purely for gta fans. This game is for 
 people who can and will withstand any amount of performance lag just to play this game. this game 
 requires dedication my friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anitrex
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2009 1:42 am PT
Review:  This Review is a head on comparison between GTA 4 and GTA San Andreas.
  
  Story-The story in GTA 4 is compelling but most of it remains unexplained. The same goes for GTA 
 SA. So the factor that really makes the difference is the scope. And GTA 4 really takes it away from 
 GTA SA in this field.
  Winner: GTA 4
  (1 Point)
  
  Graphics-GTA 4 undoubtably thrashes GTA SA as far as the graphics and animations are concerned. The 
 obvious reason for this is the availibility of new more powerful next gen hardwares.
  Winner: GTA4
  (1 point)
  
  Gameplay
  Part 1-Combat and General Gameplay: The combat system 
 of GTA SA is simply no match against the GTA 4 combat system which for the first time in the GTA 
 series utilizes the cover system. The physics engine and AI of GTA 4 is also dozens of notches higher 
 than that of GTA SA.
  Winner: GTA 4
  (2 Point)
  
  Part 2-Variety: This is where the GTA 4 gets badly beaten up. It simply and for no obvious reasons 
 fails to offer the kind of variety and freedom that GTA SA offered.
  Winner: GTA SA
  (No Points)
  
  Final Rating:1+1+2 = 4/5 
  or 
  8/10 (on a 10 point scale) .
  
  Conclusion:
 
  So in the end GTA 4 althought a great game is nothing exceptional over its previous couterpart. Still 
 its defenitely worth a try and has something for everyone and anyone in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cool5845
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2009 5:55 am PT
Review:  Well when it came out on the Xbox 360 and PS3 i was so sad and i watched the videos and dreamed 
 of Gta IV. I couldn`t also play it in electronic shops but i continued my life :D. Well when 3. dec 
 came i was so happy and on the next day the original Gta IV PC was installing on my PC and i couldn`t 
 belive it. Finnaly i got the game of my dreams :P. I had a noob videocard and i had to accept with 
 800x600 but i made the game 60%. Well it was really fun. I got a Radeon 4850 and the game exp is 
 better. Now to the real review :) .
  ---------STORY --------
  The story is great and really addicting. I like the story its also a little bit of feelings and 
 stuff. The cutscenes in the game are really long but that is what makes it good. You can also choose 
 to kill the target or leave him alone and thats really cool. Well in the end there is 2 choices: 
 Roman will die or you girlfriend will die. Its awesome and it makes the game really coo -- oooo ---oool. In 
 my game Roman died and the game auto saved. Okay now to the next stage. The story is 9.9/10 but it 
 aint just 10 :) .
  ---------GAMEPLAY ---------
  Also the gameplay is ADDICTING. The first week i did nothing but Gta IV i didn`t eaven check my 
 mail or MSN. When my PC was turned on then IV for me. When i was in the middle of the game it got 
 boring. Ups im talking about other stuff. Errrmm gameplay. Really realistic and fun fun fun. When you 
 drive a bike and you have to wear a helmet like OMG its so awesome. And in the game you can almost 
 do anything you  a normal person, Chill or kill peale. I like 
 the way the people die and the peds on the stret are different allot of times ermm....60% or 70% 
 maybe. Well cars are awesome the cars are from year 2000 and on well nowadays and thats awesom. When 
 you shoot a car there will be bullet holes and if you ram your car the car will look awesome when 
 its destroyed and stuff. Internet cafes and stuff also in the game. Well in the gameplay i hate some 
 things: Few Clothes, The emergency service you call are totally brainless like one time i drove 
 over a guy (iwasplayng like im a ped :P`) . So i drove over him and called the ambulance. The ambulance 
 drove over his head. Well yes computer mistake and it was darn funny sad that i didnt record it. And 
 sometimes the doctors just cant see the ped that s hurt. Okayokay its a bad bad thing about the 
 game forget it. Well for gameplay i give 8/10
  ---------GRAPICHS ----------
  Errm just a little word REALISTIC AND BEUTIFULLY RAGED.10/10
  --------CONSOLE DIFFERENCE --------
 
  Well i have no idea why the PS3 version is 10 because my friend has Gta IV on PS3 and it laggs 
 like hell and in videos and in all console Gta IV the color is so stupid sooooo colorish like in 
 a candy land its so.... ermm not cool. Also i think its better to play on keyboard.... okay ermm okay 
 i dont want to make a war here.
  ----------FOR WHO --------------
  People who like a long game, fun, action and can outstand violence 10/10 WORTH GAME BUY  
 GAME GOT BORING TO ME IN 2 WEEKS AND ALSO ALL MY FRIENDS. I WILL PROMISE IT WILL GO BORING TO YOU 
 ATLEAST IN 1 MONTH.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmeads
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2009 6:07 am PT
Review:  waited this game for so long. And the wait was even longer till it finally came out on PC. I don't 
 have any of the consoles so I was hoping it finally came out for the PC like the other games in 
 the series. 
  This has probably been said like a million times before me by everyone else, but this GTA really 
 is the best in the series. In my opinion the fact that Rockstar has taken a more realistic approach 
 with this one is just great. The game is more realistic than its predecessors but thankfully that 
 realism hasn't lowered the fun factor at all. You can still do all sorts of crazy stunts, blow 
 things up and so on. And the new physics engine (especially Euphoria) make it even more fun. 
 
  I'm going to tell you about my only criticism about this game right now - it's quite a bad console 
 port. At least it was really bad when it first came out. By now (after two patches) it's getting 
 better though, the last patch gave me about 10 FPS boost. But still the performance should be better. 
 I can't complain about the controls because I have never played either PS3 nor 360 version of the 
 game. I think they're are good with keyboard and mouse. But you can occasionally see strange things 
 control solutions - you have to exit various menus by either pressing E, Backspace or Escape - 
 in my opinion this is kind of consolish (guess I just made up a new word :D) . But other than controls 
 and performance, it is truly an amazing game. 
  The game takes place in rebuilt version of Liberty City, the city we have seen in the first GTA 
 and GTA III (also in GTA Liberty City Stories but I've never played that one) . This version of 
 Liberty City is by far the largest and realistic one. It is heavily based on real New York City 
 and really is just a wonderful piece of art and architecture. 
  The protagonist this time is Niko Bellic - an immigrant from southern Eastern Europe, he's native 
 language is Serbian, but it isn't clear if he really is from Serbia. Niko is a veteran of Bosnian 
 War and has a really troubled conscience because some horrible things that had happened to him 
 and his friends in the war. 
  Niko was invited to Liberty City by his cousin Roman, who claimed in his e-mails to Niko that he 
 is living in a big mansion, that he's very rich and owns sports cars. Of course this is not true, 
 he's actually in big dept to all kinds of crazy characters. 
  Soon into the game however you'll find out that Roman's lies are just one of the reasons Niko arrived 
 in Liberty.
  I'm not going to tell anything else about the story of GTA IV other than it's just incedibly well 
 written and wonderful in every way.
  The soundtrack is also great, including music from a wide variety of genres. The music is delivered 
 once again by radios stations that can be heard while driving the vehicles in the game. 
  I've played this game now for over two months, I've completed the story four times and still haven't 
 had enough of it. The game is just so addictive and great. Even if you just take Niko to a walk 
 in Middle Park or Alderney City or wherever, everything around you is always just so well-crafted, 
 unique and breathtaking.
  Everyone should play this game, even people how don't like violence in games. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ill_be_back
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 9:40 am PT
Review:  GTA IV has certianly come a long way in gameplay, the action is slower and more realistic, and 
 gun battles are much more challenging. The 'Heat' style shootout was a brilliant level! Driving 
 is more realistic too, although when turning corners you have to move the look in order to see 
 what's coming can be frustrating!
  
  The city is great, bustling with cars and people. Not too big as well, unlike San Andreas where 
 loosing your car in the badlands or having to get from one city to another would be a mission in 
 itself.
  
  What lets this game down however, bugs aside, is that players don't get involved in the story as 
 much. There are too many characters you meet along the way who are all pretty similar and do not 
 give the story much direction. What happened to the great story lines of Vice City and great cast 
 of characters and inspired voice actors? Niko is a bit plain and simple, not charismatic and fun 
 to play like Tommy Vercetti.
  
  The radio stations seem ok, but i've resorted to Independence FM so havn't really listen to the 
 others too much, although they do give a good varied flavor of the music in NYC. 
  
  I'm glad to say gone is the gym from San Andreas (thats why so many people think all you need is 
 dumbell curls and bench presses!) , but for some reason they've also taken away the great things 
 about that game like a good range of clothes and modding cars. The range of weapons is also poor 
 compared with its predecessor. The addition of the mobile phone and the internet is interesting 
 however, as well as the TV shows which can be funny. If only you could get through to the number 
 to claim your sword!
  
  Don't get me wrong, I did enjoy this game and would say it's a brilliant edition to the series, 
 but please make it a little more interesting and engrossing next time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wojcha
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 2:10 pm PT
Review:  If you liked San Andreas, and you were expecting something similar as it, this game is not for 
 you. Simply put, the thing that was the best in San Andreas was that it was very unreal, and (at 
 least for me) that rocked. In GTA IV, the dose of reality is just too big for it's own good. For 
 example: you jump out of your car, you die.
  
  
  Graphics nothing to say here - if u have a strong machine u will enjoy the beautiful world of GTA 
 IV. Graphics:10/10
  
  Gameplay is just too much realistic. Some people may like that, but personally i hated it. After 
 playing San Andreas, it's very hard to get used to the new gameplay. If u like reality then it's 
 10/10 for you but it's 3/10 for me.
  
  Story... Well all the GTAs have a similar cr*ppy story... You'll like or you'll hate it. 3/10
 
  
  Sounds as always are good, and the music is really good, although, sounds for some weapon effects 
 and explosions are awful. 7/10
  
  Overall: Simply too realistic for me, but if you like realistic, then this is a game for you! Overall: 
 6.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_pest
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2009 2:56 am PT
Review:  Lets set the record straight with this game! When it was first released it was terrible and was 
 clearly unfinished...
  
  However there is a very bright ending to the story which has arrived in the form of 3 patches which 
 transform the game into the masterpiece it should have been when first released.
  
  To play the game at a decent level you will need at least a quad core running at 2.5ghz or more 
 and at least a 4870 graphics card. 
  
  I wouldnt bother with a dual core as i have had one running this and it was terrible to say the 
 least.
  
  Just ignore the other reviews that are out there as im sure they were all made before the latest 
 and greatest patch came out which enables joystick support, better graphics etc....
  
  INSTALL ALL PATCHES, UPGRADE YOUR MACHINE TO THE ABOVE SPEC!
  
  BUY THIS GAME NOW AT ALL COSTS! 
 YOU HAVE MY PERSONAL GURANTEE IT IS GOOD NOW!
  
  Thanks for reading! ENJOY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlfg93
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 7:23 am PT
Review:  I've Played gta since the 3 rd release had gotten out. They are all amazing . But this its just 
 a master piece. 
  
  The animation and graphics are superb and i just cant believe the reaslistic effects this games 
 has. Its beautiful. 
  
  Until the installation i had some problems. I mean who blames me ... i manage to run all the games 
 including crysis but i couldnt run this ? well than i noticed that textures werent loading and 
 there it was the game needs to have ram lots and lots of ram. Once i installed 3 gig ram in my 
 pc vwala !.
  
  What about the characters?
  All Special. Especially Nico i mean hes rly got an atitude that you wont find. He not Crazy, Neither 
 to excited , Nor angry ... Its niko.
  Well than youll find other crazy characters that im sure you wont find in other games XP.
  
 
  
  GTA is surely one of the best games i have ever played and im sure youll enjoy playing it to. 
 
  
  Pls do correct me if im wrong =] .
  
  Thankyou 
::::::

::::::
UserName: recvx_freak
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 30, 2009 10:31 pm PT
Review:  I don't know where to begin cuz i have never criticized a gta game before because i enjoyed all 
 the previous titles that i played.
  I ended Vice city 6 times and San Andreas 8+ times
  
  I'm a "real gamer" so obviously I had problems with this game.
  unlike other reviewers I'm not 
 going to wine about all those glitches, cuz all games has those and they shouldn't stop you from 
 playing a game.
  
  What i didn't liked was the shallow story line.
  A guy coming to US to earn cash and bad stuff happens to him and his loved ones; this is the only 
 plot from start to finish.
  and who kills the main characters at the end of the game? in both endings a character die and then 
 you cant even meet the other one. I hated loosing the first girlfriend but murder of second one 
 was just mean.
  Its like piling up more reasons why should you delete this game right after ending it cuz after 
 ending; THE MOST fun thing you could do is explode a rocket launcher or a grenade under your feet.
 
  
  So lets write down the good and the bad stuff shall we?
  
  Good:
  1) Graphics (glitches and recourse inefficiency ignored)
  you car breaks down more accurately 
 then ever before but i hate the grey theme that city has adapted. Why is EVERYTHING grey (enen the 
 parks) ??? New York was presented in a much better way in Driver 1 and Driver Parallel Lines
  2) Improved AI
  3) Online play is awesome
  
  Bad:
  1) Flat storyline.... thus
  For this 
 reason missions were boring and for the first time in my life i actually had to force myself to 
 play the missions to get the game over with so i can delete this 16GB of disaster out of my PC.
 
  2) boring mission (cuz of the lame storyline)
  3) No check points in between long hard missions like in MAFIA
  4) Realistic driving (slow stopping 
 and acceleration times take away the fun from car chases; in all the missions you are constantly 
 looking at the map so you can calculate when to break cuz one wrong turn can end the mission and 
 force you to start all over.... I remember having a blast while driving cars in San andreas and 
 VC but this one was just a tense experience.
  5) removal of classic features of GTA series that define GTA like side missions (TAXI, Police etc)
 
  6) Harder Police - No Tanks (first of all police is way too tough, even if they gave you tanks 
 you would have never survived till the 6th star.
  7) Clothing: Are they kidding me 8-) i don't even have to explain myself here.
  8) where are 
 our heavily liked new features??? (GYM and barber shop to make out guy more presentable, MOD garages 
 to pimp our you sports cars and how dare they remove the Ammunition shop with the guy who sounded 
 like hot **** on that commercial!
  9) Not giving us planes feels like playing GTA 3 with different story and graphics besides driving 
 in between the island for missions was boring and tiresom; a faster way of transporting was needed.
 
  10) boring characters: i ended the game last month and I've already forgotten the names of almost 
 all the characters.
  11) They make you kill helpless guys like that old man that you bust out of prison and playboy 
 X's old partner ( how cruel do they think we are?)
  12) What's with all the resrtiction like having a live account for saving and not being able to 
 use any controller except miscosoft's X360 for windows (my fingers started to hurt each time i 
 played this game cuz of the award key positions)
  
  in conclusion
  This gameplay felt like i was playing Driver (Lack of features) and it was trying to impersonate 
 MAFIA (mob chasing and killing with a lot of talking) game play but failed miserably.
  In the race for better graphics the game has lost its edges. all the best features were removed 
 leaving Driver to actually stand a chance in beating GTA iv (i had more fun in playing parallel 
 lines then in GTA iv, seriously! cuz its story was much better!!!)
  
  So i recommend skipping this game even if you are bigger of a fan of this game then i am.
  
 
  I do wish that they ditch this new engine cuz last one was much more user friendly and insanely 
 fun.
  otherwise i dont see rockstars topping San Andreas even if they put in a superb story because the 
 features matters especially the 4th one.
  If i wanted realistic driving i buy Gran Turismo,
  we buy GTA for its hours and hours of non 
 stop fun and that seems impossible when driving a car is a pain in the A. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_luz_10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 12:57 am PT
Review:  (This is about the PC port)
  
  After beating GTA IV on my friends PS3 i gave the PC version a try.
  
  Graphics/Technical - 
 7/10
  
  GTA IV really got a good graphical facelift but the graphics and technical functioning of the game 
 still doesnt compare to the "elites" in this category. GTA IV's environments are really detailed 
 and so are cars and their damaging. But the character models are really lacking. Most of the citizens 
 and even some of the plot line characters are really ugly and terrible looking. Even the plot line 
 characters that arent as ugly are for some reason always shiny. Like you can meet them in a dark 
 alley way in a cutscene and be talking to them and they look like they've greased themselves up. 
 On the PC port the shadow effects and technical functions really do suck. Even the latest patch 
 (v1.3) still hasnt fixed the technical nightmare. I can max out every game, except Crysis, and 
 run absolutely smooth in the frames per second department. But the shadow effects on PC are so 
 ugly and constantly glitching all the time. Even the trees in GTA are constantly flickering and 
 not very detailed. Also when you get a 5 star wanted level and are being pursued by dozen of cop 
 cars, the frame rate will drop in and out (actually a problem on all consoles) . All in all the 
 graphics arent bad, the environments look great, but most of the characters look half-a**ed and 
 not as detailed as everything else. And the technical inconsistencies and frame drops during a 
 lot of activity will easily frustrate you.
  
  Story/Characters - 10+/10
  
  GTA has always had awesome plots and many awesome and memorable characters and cutscenes, as well 
 as the dialogue to complement it all. This games plot, characters, and dialogue are even better 
 than of those greats before. If you remember you had in GTA III a pretty solid get revenge, after 
 the deal of your life is double crossed by your partner, Vice City saw a Scarface parody, San Andreas 
 was a rise from the bottom of organized crime to the very top. In GTA IV the story is pretty hardcore. 
 To sum it up, you have been in the very bottom, and have been in the crappiest of all crappy situations 
 where your in debt, there are bounties on your head, and everyone just wants to exploit you for 
 their personal gain or you see get whacked. There is really an emphasis on survival. And you wont 
 rise to the very top, its pretty much taking the worst, crappiest situation and just trying to 
 make 'something' out of it. There are also some instances where you must decide to kill one person 
 or the other, or let someone live or not. This ***MIGHT SPOIL*** but there are two different possible 
 endings.
  
  Gameplay/Missions - 10/10
  
  The controls and gameplay were really elevated in the game. There is a new cover system which really 
 enhances the experience of the multitude of fire fights youll get into in the game. And the use 
 of an interactive cell phone interface, as well as mock internet website and email, really provide 
 an interactive and slightly innovative feel to the game. You'll get pictures of targets to assassinate 
 on your phone, or try to hook up with someone on an internet dating site just to get close enough 
 to kill or kid nap them. Speaking of missions theyll vary from a simple assassination, full on 
 shoot out, driver and get away from the cops, a bank job, a kidnapping, and a few other things. 
 There is some annoyances with the camera in close quarter situations aw well as the inability to 
 make quick agile movements.
  
  Those little things 10++++++++++/10
  
  The sheer amount of humor in the game is simply amazing. The radio stations, I thought were hilarious 
 in previous GTA games, are even more funny in GTA IV. Even some of the little things you notice 
 in pictures or peoples names. For example in a cutscene you visit a person in prison and the guards 
 names are "Seymour Fani", and "Richard Head", and those are just some of the many tiny doses of 
 humor spread throughout the game. Even the other activities have cutscenes for them that are pretty 
 funny. There are so many activities to do besides the games plotlines and missions. You can go 
 to a strip club, comedy club, many restaurants, a carnival, bowling, and a few other things. All 
 of those of course help you develop better friendships with your crime friends and help you try 
 and score with the girls too. Which of course you can hook up with many girls and meet them in 
 person, HOW? of course using an internet dating site on the computer. Also the ability to take 
 a taxi really speeds up traveling, so no where near as much time is wasted traveling from mission 
 to mission.
  
  Cons
  
  I really enjoyed all of the mini RPG like elements in San Andreas. For example the amount of customization 
 in character looks like tattoos, hair, body mass, etc. was awesome, as well as the gun, driving 
 experience and the ability to get better with guns. GTA IV doesnt have that. GTA IV's character 
 customization feels limited compared to the amount of customization available in San Andreas.
 
  
  Final Thoughts
  
  The sheer amount of humor, and little things, as well as the games awesome story, complemented 
 by the controls and graphics really make GTA IV a must play if you are in to open world sand box 
 games. Although the game is still a techncal disaster in need of patching (especially the PC) , 
 something like that can be fixed in due time (they've had 3 patches so far) and that wont hamper 
 the experience. If you are eager to try it out on a powerful PC i'd wait a little while just for 
 the game to get patched up. Other than that GTA IV is a game loaded with awesome content that will 
 take easily more than 25+ hours to go through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wait321
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 30, 2009 11:14 am PT
Review:  When I first played a gta game, Vice City, I was really impressed. Although this game this game 
 has changes, it hasn't moved very far from the Vice City. 
  
  There are some helpful improvements on the mechanics. The ability to shoot anywhere from a car 
 has made car chases easier. I remember when I had to hunt down bikes so that I could shoot my victims. 
 The ability to take cover saves me the trouble of moving around a lot during shootouts. 
  
  There are still some minor bad stuff. Having to run a circle to go in the opposite direction is 
 annoying. The lock view to target (caps lock) is useless. The pigeons and car collecting are just 
 pointless chores for people with too much time on their hands. There's still poorly designed mini-games, 
 but they aren't required (unlike in San Andreas) so it's not a big deal.
  
  The main problem is that they made elements more realistic and less fun. People and cars are much 
 harder to kill. I remember when I would go on a rampage blowing up cars and stuff for fun. Now, 
 cars will take tons of bullets before exploding. They also took away the tank. Instead of doing 
 that, they should have added in the ability to create a monster car that's the scourge of the city.
 
  
  Until the designers make a huge change to the game, gta entertains players in the same way that 
 a novel does: through its story. The realistic city based on New York, the multiplayer, etc, are 
 all cool, but they get old fast. The story in this game just sucks. The ending isn't fulfilling 
 and doesn't give you a sense of accomplishment.
  
  Overall, the game is good, but you probably won't keep playing after you finish the campaign. There's 
 just no new content (like user mods for oblivion, which I'm still playing) or strategy values (like 
 taking over a randomly generated city) . 
  
  It's a shame that the designers are still rehashing the same formula. I was hoping that this game 
 would add in more strategy elements. As you move up the ladder, you would do less jobs and hire 
 others. Eventually, you'd set up your own shops and become the don of a family, ordering your minions 
 to do jobs, until you take over the city.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuuuli
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 29, 2009 8:13 pm PT
Review:  BORING. 
  good storyline however.. but BORING gameplay.
  The missions difficulty levels are just right.. but again..
  there is this DEEP sense of BORING 
 throughout the game.
  The sign up process takes hours and you need to open
  more than one account. And you need to be signed in
  to two acouunts just to play a .... game. 
 
  New York.... is very impressively modeled... and
  its a good way to view New York virtually, but its much
  better just to go to New York and drive 
 a real car
  and take a real subway. Is this a virtual recreation
  (better if its free and online) or.... a game?
  Music: okay, the Ranetki girls are shining. The 
 radio
  stations are excellent. They did
  a very very good job with the music, it reminds me
  of the good good FUN Gta 3.
  The cab rides 
 are an excellent addition and a great
  way to view the city and take a break.
  My computer was able to run the game ... you know...
  just good enough. Remember playing gta 3 
 on your
  old puter? sigh,,... same thing. You need to use
  2012 computers to run this thing. But again... this
  was not a big problem for me. (dual 2.0, 512 
 nvidia and 2 gig ram)
  It seems that they perfected the state of this type of game..
  but forgot to make it FUN and maybe they forgot that
  its just a game.
  Youve already proved 
 .... youre.. legit.... I hope that
  this is your dark peak and now.. back to games.
  Im looking forward to Chinatown wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amirpes
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2009 1:01 am PT
Review:  just Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust 
 Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodjust Very Goodj 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 8:00 pm PT
Review:  The Grand Theft Auto franchise makes another winner. It is trully amazing what Rockstar games are 
 doing. It is simply impossible to make a whole city and not succeed. As a gamer, I am grateful 
 to the developers for their work and for publishing the game for PC as well eventually. The feeling 
 while playing the game (apart from enjoyment) was strangely a bit of sadness. I say sadness because 
 I know that a lot of work must have gone into the game and I wish I could play it for at least 
 two weeks but I knew the end was going to be in 4 or 5 days. Replaying the game is really not my 
 thing. The only game I replayed was Fallout 3 because of so many differing aspects and layers of 
 it.
  
  To start off, I did not like the character, Niko (I come from the area where he is from) because 
 of the weird accent, weak looks and the strangest pronunciation of the foreign language. But as 
 the game went on I changed his clothes, his style changed from an immigrant to a 'can do' 'no bull' 
 independent contractor. 
  
  Where GTA IV excells compared to its predecessors is the storyline and many details that were worked 
 on, such as more radio staions, tv, mobile phone, ability to seek cover, to name just a few. 
 
  
  The only thing I feel it is missing is distractions. What I mean by that is when the storyline 
 ended, the game ended, that was the end of the line for Niko on my pc. Rather than ending it there, 
 the developers should have added an option to take over the city (which obviously does not need 
 to be at the end but could be during the game as well, but would be interesting if this option 
 was left at the end of the game) . So, similar to previous version gang wars could be started but 
 this could be expanded to include a week of extra play. You could have an option to start your 
 own mob, then you hire gang members, you get them trained, they have abilities that are attributed 
 to them and more the more wars they survive, the better their stats and fighting. You would start 
 from a small group of for example Niko, Roman, Jacob, Brucie and perhaos Dwayne. You find a neighbourhood 
 where you could establish a racket. You earn some cash, you do a few small drug deals that don't 
 pay that much Then you expand to several neiboughoods and get more cash. Then you kill an important 
 player and get access to cheaper drugs, you buy a helicopter, a boat, an aerplane or even a submarine 
 and you bribe the coastguard and you get your own drug mules so you skip the middle mEn and you 
 make a lot more money. This would make you a potentially more vulnerable target so you could hire 
 protection for yourself. You buy your own front. You buy your own safehouses, clubs, bar and what 
 else which are front but also bring in genuine business. You then build up an army and buy them 
 'office' around the city so they can quickly respond to an attack on a front, turf or a cocaine 
 stealing attempt. Those 'offices' would basically be barracks for your soliders. You could get 
 them straight off the boats, your immigrants looking for work an a place to sleep. Then you could 
 upgrade the barracks so they have better protection if attacked themselves. You could pimp up your 
 safehouses. Working out was an interesting option as well. 
  
  Obviously it would take a lot of time and it would be difficult to succeed because each success 
 would bring a bigger attack from the rivals trying to take your down. That's where the real first 
 person shooter effect could come in. This would not be too hard to do in my view but would really 
 make the game amazing and give real value to it. 50 dollars for a game that you finish in 40 hours 
 is not in my view good value for money although the quality GTA IV offers most definitely compensates 
 for the lack of play hours.
  
  All in all, as any GTA game this is a must play so I do recommend it. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  Anyways, to the marking system now.
  
  
  
  Graphics: 10/10 - very very good graphics
  
  Controls: 9/10 - some difficulties but not much
 
  
  Immersiveness: 8/10 - After a while you do feel as if you really are in the game yourself but something 
 stops you from completely associating yourself with the character.
  
  
  Bugs: 9.5/10 - strange shadow effects were overcome by installing a patch and updating graphics 
 drivers. Installation problems existed but I figured it all out eventually. I did not encounter 
 any bugs as such, only loading times that were sometimes really really long.
  
  Voices: 9.5/10 - very good and very well done
  
  Sounds: 9.5/10 - impressive variety of environmental 
 sounds
  
  Storyline: 9/10 - pretty good, I personally liked it.
  
  Length: 8/10 - it is simply a shame to build a city but not have more play time. Seirous player 
 play again or use mods and what not which is interesting but in my view only wastes time as it 
 does not add to the story. 
  
  Music: 10/10 - brilliant
  
  Difficulty: 8/10 - not too difficult but driving can be a pain and replayng missions which are 
 not difficult but simply awkward is also a pain. I very much dislike how easily you fall off a 
 bike, the effect of a handbrake and that you do not seem to be better at driving a motorbike even 
 after days spent on it. Side missions could be introduced to enhance driving abilities. I love 
 motorbikes in the game and should be able to go anywhere with them. Also rolling out of a car takes 
 too long and takes too much energy, it takes out the fun out of jumping out of a car on fire and 
 grabbing another one.
  
  Gameplay: the gameplay overall which combines all these aspects means that the game deserves 9/10 
 meaning it is a musy play but will not be legendary because of the few above mentioned shortcomings. 
 
  
  
  
  Overall: 9 / 10
  
  
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing 
 if you have nothing else good to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely 
 anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
  
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 since if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10)
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life. This applies unless I really am impressed 
 with a game and this game is fairly impressive.
  
  
  
  I do apologise for the grammar and spelling mistakes, I really cannot be bothered to go through 
 it all correcting it. If I got paid I'd be a perfectionist but I don't get paid for this stuff. 
 I basically do it for myself so I can remember what good games I have played. Thank you to gamespot 
 for enabling such a function. We should also be able to download our and others' reviews onto the 
 dektop (just an idea) . 
  
  
  Best Wishes to everyone
  
  Zak 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinfatus
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2009 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Maybe you want to understand why so many people give it 10.0 or 9.0 and other people give it 1.0, 
 right?
  
  This is probably cause people that give 10 had no problems on running the game, like shadows or 
 texture bugs, maybe little slow but thats normal even on high machines (about 22 fps) . And of course 
 people that gives it 1 had terrible graphics bugs. Why that happen?? Could be many things or all 
 things: game version, windows version, drivers version, other softwares installed, ... As I remember 
 the Steam version comes with terrible problems so they canceled it, other versions I have no idea, 
 my works fine.
  
  About the pc to run it, dont get too worried, if you have a C2D 2 Ghz or above and a 8800 you should 
 be able to run the game in a medium quality and that is pretty good, I had C2D 2.2 with a GTX260 
 and this allow me to play at high sttings. I also saw my friend play it on a P4 3Ghz with a 8800 
 on low graphs.
  
  So dont spend money on a new rigs just to play this game, it will probably run just a little better 
 cause it was bad adapted for PC. Basicaly XBOX and PS3 had good processor and bad graphcs units, 
 PC has bad processors and good graphcs units so they dont made the conversion so the game could 
 use the GPU instead the CPU, Good Job Rockstar!
  
  Now about the game:
  
  On the begning you will felt a little distant from the game cause the first missions arent so interesting 
 but with time you get used to it and start to like the story.
  
  The city looks like a real one, full of life, and its big very big. Full of funny and crazzy characters 
 that now you have to interact with and keep a friendship, getting out to drink or eat with then.
 
  
  The voice acting and animations make it looks like a movie, also the reaction of your character 
 for the situations of the world arround him are amazing.
  
  Crashing cars now is more realistic and funny, depending of the way you crash your car can be wrecked 
 on the first hit and if you crash so many time the engine wont start again, or you couls fly through 
 the wind shield on a fast hit. Bike on other way are terrible, is basicaly one hit and youre dead.
 
  
  Is a game that keep you playing for a long time. Unfortunately the multiplayer for the PC version 
 apears to dont work cause the problems with Games for Windows Live, other Microsoft disaster.
 
  
  Now the Good and Bad list of GTA4:
  
  Good
  1- City full of life, looks real.
  2- Cars are cool and fun to crash and drive.
  3- Funny characters, and good story.
  4- Nice 
 voice acting.
  5- You can add your mp3 files.
  6- Tired to drive take a taxi.
  8- Cellphone gives a different way to control the game progress.
  9- Auto-save works great.
 
  10- Good auto route on map.
  
  Bad
  1- Too easy, if you dont get arrested you dont loose your weapons.
  2- Radios have more comercials 
 than musics.
  3- Bad performace for not so fantastic graphics.
  4- Cops are very easy to get away.
  5- Graphics changes dont affect the visual or the performace 
 too much.
  6- No antialiasing filter.
  
  I belive thats all for now, if you still on doubt to buy GTA4 or not I hope this review help you 
 take a decision.
  
  My rigs: C2D 2.2 Ghz E4500 - 2 Gb DDR2 667 Mhz - Asus P5N SLI - MSI GTX260 OC 192SP - Sound Blaster 
 Audgy - HD 160 Gb - Xbox 360 Controller
  
  Version: Windows XP 32bits SP3 - Dx 9.0c - Nvidia Forceware 181.22 - Game version standard (no 
 patch)
  
  Game Spec: res 1280x1024 60htz - quality High - render Highest - view distance 1 - details distance 
 1 - vehicle density 100 - shadows density 0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vno
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 18, 2009 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Firstly, an extremely bad bad port to the PC, 2ndly having stupid goals like find all 300 pidgeons 
 just shows how retarded rockstar is. They just wanna add something random and useless to "increase 
 game play time"
  
  I dont get why the hype of people rating this a 9.0
  
  I am not saying this is a bad game. I rate this a 7.
  
  It is JUST a good game. NOT GREAT AT 
 ALL!.
  Just cause they got a good concept of having a big free world. doesnt make the developers a genius. 
 the game has lots of room for improvement so much so that i cant remember any of them to list here.
 
  
  just like CnC red alert 3, it is just an okay, good game, it dont deserve a **** 9!
  in fact, no rockstar games deserve a 9. there are many more well done "free-world" games.
  
 
  On the positive side, Niko Bellic is a fun character to play through.
  Interactions with AI, cinematics is nice to watch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wilson_k
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2009 11:12 pm PT
Review:  This is the 5 game 4 Grand Theft Auto n it is still one of the best games out there. The freelance, 
 non-liner, sandbox game has one of the biggest map there is 4 game. The game shows great monuments 
 of the US such as the statue of liberty. 
  
  There are many important updates in this new installation to be noted by GTA fans. One of the most 
 notable is you will get to use hand phone in game to call your in-game friends n get mission briefings 
 through the phone. u can now make friends, built-up respect n likeness n receive benefits from 
 them. u can call your girlfriend n friends out 4 food, shows, bars or strip bars. There is also 
 a in-game net. It allows you to email, n meet new girlfriends through the on-line friend finder. 
 The car verity is more then the previous game. The sad thing is that we are unable to fly a plane. 
 Anyway there is only one airport so there is no other place to fly to. There is also only one type 
 of helicopter.
  
  The game plot is also quite okay. There is quite a few twist n turn in the story. Overall it is 
 a good game 4 all. recommended 4 sandbox lovers, Assassin Creed fans, Far Cry lovers n of course 
 GTA addicts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akshaymohan24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 2:07 pm PT
Review:  This has been my favourite game since I got this, I don't know why users gave it a bad rating. 
 Users with quite bad PC is not likely to like the stucking game. It has been given a high recommendation, 
 since it's graphics is so high. The game is very addictive, since it's fun in playing. The gameplay 
 is the best, the phoning capacity with us is incredible!! I do give it 9.5, since according to 
 me, it is quite perfect. The game is very hard, it is sometimes hard or sometimes very easy, so 
 it is wise to just right!! The game is very nice. It's graphics is very nice. Roaming around the 
 city is quite fun in it. The doors, the interiors are also very nice. Those who get this game will 
 die for this for sure. I don't know whether the game will correctly work on low PC, since it needs 
 a graphics card of 512 mb and 2 gb ram atleast. Dual Core 2 or Quad core will be the best for this 
 gaming stuff of GTA 4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamrob7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Well it is a GTA game, it looks good, plays pretty well, good voice acting and presentation. Everything 
 you would expect from a GTA game.
  
  I just can't shake the feeling that there is something missing. It uses a lot of cliches and quite 
 well I suppose with its presentation, but perhaps it might be more interesting if it wasn't quite 
 such a cliche ridden textbook gansta blah blah thing. More realistic in terms of persons etc. I'm 
 not sure though this might just be me nitpicking.
  
  There just seems to be something not that great about it, although if you check all 5 of your senses 
 you will definately have to label it as being a great game.
  
  So it gets a tenous 8.5. I pondered a 9 or 9.5 because in a way I think it deserves it. I just 
 can't quite put my finger on why it doesn't. Perhaps it is because the game hasn't really evolved.
 
  
  Perhaps it is because after a while I just skip through the well presented cuts scenes because 
 they are boring and I really don't care about seeing another stereotype portayed doing something 
 completely predictable.
  
  The radio stations, tv stations are all there and reasonably amusing as always. It has some good 
 tunes as always although perhaps a little less thick with actual classics than the previous had 
 been.
  
  So I don't have much to say about it, it is a good GTA game, nothing really new, nothing really 
 flawed, some gimicks that kind of work. Some things that are a bit off.
  
  One thing I would have liked is a greater variety of location like we had in San Andreas. I think 
 it was a mistake limiting it in such a way.
  
  One thing I think is actually a big step forward is the police chasing you situations with the 
 zone etc. Much better than the previous set up.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: d0zin0X
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2009 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV was a perfect console game, and if you ask me, this is also a perfect PC game. 
 For all of you with a bad PC: You cannot say it is a bad game because you are experiencing technical 
 issues or laggy performance. This is a game that is highly addictive. It never gets boring at all, 
 thanks to the physics engine Euphoria. Liberty City is a fantastic version of New York, but it 
 has some tweaks that makes it unique. It is not short and you will spend a lot of hours to complete 
 the game. If you have a good PC you will enjoy this game very much. Driving a vehicle in GTA IV 
 is satisfying, and crashing it is more than satisfying, it will kick out some words like; Oh my 
 god, look how realistic that looks.
  
  I will with honor recommend this game 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 9, 2009 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Review deck
  
  Vista 64 bit Ultimate
  4GB DDR2 Ram
  Geforce 8800 GTS
  Intel E8400 1333 FSB
  Realtek 5.1 Surround Sound
  
  Patch v.2
  
  
  I was never a fan 
 of the previous GTA's but I got this on the recommendation of friends. This is clearly the best 
 GTA to date but it gets old pretty fast.
  
  The game revolves around Niko Bellic a Russian immigrant and ex-soldier who arrives in America 
 to find a new life with his cousin. He quickly falls into the wrong crowd and the game is based 
 around missions doing criminal tasks for various gangsters. The story is padded out with cutscenes 
 which are well put together with good voice acting.
  
  
  Graphics are the best seen to date in GTA game
  
  Sound - Usual GTA radio stations playing 
 lots of catchy tracks
  
  Gameplay - on the PC they have done a superb job. What I hated most about previous GTAs was the 
 way characters moved, being console ports, but iv plays fine with a mouse and keyboad. Checkpoints 
 are more closely interspersed than previous versions so your never far from a save.
  
  
  Initially I found the game great fun to play and liked how the story developed, however it becomes 
 very repetitve and quickly becomes quite boring. The missions are generally involve stealing a 
 car, go beat someone up, steal a car go kill someone, steal a car go talk to someone, steal a car 
 and follow someone, steal a car take a girl on a date. Occaisionally for a bit of variation you 
 get to hail a cab instead. By the time you've stolen your hundreth car in 10 hours of game play 
 you find that the game has become a yawn fest and I found myself logging in less and less.
  
  Lots of people have had problems with stability on the PC but I've had no such issues, everything 
 runs smoothly with good frame rates.
  
  This could be a great game but generally the content sucks.
  
  
  Graphics 9
  Sound 9
 
  Stability 9
  Gameplay 5
  
  Overall 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackfnBurton
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 19, 2009 1:03 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV is as much fun to play as its predecessors (with the exception of the loathsome San Andreas, 
 but that's an opinion for another time) , and looks great on PC as long as you have a top of the 
 line video card. 
  
  But various technical issues leave the game buggy and somewhat crash prone, making it as frustrating 
 as it is exciting. 
  
  The mission objectives tend to feel repetitive at times, but there are enough genuinely imaginative 
 ones mixed in to keep the experience from becoming utterly mundane. Plus, the game's 'sandbox' 
 layout means that in most cases you can be as ingeniously inventive as you want so that playing 
 the same mission over can in fact feel like a different experience. 
  
  The attention to detail is remarkable - Liberty City and its inhabitants feel like an organic entity, 
 living and breathing, responding to your actions in often unexpected ways. 
  
  However, despite the availability of a number of tweaks, you never can quite be sure the game isn't 
 going to crap out on you at an inopportune time. 
  
  And did i forget to mention the complete and utter lack of AA and AF in this game? For high end 
 video configuration options like that to be missing on ANY PC game, let alone such a high profile 
 one is simply criminal. The overall graphics on the PC version of this game may be comparable to 
 the console but they SHOULD be far superior. It doesn't make the game unplayable but I have to 
 say, if I'd known beforehand I probably would have avoided this title.
  Were it not for these things - and the fact that to get the most out of it as it is you'll STILL 
 want to drop a mint on a high end video card - I'd give it a nine. 
  
  As it is, Se7en is all it gets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gooeykat
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 5, 2009 5:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is broken, the performance is horrible and is probably worst game in terms of performance 
 that I've purchased in the last two years. It feels rushed, like the dev was trying to shove it 
 out the door as fast as possible. This is a shame because the seems to be a good game underneath 
 all the performance issues. My computer is pretty good: C2D OC'd to 3.1 Ghz, 9800GX2 and 4 GB of 
 ram and this thing runs horribly. The recent patches help but for the most part, performance makes 
 this game far from enjoyable. The game doesn't support in-game AA and there is now way to force 
 it, it looks awful! It also has poorly implemented depth of field effect that could correct the 
 lack of AA but it's not done correctly. Overall, the game is killed by a lack of good performance, 
 really low frames per second which makes playing the game a really painful experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rammsteingamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 7:23 am PT
Review:  I have to be honest about Grand Theft Auto 4 on the pc....
  And i have to ask : Rockstar what were you thinking ? I dunno if rockstar is aware of the current 
 economy problems but they made a game that even on the best computers has its problems running...
 
  Its incomprehensible, maybe they did it like this so that people woundnt pirate it , because 
 people who have the money to have those ultra high tec computers have the money to buy it, otherwise 
 its just a bad conversion, and i personally think its the last one ...
  But hey , the game is wonderful , a real step up in the series in terms of gameplay, graphics and 
 content ( although it would have been nice that some things that existed in Grand Theft Auto San 
 Andreas wouldnt have been left out... But this way Rockstar have a lot of things to include in 
 the next title of the series...
  Lets start with the gameplay, it is very solid, although sometimes a little slow to respond. New 
 additions such as being able to shoot anywhere while inside the vehicle are great, but for example, 
 the "Gears of War like" covering system is too unrealistic... You can make accurate shots, with 
 true precision even if you dont look where youre shooting... just using your hand "supposely" 
 blind firing , this sometimes makes the game too easy to beat... The same happens with the new 
 wanted sistem, if you get 1 star, the police will only search for you in a small "search" radios, 
 which is represented by a small circle in your radar, the more stars you get, the bigger the circle 
 gets. This is a great addition but sometimes makes the work really simple, just get out of the 
 circle wait a few seconds and there you go, or enter a pay and spray shop while the police isnt 
 looking ( this old way is now much improved, because if the police sees you entering the shop, 
 you wont be able to respray the vehicle ! ) .
  Moving on to the sound... The sound in liberty city is one of the best aspects of Grand Theft Auto 
 4, no surprise really, because Rockstar always pick the right music and right voice actores to 
 do the job so... Thumbs Up :)
  If you got a 5.1 or 7.1 surround sound you will be delighted by the way the sound is treated in 
 this game ( if you dont.... well..... Its great anyways ) , by the way, i dont have 5.1 nor 7.1 
 though ive heard the game those ways...
  The Graphics are the worst part for most users, of course they look better than all the other GTAs, 
 but if you want to play with the maximum settings, well you can...... FORGET IT ... Yup thats it.... 
 Just let it go...
  As i have already said, even the best computers run with constant slowdowns if everything is pushed 
 to the max ( or not ) ... Well, you could always say :I dont need to play in the max, medium 
 will do just fine for me, or even low..." But theres the big issue. The recommended Graphics card 
 is a Nvidia 8600... As you all know that graphics card isnt that great... Its good but from experience, 
 i can tell that i ran the game in low, medium and high ( not the textures because its blocked in 
 medium for my rig ) and the games runs almost the same in the 3 settings... Its the processor, 
 the recommended Processor is a Quad-Core, not everybody has one ! I have a Dual Core and a Nvidia 
 9600 GT and 2 gigabytes of ram ( and ive played it with 3 gigabytes too ) , and the game doesnt 
 run smoothly... Everyone knows those breaks that occur due to the Processor, and they happen way 
 to many times in this game, ok my pc isnt great but it is quite good in my opinion :) ...
  Well thats about it in GTA 4 for the PC, im just sorry Rockstar didnt optimise it better before 
 releasing it... I just hope the next PC installment wont be as weak as this one is , in terms 
 of conversion from the consoles... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shifty02
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 4, 2009 9:28 pm PT
Review:  I love GTA games, I've played every one of them since they started back in the days when GTA 1 
 & 2 was still top view 2D. It is a great concept which makes great games, that is if it is implemented 
 properly. That is where the problem comes. GTA 4 on the pc is like a great car but the wheels fall 
 of every 4 blocks. So if you are not prepared to stop every 4 blocks and fix your wheels, you'll 
 be disappointed. I know game experiences may vary from user to user. I've had problems from the 
 beginning but it was just tolerable. Recently however it became unplayable even with the latest 
 patch installed. I replayed 1 mission because the previous time it bombed out with a RESC10 error, 
 after which it bombed out again. So I restarted the game, turn down my graphic settings even more 
 and tried again. This time I didn't even get to finish 1 mission, the game just froze after 3 minutes 
 so I gave up. So please don't waste your money or time with this "great console" game that has 
 been rendered unplayable by porting (trying to port) it to pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russian_takeout
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 5:39 pm PT
Review:  to be honest with you, i dont understand what is wrong with so many reviews about this game. after 
 reading all the negative reviews, when i installed it, i was expecting unplayable game. after all, 
 i dont have a powerful PC, bellow average to be exact. P4 3.4... 2GB of ram.... Nvidia GF 9400GT.
 
  
  maybe i cant use the full dept of field option. cant set up extra high resolution. but who cares... 
 this game is great with out max graphics. on medium-high, the game runs with out any lag. you start 
 noticing slow downs only when you reach maximum police wanted level, and world war 3 starts. i 
 guess because of too many explosions, the game staters a bit. but it still playable, and something 
 i could live with.
  my point is that GTA4 never been about the graphics in the first place.
  
  we have 2 many guys 
 who rate games strictly on graphics, and forget about the game play itself. i myself, love the 
 good looking games, but after a few hours of play, when you see all the cool stuff, you stop paying 
 attention on graphics.
  
  this game has one of the best replay values. easily, average player, can spend 30-40 hours on GTA4, 
 with out noticing. it has lots of cool missions, lots of new options, great game ideas.
  
  i recommend getitng the game for anybody, specially, when you can get it for under 20 bucks, like 
 i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ellifort
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 5:45 pm PT
Review:  It's a shame to see so many performance issues in this PC version of a game that is the very best 
 ever in the Grand Theft Auto universe. Every good thing that is present on the PS3 and XBOX 360 
 versions is here for PC, but unfortunately you can't enjoy the same way if you have a mid-rated 
 system computer. 
  
  The multiplayer is nice, maybe even better for PC by the agility that using a mouse gives to the 
 player for shooting, but maybe there's some disadvantage for players that can't afford a high-rated 
 system, as the server disconnects players that are running the game too slow. Having LIVE on a 
 GTA is absolutely more fun for players, as the achievements give some other objectives for you.
 
  
  At all, if you have a good PC, you will have hours and hours of fun, even more if you have a XBOX 
 360 controller for the pc for playing the single-player mode, and you MUST buy this game. But there's 
 one thing I can say: if you have a PS3 or a XBOX 360, buy your console version of GTA IV, as you 
 will surely have an outstanding experience compared to the one you have with PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaPhIrX_lOl
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 3:12 pm PT
Review:  You start as a character named Nico Bellic a normal Russian person, but when he takes the boat 
 from Europe he start a life whit guns and drugs and lots of money. Nico sees how his cousin Roman 
 Bellic getting pushed by people by then Nico takes care of it by himself but to survive he must 
 go for the top and that is what he is going to do. Gta 4/IV is one of the best games i have ever 
 played it has alot to offer from internet cafes to stealing a police car and check its register 
 and offers over 100 hours of gaming time if you reach for everything this game has to give and 
 if you just want to play around in Liberty city do so and you will enjoy every single foot step 
 you take. I recommend the Xbox360 version or the ps3 version, the pc version is worse but you can 
 download mods whit it.
  ***Welcome to Liberty City***
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Babarian225
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 28, 2009 8:59 am PT
Review:  I will start off by trying to refresh peoples memories about the GTA Franchise, which most of us 
 ALL fell in Luv with and began to anticipate the release of Future release of GTA IV. 
  
  However GTA IV is a "Door stop" for the progress of the GTA Franchise. 
  
  Game Spot were Certainly 
 offered Favours to give this Game such a High Rating!
  
  
  GTA IV is By Far the Worst GTA ever Made! and this is due to One very simple reason, which is GTA 
 IV is the Worst port I have ever come across in my entire life.
  
  Endless Bugs! Crashes, Glitches, Slowdowns, Erratic, Incompatibilities, errors , errors and errors, 
 performance issues, Crashes, memory leaks, stutters, I think you get the idea.
  
  
  GTA IV is a game that is simply spoiled by performance issues.
  
  If you have an Intel Quad 
 Core @ 3Ghz and 280 Gtx then you will enjoy the game
  
  Else
  
  Save your Pocket Money and Skip this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g_powerd1986
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 3:49 pm PT
Review:  ... i shouldn't need to buy newest hardware to play a game, right? so it gets a huge cut off from 
 it's score (no mercy :D) ... i know my computer might not be a great quad core one but it sure as 
 hell can play a lot of games pretty well... such as Crysis, Assassin's Creed, Grid etc. in highest 
 quality @ 1280x1024 (in fact anything except GTA 4.)
  but if you make (port) a game for pc's. you should optimize it...
  i'm pretty sure it would run 
 on a more modest computer if it was optimized better.
  You know, i see the new intel ad. on the right. Previous CPUs and Core i7... like they are not the 
 ones who made those CPUs and demonstrated how great they are... and they are still great. But since 
 they want to keep the cash rolling... they treat the prev. CPUs like sh*t :D 
  a 6 months or a year later we'll see those quad cores and as a little goblin on the left probably...
 
  anyways i'm bored... i'll give this one "6.5" for being this ungrateful for the CPU, GPU power 
 & memory it is given...
  
  in case of a miracle patch that would come and make the game use all that processing power more 
 wisely it would get a 9... because all the stuff except optimization is very good.
  
  yo, yo, yo... pumping it man! that's how we roll baby! whoow!!!! bull shark testosterone!!
  
 
  ps. excuse me if i made any mistakes. because english is not my native language ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam3231
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 25, 2009 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Optimizing GTA4 for the PC was obviously not Rockstar's prime focus upon its release. It's really 
 a shame, because for most of my life I've enjoyed PC releases far more than the console counterparts 
 or "ports" seems to be the term people like to use now in days. But before I enter the review, 
 let's recap what the average xbox360/ps3 owner does to play gta4...
  
  Step 1: Open packaging
  
  Step 2: Insert game in console
  
  Step 3: Play Game
  
  If 
 only it were that easy for PC gamers. PC gamers have grown to accept patching and installing as 
 extra steps. But the amount of extra steps to get gta4 working properly is the equivalent of a 
 twenty story spiral staircase. It's like that staircase you run up in Mario 64 to face bowser but 
 never ends since you don't have enough stars. Basically  it's going to take a lot of time and 
 work to get this fully playable, which I couldn't even manage to accomplish. (So if you did, congrats)
 
  
  The initial install actually goes quite smoothly, despite taking up a whopping 15 gb on your hard 
 drive. Of course with security broadening on today's PC games, the user must then proceed to make 
 a Windows Live account. If you haven't already encountered this, it's basically an additional security 
 measure by Microsoft which requires your games CD key and mimics an Xbox live interface. Then after 
 that, it is required for you to register with "Rockstar Games Social Club". It seemed a bit excessive 
 at the time, I mean registering with two sites to play this one pc game but right now it wasn't 
 to the point where I was bothered. 
  
  Upon launch and starting a new game, you're greeted with a relatively short loading screen and 
 some catchy music played in the background whilst it loads. The system I used isn't prime for this 
 day and age, but I manage to fall in between minimum/recommended with 4 gb ram, nvidia 8600 256 
 mb and 2.2 ghz dual core. 
  
  I knew the graphics wouldn't be all that hot judging from the relatively low settings the game 
 auto assigned, but this is just disgraceful. It's so ugly and unappealing - the graphics are like 
 mixing dog turds with ice cream. It's nicely detailed yet missing textures, there's high quality 
 lighting but some strange artifacts - especially on buildings. Overall it's just disgusting; there 
 are tons of way better looking games I can run then this pile of garbage. The sickening frame rate 
 complements the dreadful graphics as well, which is much like a very unstable slideshow. (To give 
 you an idea, I have better frame rate running Bioshock on high with 1280 x 800 then I do with this 
 game all settings minimum 800 x 600) To top it all off, I've had an audio problem in which I can't 
 hear sounds coming from pedestrians or the radio. 
  
  *Many Hours Later*
  
  After I spent more of my time trying to get this game to work, I managed to get the recent patch 
 which helped the frame rate slightly but still nothing but a merely average of about 20-25 on minimum 
 settings. (All low/off 800 x 600 etc) Graphics are still... sh*t. (Excuse the language, but such 
 a terrible port would bring even the pope himself to a raging fury) It wouldn't bother me so much 
 if it was just a standard "low" setting but this looks like a mixture of n64 with ps3  strangely 
 detailed mixed with the shamefully hideous.
  
  As for the sound, I've tried multiple tweaks, fixes, reinstalls, various audio drivers, f*cking 
 everything - and still I must put up with a bunch of citizens on gag order, it's like Jerry Jones 
 and the Dallas Cowboys GTA style. So what are we left up with? Barely playable frame rate, ugly 
 inconsistent graphics, and broken sound. 
  
  Well I'm done reporting on this pile of garbage. Notice I didn't mention the game's story, gameplay 
 mechanics, or other aspects. Why? Because this game should be avoided on the PC, please if you 
 are considering getting a high end PC just to play this game I would strongly recommend just picking 
 up an console, since the console versions are flawless. If you can overlook many technical problems 
 that can arise, this might be worth it if you have a high end computer and you're not willing to 
 buy a 360 or ps3.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MatthewSmmns
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 25, 2009 4:08 pm PT
Review:  PC GTA 4 played on:
  AMD athlon windsor 6400+ 3.2 Dualcore
  4 Gigs of RAM
  Nvidia Ge-Force 8800 GTX
  Sound Blaster sound card
  ASUS Crosshair I motherboard
  
  
 
  Hello my name is Matthew and this is the review i have for GTA 4. The price is high but hey its 
 the GTA series.... that is to be expected. On installation it was alot to go through. In my opinion 
 took to much time... You feel like you are selling your soul with everything you have to go through 
 just to play the game! I understand that it is to keep piracy down but come on....! Well anyways, 
 the game is sluggish on some points of the game even when my PC passed the requirment by a mile... 
 Well if that wasnt enough... the game would play for maybe an hour and then start slowing down 
 real bad or even lock up! It also Locked up in cut scenes. I contacted Technical support about 
 it and they were of no help! Their "solutions" didnt even fix some of the things that were happening 
 with the game. Needless to say this game has ALOT of technical issues with it still for PC and 
 until they get it resolved, its going to keep this game from getting a perfect review! Before buying 
 make sure your PC can even run it... if not its just a waste of money and I would just stick with 
 it on the consoles. That was my review on it and thanks for taking your time reading it.. I hope 
 it helps anyone with questions about the games performance on PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edd080
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2009 9:07 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4 is one of the best series in the GTA line up so far, sadly though; for those 
 PC users (like me) it seems that there are very annoying issues such as the game randomly crashing, 
 some objects seem to also have gone missing after applying the recent update as stated in other 
 forums.
  
  The game is imo addictive I haven't looked at any other recent games except GTA 4, I am always 
 eager to complete mission after mission, explore Liberty City, playing side missions such as Police 
 Car missions and so on.
  
  Graphic wise I have nothing to complain about although a few details could have been improved such 
 as maybe the reflections of the cars which did not seem to be optimised.
  
  If this game can be fixed from those annoying random crashes with a major update from Rockstar; 
 I am sure many of us who own the PC game & are experiencing these issues will otherwise be very 
 happy with the game overall..
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: just_for_kicks
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 24, 2009 4:45 am PT
Review:  GTA IV, promising to be one of the best games of this generation has fallen short of the benchmarks 
 set by its previous counterparts, Vice City and San Andreas. By no means is this a terrible game 
 but its lost so much character that it once had.
  
  The game starts with protagonist Niko Bellic arriving at a dock in Liberty City on a freight boat 
 having arrived from Europe. His cousin Roman has come to greet him and takes in Niko promising 
 him money, woman and fast cars. Niko soon discovers this isn't the case and that he will have to 
 work some of the debt that his cousin has off, pulling him once again into a world of crime and 
 drugs.
  
  Right from the start you can notice the time that Rockstar have put in to making Liberty City as 
 real as possible. The city is about as real as it's gotten in open world games so far, people talking 
 on cell phones, trying to escape when being car-jacked and conversations in the street that are 
 more then one liners. The realism is amazing, you can see comedy acts; cabaret shows, go drinking 
 at bars and actually be drunk when you come out or just sit and watch TV in the comfort of your 
 own place. All this and some little subtle things make it the best attempt to create a realistic 
 American city seen in gaming so far. But as great as the realism is, it's also brought a depressing 
 feeling to Grand Theft Auto and that's never a feeling that it should bring. The city colours are 
 drab, there isn't any special significance to parts of the city such as landmarks or interestingly 
 design buildings or houses and pretty much all you have is the drab city to look at (apart from 
 a imitation of China town that looked good, but you didn't do much there) . There is no country 
 side to escape to, giving you the feeling of being stuck in Liberty City. The previous GTA title 
 'San Andreas' showed how difference scenery such as country side worked well in the open world. 
 You could see all the farming folk driving their tractors, the biker gangs hanging out at local 
 Cluckin' Bell fast food places and have fun with the county police (who were pretty easy to lose) . 
 When you didn't want to see civilisation you head into the woods and do whatever you pleased. Liberty 
 city is just the same look through most of the city.
  
  As the story progress it just seemed to be more and more boring due to the fact that Niko's character 
 is very unlikable and the rest don't really make much of an impression either. Half of Niko's dialogue 
 are sarcastic comments which when well placed can be humorous but become irritating when used excessively. 
 It's hard to take a lot of things he says seriously. Also Niko's character goes on about terrible 
 things he did and saw in the war and is always complaining about how he wants a different life 
 and that he wants to stop killing; but will quite happily shoot someone in the head 2 minutes later. 
 These qualities make him a difficult protagonist to like and play with. Most other characters don't 
 stand out to be anything that special except Little Jacob. A Jamaican that was caught up with the 
 drug trade somewhere and has a very laid back mood. Although at times you needed subtitles because 
 his accent was so thick you couldn't understand what he said, his laid back/care free attitude 
 and loyal attributes made him a good friend to have and an interesting character in Liberty City. 
 Lack of interesting characters makes it hard to be involved in the story. Also the endings are 
 horrible. Instead with leaving you with a sense of satisfaction its just left it off with bitterness 
 and little sense of achieving anything. Any story that leaves you with that is not a good one.
 
  
  Missions will have you mostly just driving around shooting people. It's a bit disappointing that 
 they couldn't have more variety but there are some exciting missions where the chases take on more 
 involved roles with the surroundings and a bank robbery mission which a highlight of the game. 
 You also have side missions that provide some entertainment such as finding cars and bikes for 
 your friend 'Brucie' (you have to accept them through email) . Also the random pay phone assassination 
 missions are back but really just provide the same thing that most normal missions do without some 
 sort of purpose to the story.
  
  The controls feel pretty well done; it feels quite good to control Niko with the mouse and keyboard. 
 Cars can be a bit of a problem though since some of them just spin out when all you're trying to 
 do is move around a slight bend. The shooting system has improve since San Andreas though with 
 a cover system that enables you survive stepping out into the open when having people firing at 
 you. You are able to hide behind most things like ledges, cars, walls. The cover system allows 
 you look round walls and also fire above things like ledges without having to stand up completely. 
 If you don't want to risk getting hit you can just pop your gun out and fire which can save you 
 from some tight situations. Also you can use both pistol and sub machine guns in or on vehicles 
 which makes running out of ammo less likely. All round an excellent job with controls.
  
  Graphics are where Rockstar really dropped the ball. The game does look nice in general design 
 but having such high system requirements and sloppy porting from the console version have shown 
 bad results. If you don't have anywhere near the requirements chances are you can't even see half 
 of what your doing (although patches have been released to fix some of these problems) . It runs 
 well for about half an hour and then you get some frame rate problems, which can get as bad as 
 pausing for about 5 seconds. Also bits of road or wall might disappear for couple of seconds while 
 you're approaching them. It's a very disappointing effort from Rockstar, since all previous PC 
 versions have been pretty good for graphics standards. At least there is support offered in patches 
 instead of leaving everyone with games you can't even look at.
  
  The music of GTA has always been classic, great soundtracks that stick in your head for ages. Vice 
 City had you speeding down neon lit streets listening to 80's tunes while San Andreas had you bopping 
 to early rap and the rise of Rage Against the Machine. GTA IV soundtrack is really less then memorable 
 though. The only station that really had some decent tracks was Liberty Rock Radio. Once I found 
 the rest of the radio stations to be rubbish, I pretty much only listened to the Rock station. 
 The station had tracks such as 'Jailbreak' by Thin Lizzy, 'Fascination' by David Bowie and 'One 
 Vision' by Queen. On previous GTA games you like almost every station even if wasn't your type 
 of music. Also the talk back radio stations had lost their hilarity due to Rockstar deciding that 
 talking about killing things and swearing a lot is really funny all the time. This kind of humour 
 isn't very witty and it just ended in switching to another channel. The news station though was 
 rather good, it would bring new stories about incidents that you had just caused and say police 
 were looking into it. This added to the realism feeling. What partly made up for the radio stations 
 was that you could put your own tracks on one of the stations and listen to whatever you wanted 
 instead of rap and electro that goes on for 6 minutes. 
  
  Unfortunately the multiplayer aspect I can't bring to the review because of the program that runs 
 it, 'Games For Windows Live'. After spending many hours with a horrible system; not being able 
 to connect and trying and installing lots of different programs I only had one option left, open 
 ports in my wireless router. I'm not prepared to lower my systems security so I haven't played 
 that part of the game. I think Games For Windows Live was a horrible choice to run the online aspects 
 and should have been ran differently. 
  
  GTA IV is a game that is good but it feels so stripped compared to previous GTA titles because 
 of the emphasis made on the realism. You're not able to blow up cars anymore by shooting petrol 
 tanks, the muscle/stamina/fat stats are gone, you can't do crazy things like jump push bikes off 
 the mountain or find strange things in police stations. Also there is no bright city to feel good 
 vibes off. Its quirky things like that that made roaming around the GTA games fun. It feels like 
 it's a step down for the series, it needs to get back to its fun and wacky side. Also a better 
 story for future additions to the series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fred3324
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 21, 2009 5:08 am PT
Review:  The high system requirements, bothersome copy protection, occasional bugs in textures and AI prevent 
 this game from getting a much higher score.
  The stories in general are more fleshed out and enjoyable the characters are more interactive and 
 the action is more entertaining and tactical.
  The game however suffers from insanely high system requirements a PC user is lucky if he can achieve 
 a constant 15fps on even the lowest settings.
  While certainly not utterly unplayable on most of todays systems Rockstar should be ashamed of 
 releasting a game that cannot achieve a constant 30fps on the highest PC system specs available 
 on todays market.
  But if one can overcome the choppy fps, sometimes slowing to a mere crawl during heavy action, it's 
 certainly an enjoyable game that will give you hours of gaming fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brouwerder
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 3:25 pm PT
Review:  1st off, this is the game i have been waiting for sindce the time of tapedeck games on the pc 12-15 
 years ago.
  i have been very disseapointed by the fact that it has a ton of problems. Like graphical issues, 
 launch issues, patch issues, connectivity issues (Rockstar game app. & Windows Live SUCK)
  sure windows live helps make a community where there is none and the score thingies are cool, but 
 if i want to unlock sh*t ill go play Battlefield. last week i started building a 2009 era PC and 
 upgraded my videocard and can now say that GTA IV does not have the same instable graphic loading 
 issues the previous gta games had (think of slow loading textures, texture popups (Hit a roadblock 
 on a bike at 200 km/pu and then see it) or simple loading textures of houses and buildings. this 
 has really annoyed me on my old card (8800GTS 320Mb) and now runs smoothly on my new card (GTX 
 280 OC 1Gb)
  and most importantly: it loads all the textures how they are suppose to load. Another point of 
 critisism has to be that the pc version shows a xbox controller in the menu under configuration 
 and several other parts of the game are developed for consoles. Also i have tried to get my steering 
 wheel connected to the game so i can finally throw Test drive unlimited away (and the dated NFS 
 Crap) to merge yet another genre into this game: driving games
  i got the steering into it, but the pedals ware not so eager, and have enjoyed driving around for 
 a few hours with a camera hack on the hood of the car with my 6 year old steering wheel
  i think a nice G25 wheel would be programmable for all the functions to work but the game does 
 not support this from within.
  so its all improvising.
  i really love and praise this game, but all the issues, the porting, the lack of support, and the 
 ignorance thoards pc users, the stupid triple layer of security (including the 2 extra progs running)
 
  make me wanna throw this game in the bin.
  to bad for me there is no substitute (MAFIA II !!!! WEEEEE) .... yet i hope they dont pull this 
 again for the pc or they will loose the the pc users.
  and ppl with experience all know console users all go to the pc if there playstations and xboxes 
 got replaced 5x in 3 years due to overuse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ashultis
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 16, 2009 10:20 am PT
Review:  I haven't got into this game as much as I had hoped. When I first got this game, it was a lot of 
 fun. I am running at Medium settings and besides the odd graphical glitch I was having fun running 
 around town doing little errands. But most of the time just wandering around town doing fun little 
 mini games like bowling, darts, go see a show, check out the fast food place, etc.
  
  Then I buy a new video and play on recommended settings which make it go up to high.... then nothing 
 but hangs and crashes. I'd make about as far as around the block before it crashed - RESC 10 - 
 Out of video memory. Ring a bell? Tons of users getting this issue, nobody has a clue how to fix 
 it. Turns out you can run the game on medium just fine from my own testing.
  
  So fast forward, new patch gets released that says fixes most of these issues. But then what did 
 they do? Some genius (and I use the term loosely) decides to disable joystick functionality on 
 startup. Don't know why they choose to do it? But instead of putting something in the game that 
 you can enable, they make you put it in as a command parameter in the shortcut icon. Who does that?
 
  
  Not to mention, that even if you add the command parameter in, you found out they re-worked the 
 controller configuration. So before I was driving around using the Left Control stick, now this 
 patch changes it to the D-Pad. If you're not sure what that is, that's the control scheme they 
 put on the original NES. It goes up, down, left, right. When was the last time you saw a car turn 
 90 degrees and then head left? Who's bright idea was that? If you don't believe me, check it out 
 for yourself. Open your GTA 4 directory (default C:\Program Files\Rockstar Games\Grand Theft Auto 
 IV) and look at the readme. txt file under the Controller section and see what the controls were 
 originally.
  
  So what do I do? Personally, I still have an open support ticket with Rockstar games to fix both 
 my RESC10 error and get my controller configuration get reset back to when I purchased the game. 
 It's either that or I can download third-party patches to make my controller (a supposedly supported 
 Logitech Dual-Action gamepad) look like an XBox 360 controller (which apparently doesn't suffer 
 from the D-pad control scheme) .
  
  So personally, this game has been unfortunately sitting on my shelf collecting dust until Rockstar 
 games puts out a half-decent patch that doesn't break what wasn't broken.
  
  If you can get the game to work, congratulations you'll enjoy it. If you don't want the heartache 
 and you have a console, buy it on a XBox 360 or PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AeroGunner
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 12, 2009 6:20 am PT
Review:  This game is great, works perfectly on my Pentium D 2Gb memory Geforce 8600 256mb on average specs. 
 I don't know why all the people are complaining... I am playing with 50 fps and with good graphics.
 
  The details improvements of San Andreas to GTAIV are huge! The sound improvements too.
  The story is great, a lot of diversity missions, a lot of thing to do besides de mission, mini-games, 
 etc...
  Too bad there isn't proprety to buy, less clothes than San Andreas. But the improvements made to 
 this game is something i've never seen before.
  A great game, with fun things to do for at least 2 months!
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Now i'm just filling space for my review please stand by... la la la... dur dur dur... lame lame 
 lame.... Well i think it's enough 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naikori
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 7:28 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV came out for the PS3 and Xbox 360 sometime back in April of 2008. Then, Rockstar 
 announced a PC version of the game, which got many people excited and anticipated for the game. 
 But, little did the people know what Rockstar was going to release, and how well the game might 
 run. When the PC version did come out, tons of complaints were coming in, due to the Crashing, 
 Graphical Problems, and Not being able to run the game At All! I was actually lucky enough to get 
 the game working, even though my Processor wasn't up-to-date with the games recommended requeirments, 
 my Graphics Card wasn't supproted, and I didn't have the recommended System RAM. Surprised to run 
 it, I was able to get a good amount of gameplay from this game, but not all of it was actually 
 good.
  
  The Main Story is you taking the shoes of Immagrant Niko Belic as he travels to Liberty City to, 
 as quote, "Start a New Life" with his Cousin, Roman. You start out by driving him to his place, 
 then getting settled in your new home, and doing jobs for Roman, which is Driving people around. 
 Sounds fun? Not Really.
  
  The Gameplay in Grand Theft Auto IV is really the same thing we have been doing since Grand Theft 
 Auto III, which was 7 years ago. You do a job for some people which would be driving around, assassinating 
 others, bombing a place, or doing something out of the ordinary. Your missions start out by Driving 
 people around the city. Then, you start going into more extreme missions, which are mostly assassinating 
 people. Grand Theft Auto IV did come with a little more suprises, like going on dates, playing 
 darts or bowling, Parkour (my personal favorite) , killing people while they're in a car and have 
 their corpse in the car, the acess to an Internet Cafe (With a few little online suprises) , and 
 having the ability to use a Phone whenever needed. All that seems to be fun, but it actually isn't. 
 It gets pretty boring quickly.
  
  The Graphics are what most people have been complaining about. Even if you have a high-end PC, 
 as quote, "The game still runs like crap". And that's pretty much true. This problem has been happening 
 to me when I play GTA IV: If I change the Graphics settings to a High Rate, it will crash quickly, 
 or so to put it, 20-30 minutes. If I set the settings to low, which don't look good, I get a lot 
 more game time, which is about an hour and a half or more. Now, as said before, the graphics do 
 not look superb on low settings. 
  
  The Voice Acting actually turned out well for every chracter. Explosions and gun shots sound fun, 
 and helecopters are pretty good. The radio stations weren't as good as I wanted them to be. Most 
 of them fail on humor. Actually, all of them really fail when it comes to humor. The good part 
 about the game is the ability to put your own songs into the game easily. You just take your songs 
 and put them in the Custom Songs folder. You then go on the radio in GTA IV and turn to Independence 
 FM and your songs will be playing. But, you just don't get that good feel as you usually would 
 in the Past GTA games.
  
  Money is another noticable problem in the game. You can earn all this money, but you don't have 
 a lot of options to spend it on. Coming from the top of my head, you only get to spend your money 
 on Taxi Fees, Food, Clothes, and Games like Darts. All of those limited things make it non-realistic 
 as it should have been.
  
  Overall, Grand Theft Auto IV is superbly dissapointing. It didn't live up to the hype and the gameplay 
 stayed the same, with the new features not being as cool as it should have been. The past Grand 
 Theft Auto games have been great successes, but this game just dosen't live up to its predeseccors.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RadOxide
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2009 3:13 pm PT
Review:  A long time lover of gta i was mortified when i asked about a pc version of gta: iv at my local 
 retailer only to be told it wasnt being produced for my format! Maybe he wanted to sell me a PS3? 
 lol. In the interim i bought a new tower, not a dogs danglies but decent, and enjoyed some other 
 titles. gta: iv was released on the pc but the early feedback i got was not good. Bug ridden, over 
 hyped, uncontrolable and many many complaints about the security instalations and other accounts 
 needed to play. This put me off from buying it from the outset for a couple of months, but Janruary 
 sales came and i found a copy for a tenner in my local supermarket of all places. Bargain.
  OK. Instalation too hours... and hours... and then patching...
  I didnt find time to play on my 
 first DAY! Annoying.
  When i did get to play i was blown away with the grafix. The fluidity and beauty of the Liberty 
 City environment was so much better than i had expected. I spent my first few hours simply jacking 
 cars and looking for landmarks for my "getaways" to come. When i started my storyline journey i 
 was, and continue to be absorbed by the cinematic way it pans out. Not unusual for the gta series 
 but just a little better. The voice acting and wrigting is exemplary. Side stories have been annonymous 
 side games in the past but gta: iv attepts to add value to "side story downtime" by including real 
 anrrative and virtual social networking into the mix.
  One big hangup i have in the early stages is the absolute stupidity of the police. As yet they 
 are not the thorn in my side they should be. The pc controls have taken a lot of getting used to, 
 and are still awkward with no userdefinable option and no support for my joypad. Driving using 
 the keyboard and mouse combined does have a lot of advantages when you have adapted to it and running 
 Nico around Liberty is excellent. I am loving this game more than Vice City, and i have been told 
 i can add the radio stations from Vice City to this game as well. Havent tried but will. This is 
 the 3rd most addictive game i have played to date and the other two are games "of thier time". 
 Excellent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaak170
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2009 5:39 am PT
Review:  I waited this game for so long. And the wait was even longer till it finally came out on PC. I 
 don't have any of the consoles so I was hoping it finally came out for the PC like the other games 
 in the series. 
  This has probably been said like a million times before me by everyone else, but this GTA really 
 is the best in the series. In my opinion the fact that Rockstar has taken a more realistic approach 
 with this one is just great. The game is more realistic than its predecessors but thankfully that 
 realism hasn't lowered the fun factor at all. You can still do all sorts of crazy stunts, blow 
 things up and so on. And the new physics engine (especially Euphoria) make it even more fun. 
 
  I'm going to tell you about my only criticism about this game right now - it's quite a bad console 
 port. At least it was really bad when it first came out. By now (after two patches) it's getting 
 better though, the last patch gave me about 10 FPS boost. But still the performance should be better. 
 I can't complain about the controls because I have never played either PS3 nor 360 version of the 
 game. I think they're are good with keyboard and mouse. But you can occasionally see strange things 
 control solutions - you have to exit various menus by either pressing E, Backspace or Escape - 
 in my opinion this is kind of consolish (guess I just made up a new word :D) . But other than controls 
 and performance, it is truly an amazing game. 
  The game takes place in rebuilt version of Liberty City, the city we have seen in the first GTA 
 and GTA III (also in GTA Liberty City Stories but I've never played that one) . This version of 
 Liberty City is by far the largest and realistic one. It is heavily based on real New York City 
 and really is just a wonderful piece of art and architecture. 
  The protagonist this time is Niko Bellic - an immigrant from southern Eastern Europe, he's native 
 language is Serbian, but it isn't clear if he really is from Serbia. Niko is a veteran of Bosnian 
 War and has a really troubled conscience because some horrible things that had happened to him 
 and his friends in the war. 
  Niko was invited to Liberty City by his cousin Roman, who claimed in his e-mails to Niko that he 
 is living in a big mansion, that he's very rich and owns sports cars. Of course this is not true, 
 he's actually in big dept to all kinds of crazy characters. 
  Soon into the game however you'll find out that Roman's lies are just one of the reasons Niko arrived 
 in Liberty.
  I'm not going to tell anything else about the story of GTA IV other than it's just incedibly well 
 written and wonderful in every way.
  The soundtrack is also great, including music from a wide variety of genres. The music is delivered 
 once again by radios stations that can be heard while driving the vehicles in the game. 
  I've played this game now for over two months, I've completed the story four times and still haven't 
 had enough of it. The game is just so addictive and great. Even if you just take Niko to a walk 
 in Middle Park or Alderney City or wherever, everything around you is always just so well-crafted, 
 unique and breathtaking.
  Everyone should play this game, even people how don't like violence in games. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -P4R4D0X-
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2009 4:13 am PT
Review:  Admittedly, I never bought San Andreas. I went straight from GTAIII to Vice City, to IV, and from 
 what I've heard of the attempted "RPG elements" rockstar implelented in SA, I'm glad I did. Grand 
 Theft Auto IV plays just like Vice City did, with a few notable improvements, and a few notable.... shall 
 we say.... annoyances.
  
  First, the improvements.
  
  You can swim. I can't remember if you could swim in Vice City or not to be honest, but I know in 
 a past GTA game you couldn't, and that was horrible.
  
  Independance FM. The ability to put your own music into the game CANNOT be overstated. After listening 
 to all of the banter on the talk shows and all of the songs on your "favourite" station (LRR for 
 me) , the ability to grab your music list and put it on shuffle is a great addition. Again, I don't 
 know if that was in San An or not, but its in IV, and its great.
  
  No more body building or required eating. Eating just acts as something to do and replenishes health. 
 Just like strip clubs, having a girlfriend, and picking up hookers. Good stuff.
  
  GPS. I don't know if it was in San An, but GTA REALLY needed that.
  
  Now the double edged 
 sword.
  
  The phone. Acts as both a great thing, allowing you to get cheap guns anywhere in the city, free 
 taxis, organise minigames with ingame characters, get Nikko laid with girlfriends, get missions 
 and continue the story, you know, the important stuff.
  
  Conversely, it also acts as the games chief annoyance. So many times have I had Roman, or Brucie 
 or SOMEBODY call while I was in the middle of doing something and getting pissed off that I didn't 
 want to play pool with them or whatever (pool, btw, handles HORRIBLY on the pc) . Granted, you can 
 put the phone on sleep which will stop all that stuff coming through, but for some reason it tends 
 to have the habit of waking itself up.
  
  Now, the negatives.
  
  Cars handle horribly. The point of turning the steering wheel is to make the car turn, not slightly 
 deviate it's path. This is especially true for sports cars, like the Coquette, which I swear handles 
 worse than a shopping trolly.
  
  Helicopters are really hard to pilot. I don't know if thats just the pc port or the game itself, 
 but it is SO annoying to get a chopper going the right way.
  
  
  The voice acting was good, right down to requiring subtitles to be able to understand what Jacob 
 and Badman (rastafarians) were actually saying (and even then, Badman's subtitles were more or 
 less illegible) .
  
  If your after some good old fashioned Grand Theft Auto gaming, stealing vast numbers of cars and 
 driving them to the outside of a hospital then blowing them up with an RPG, killing hundreds of 
 people for no apparent reason other than a smug grin and a good laugh, then you need this game. 
 The story pretty much sits alongside the other GTA games for quality, and gave me a good 25 hours 
 of playtime to finish. Some of the missions felt like they were being done for the sake of it, 
 but most of them felt like they were progressing towards endgame, which is a definite bonus.
  
  I'd probably go on but I'm tired. Basically, all you need to know is that this IS Grand Theft 
 Auto. If you like Grand Theft Auto, you will like this. I give it 8. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2009 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is the best grand theft auto game so far I played. It shows you how many ways 
 you can kill your enemies, like running them over with a car or allowing other CPU's to kill them 
 for you sometimes. Gta 4 also has a wide variety of weapons which you may spend all your money 
 on in the game. there's so much to do in the game, that I have don't have the patience of doing 
 it all like, cool glitches that make you fly up high, dating every girlfriend to death and seeing 
 every Easter egg in the game like seeing the big green lady's giant beating heart. one thing that 
 drives me nuts at the begging start up at the game is that you must sign up to every little account 
 in order to play the game, like windows live account and rock star social club account too. one 
 major mistake rock star did with this game, is releasing it way too early because it looks like 
 they didn't test out completely their multiplayer add on to gta 4 because lots of people can't 
 connect to it and just recently they released a patch to fix some problems for the game including 
 the multiplayer but it still doesn't work right. Anyways the single player is much more fun anyways 
 it has over 20 hours of missions for you to go through and for an added bonus you get achievements 
 just like some Xbox games. Also try to keep Nikko's friends happy in the game by taking them out 
 to strip clubs in ECT and in return they might help you out by selling you weapons at cheap prices 
 out of a back of a car or help you rig a bomb to a car you're driving around with. Overall this 
 is the best grand theft auto I played yet and I wonder what is coming next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcastilloy2k
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2009 7:18 pm PT
Review:  An awesome game, have no doubt about this... but likes a lot of VRAM... my HD 4870 512MB ran out 
 of buffer after play several hours... I recommend at least an GTX 260 Core 216 for a smooth experience 
 and a E8400 @ 4Ghz or Q6600 @ 3. x for a good gameplay, dont forget the RAM, I have 4GB, then I 
 strongly recommend at least that amount of RAM, and is very cheap have 2x2GB DDR2 800, so dont 
 worry about this.... Another point that I personaly hate is the Securom Part, only 5 activations.......... 
 that is simply stupid... And the multiplayer problems, I cant find a good server to play, always 
 are so empty or simply kick me.... But the single player is the best part of the game, by the way, 
 play with the Blur activated, is a beatiful experience. The TV programs are very funny and the 
 Independence Radio is a thing that i cant live wihout in GTA... ahhhh BTW I hate San Juan Records, 
 Im latin but I hate regueton, is a stupid music... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desmasic
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 2:30 am PT
Review:  I am writing this review after having just finish this game. I have played this game for 50+ hours 
 (proof   http://www. xfire. com/profile/desmasic/) and can without doubt confirm that Rockstar has 
 created a truly epic open world game which other developers from now on will have to work real 
 hard to compete against. Then again, not every developer is working on a game like this, but THEN 
 AGAIN, read on for what I think GTA 4 did truly well..
  
  GRAPHICS / PERFORMANCE ON PC
  - Everyone is bi**ing about performance of this game on PC. Rockstar has stated it already that 
 this game on PC has been pushed to its limits to make it a 'future proof' game. Basically, us PC 
 gamers are experiencing way more beautiful world even on medium settings which surpass the ancient 
 console tech by large margins. I however played this game on my 512MB 9800GTX+ at 'HIGH' (even 
 textures) setting at 1600x1200 res supported by 6GB system ram and dual core 5200+ PC. Occasional 
 hiccups aside, game runs smooth at 35+ FPS in even crowded areas and I LOVED IT.
  
  This game without doubt has the best open world design out there. Every location you visit, you 
 will stop and watch even after playing this game for 50+ hours. It's unbelievable what they achieved. 
 The weather effects alone in this game are the most realistic I have ever seen after Timeshift. 
 The first time it rained in GTA 4 I stopped in the middle of the road awestruck, watching people 
 run for cover from the virtual rain, watching them bring up their umbrellas, watching EVERY surface, 
 even character actual get wet from the rain. This never got old and never will.
  
  The next best effect is the water. Water looks way too realistic from distance and even up close. 
 But the moment you start actually riding a boat on it, it just feels like a sheet of texture moving 
 up and down which just breaks the immersion. But, who gives a s***t, it looks great and you are 
 busy with the action anyway. :P
  
  There's no point in talking about the buildings/architecture because we all know they look realistic 
 and well crafted. So the other element I DO want to point out is that this game has way better 
 looking and functioning 'destructible' (you can put dent in any corner, pieces of vehicles break 
 apart) vehicles with fully functioning headlights and realistic driving animations compared to 
 actual racing sims/arcade games like NFS out there. Pretty amazing. Oh and I never enjoyed crashing 
 and blowing so many vehicles even in previous GTA games. Brilliant.
  
  The only HUGE issue with the graphics is the ugly ass character faces with some really heavy normal 
 mapping making them look so stiff and motionless (even though they have emotions and they express 
 them just fine) . Also, for some reason during cutscenes they turn on that ugly ass blur filter 
 to make everything look so blurry.. it feels like a console game.
  
  I recommend turning the saturation to high and brightness (which is actually contrast) to one slider 
 up as well.
  
  
  AUDIO / SFX
  - Hell. We know this game has way too many radio stations already. Add fully watchable TV programs 
 to the list and you will never get tired (OK, maybe on 50th hour you have heard it all) . So yeah, 
 everything is rocking in this category, no complaints.
  
  
  STORY / VOICE ACTING
  - Niko is my new favorite character. Even RPG's like Fable fail to provide such interesting characters 
 and story (even though it isn't anything groundbreaking) . Presentation is awesome and the voice 
 actors are truly professional. Niko and Roman, both main characters are likable fellows and their 
 voice actors do a great job in bringing them to life. I should probably add that even though the 
 story is a 'so-so' affair, the voice actors are what bring this game to life. They make even lame 
 dialogues in-game sound cool or funny. So kudos to them as well.
  
  
  GAMEPLAY
  - Combat in this game is actually very easy (or 'just right') . I got shot to death only 3 times 
 in the whole game only by the cops and THAT TOO because Niko takes his time playing the whole 'getting 
 into vehicle' animation like he has all the time in the world while a cop standing right next to 
 him is emptying his shotgun into Niko's head. So yeah..
  
  Do note that the combat may be easy, but that doesn't mean it gets boring. You will feel the tension, 
 especially when you are surrounded by 20 goons and having killed them all have the whole LCPD squad 
 on your tail. It's fun. :)
  
  
  TWEAKS
  - Remember that you might be running this game on a 280 or 4870 card and still getting sh***y performance 
 than those running it on 9800GTX+ type cards with 512MB ram. Performance is never the same everywhere 
 so I recommend experimenting (don't try to set the sliders to max and complain why you can't run 
 it) and waiting for patches. The 1.2 patch really improved the loading time and gave better video 
 options. Also, create a "commandline. txt" file in GTA 4 directory (where LaunchGTAIV. exe is) and 
 entering the following commands (in one line) ONLY if you want to play at highest quality:
  
  -nomemrestrict -norestrictions -texturequality 2 
  
  Also, if you encounter hiccups during 
 gameplay, replace 'nomemrestrict' with..
  
  -memrestrict 629145600
  
  Do note that these tweaks set the game to use High texture quality (2) at game start itself. I 
 recommend (with new patch) setting reflection quality to Medium while all other (including Shader) 
 options to High. Set the sliders to 25 (distance) and 35 (detail) if your system is around mine. 
 People using quad core and higher end cards than 9800GTX+ can obviously go higher but don't push 
 it to max. This game might have bugs and some performance issues but remember that this game will 
 be fully playable only by 2010 when new breed of DX11 cards will be coming out. Either way, you 
 are still getting way higher quality than consoles even on medium so whatever. Yeah sure they got 
 to play the game before us, but who cares? We still get the better quality and full experience 
 in the end :)
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  
  - UPDATE -
  Having just finished it I accidentally rated it 9.0. A game only deserves anything over 8.0 when 
 it is pretty much perfect in every department or is way too revolutionary. GTA 4 isn't perfect 
 (sure as hell ain't revolutionary) and here's why..
  
  ISSUES / PERFORMANCE
  - Coming down to planet earth, I review the performance of this game. The visuals are great and 
 I see why they are taxing on even high-end systems out there (hint: developers wanted to max the 
 quality on PC) . BUT, Rockstar Toronto (PC developers) have released 2 patches fixing serious issues 
 and adding performance updates with MORE graphics options, which, frankly, should've been there 
 since day one (more options I mean) .
  
  I really hate these ports (Dead Space comes to mind) where developers give almost no 'useful' customization 
 options for Video to the PC gamers. The whole point of gaming on PC is the flexibility and power 
 available to the gamer to customize the game the way he/she wants to play. These shoddy ports take 
 away this flexibility and force awkward options on EVERY player forgetting that not every PC has 
 that next gen display card or quad core processor. Then they (developers) act all surprised when 
 sales go down and PC gamers are bi**Ing in their forums 24/7 about performance issues. Duh! Give 
 us option to lower/turn off every useless effect we don't want. Example, stuff like blur which 
 is just overdone and looks like someone crapped all over the screen.
  
  With the new patch they added the much needed ability to lower the resolution of shadow maps/reflection 
 maps (the game was forcing high res maps on even low-res before) . Lowering shadow maps isn't necessary, 
 in-fact, I recommend that you don't set shadow quality to anything lower than High (anything Higher 
 doesn't make any difference) since this game has THE ugliest shadows in any game I have ever seen. 
 Lowering the reflection quality to Medium gives a HUGE boost in performance and I didn't notice 
 any loss in visual quality (not that drastic) unless you actually happen to stare at a mirror in-game. 
 TBH, the only mirror I actually saw was in the safe-houses, even that I never actually paid any 
 attention to.
  
  This game also (unlike a port like COD4) doesn't support Quadcore speaker setup. So unless you 
 own a 5.1 system you will have to make do with crappy stereo sound or just stick to using those 
 high quality headphones (which I luckily, have) .
  
  Also, the new patch disabled every possible controller except that **** Xbox controller. First 
 of all, it will be a cold day in hell when I trade my kickass Logitech rumblepad for an ugly 360 
 controller with way too many performance issues on Microsoft's own OS. Second, it's a really cheap 
 way to please their partner in crime, Microsoft, by making everyone buy their hardware. It's just 
 pathetic and I hope next patch fixes this issue.
  
  Also, any game that forces me to install Games for Windows LIVE! and their own sh**ty 'Club' utility 
 which tries connection to net while I just wanted to play a offline SP game gets minus points in 
 my book.
  
  
  So here it is ladies and gentlemen, down to earth, from riches to rags, from 9.0 to 7.5 for GTA 
 IV from me. As a PC gamer, you should learn not to bend over and take it happily while such developers 
 force useless apps into your game. I am OK with copy protection like Securom which never caused 
 any problem for me with any game that uses it. It's when games try connecting to net for no reason 
 which really pisses me off on a whole new level. Leave that crap to consoles, from where you come 
 from and leave PC gamers alone and STD free. That's what I say, agree or disagree? Personally, 
 I don't give a sh*t. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamikazeespleen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 5:07 am PT
Review:  GTA IV. IT has finally been released for PC. I have been waiting since last march to play it. I 
 was very annoyed to find out it was not released on PC the same time as the 360 and PS3 but i was 
 sure it would be ported to pc soon after and my wish has come true! ;)
  
  Before i continue, i'm going to give details of my rig:
  
  OP: Vista 32-bit
  
  RAM: 3 GB
 
  
  Graphics card: 512 MB nVIdia 8800GT
  
  Proccesor: Intel Core2 Quad CPU
  
  Dell 1440x900 screen
  
  (And for all who have vista) , Windows Experience Rating: 5.4
  (Recommended 
 for GTA IV is 5.0 and minimum is 4.5)
  
  Also, after installation of the game (which im sorry to admit was a peice of piss compared to what 
 everyone is making it out to be; it was not complicated at all) i installed both patches #1 and 
 #2 so i do not know what it was like before this.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are something to appreciate in this game. There are little niggles with 
 the textures sometimes. The shadows under the cars look a bit grainy and the ground has a few times 
 jus completely disappeared but came back a few seconds later. These are the settings i use:
  
  Texture Quality: Medium
  Resolution Quality: High
  Water Quality: High
  Shadow Quality: 
 Medium
  Render Quality: Very High
  Definition: On
  VSync: On
  
  These give about 20-30 FPS but even if i go lower than that, i dont get more than 30 so i dont 
 know what that problem is. The FPS i get is completely playable but a higher one is more desirable.
 
  However, the graphic detail on the cars and city is awesome! No wonder it is 16GB of game data. 
 Its a whole city with great quality buildings, sky, water (looks especially amazing) and cars. 
 Did i mention explosions look excellent in this game?
  
  Gameplay: the improvement of graphics compared to previous games, might have let slip to a few 
 reductions in gameplay activities. For example, car customization or paramedic missions (only police 
 missions remain) . Theres no hair or tattoo palours and less choice of clothing. To be honest, i 
 am not fussed too much about that.
  
  The driving physics are one of my favourite parts of GTAIV. I love how the cars drive and slide 
 around corners. It has been much improved since San Andreas. Also, when you crash headlong into 
 a lampost, where the post hit the car, a dent is left in the same place. Its the same if you crash 
 into another car with the left side of the front of your car. The car will only take damage in 
 the exact spot you hit which i absolutely love. Much more realistic. In SA, you hit the front of 
 the car on the side, and the whole bonnet crumples.
  When you hit another perosn, they roll over the car really realistically. The new EUPHORIA engine 
 is excellent!!! They way people fall over the car or roll away is brilliant. It is just fun to 
 drive into them and send them flying lol. When they hit the car, blood is splattered onto the part 
 they hit which is a cool touch.
  
  
  Sound: The engine sounds are good and the city has a sound to it that makes it more alive. The 
 gun sounds and explosions are realisitc. It certainly has a film-like feel to it.
  
  The radio stations, i cant really judge very well. I dont normally listen to it but when i do, 
 i always switch to LCHS (Liberty City Hardcore Station because im into that kinda stuff XD) but 
 form what iv heard, they do sound good as always. Presenters are funny and rude and just fun to 
 listen to while driving along a long bridge.
  
  
  Story: Immersive storyline which has excellent voice acting and animation. Sometimes i just skip 
 the cut-scenes to get to the mission because i am impatient. But they are really good. The missions 
 are fun to do. Most of the time, its  type missions but they include 
 things like a bank robbery, races and helicopter jacking etc. They are well laid out and the speech 
 between Niko and his fellow passengers en-route to a destination are entertaning. They pass the 
 time with there witty banter and piss-taking.
  
  Overall: This is one of the best games i have ever played. i think the complaints are ALL from 
 people who havent got a good enough rig to play it on. My uncle (a hardcore gamer) agrees with 
 me. The people rating it low need to think about why there computers cant run it. I agree there 
 are graphical issues but a lot of them have been sorted out in the latest patches. If yours does 
 not work, even with the latest patches, upgrade your rig and try again. Stop moaning that yours 
 does not work if you have a Pentium 4 and 1.5 GB of RAM. As i said above, my hardware works fine. 
 All drivers are up to date and everything. Check out my hardware onlibe. I would recomend the Quad 
 core indefinitely or the intel Extreme (but thats mega expensive) . The 8800GT is a great card for 
 the money. You will not want anything under 3 GB RAM for VISTA and about 2.5 GB for XP.
  
  Hope you have enjoyed my review. It is my first ever so if my layout isnt great, i apologise.
 
  
  
  
  Leon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ManiacKawaii
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 1, 2009 4:29 am PT
Review:  Awesome! Just awesome.. this game.. I never thought that game from gta series can has nice story, awesome 
 dialogues.. some kind of non-linear gameplay (well you can make choice in the end of the game but 
 still..) What about graphic and realism.. I never see so realistic city.. it's like interactive-killing 
 everything tour around New York! And i love playing catapult and wall hit (catapult from machine 
 and wall hit! xD) You know it's like watching movie.. I.. don't know how to say it.. DAMN JUST PLAY 
 IT!!!!
  
  
  USELESS WORDS USELESS WORDS USELESS WORDS USELESS WORDS USELESS WORDS USELESS WORDS USELESS WORDS 
 USELESS WORDS USELESS WORDS USELESS WORDS USELESS WORDS USELESS WORDS USELESS WORDS USELESS WORDS 
 USELESS WORDS USELESS WORDS USELESS WORDS USELESS WORDS USELESS WORDS USELESS WORDS USELESS WORDS 
 USELESS WORDS USELESS WORDS USELESS WORDS USELESS WORDS USELESS WORDS USELESS WORDS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johan444
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2009 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is so many things, it's addictive, it's fun, it's a fantastic experience and 
 so on...
  
  The storyline... What can I say about the storyline... It's fantastic. The best so far. The characters 
 are fantastic, very funny and very good voiceacting. The story is very interesting and very fun 
 to play. The story really grows in you, and it's almost kind of like a drama series, but much better.
 
  
  The game is very fun to play, funnier than all the games in the series so far, because you can 
 do a lot of more things than before but it still has it's limitations like that you can't fly aeroplanes 
 or have parachutes and so on but it's worth it. Although the system rewuirements are very high, 
 it's also worth it because it has stunning graphics and the quality is just fantastic.
  
  It will keep you busy in months, maybe even longer than that, and it's a game that's worth anything. 
 I hope that they will put the same characters in at GTA V from GTA IV because I really liked the 
 characters. The people that have worked with the game, Rockstar Games and so on, have done a brilliant 
 work with this game and may it be the same in GTA V as well!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KnucklesMcDink
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Ah Grand Theft Auto, a series we all can relate too, be it negative or positive. That's how powerful 
 this game really is. GTA is a household name, from parents who disapprove of the games content 
 and kids and adults alike who relish in driving down the sidewalk and running over every smuck 
 on the pavement just to pick up enough money to buy our first hooker 7 minutes in... Maybe that 
 was just me.
  
  And when it game out on the Playstation 3 and Xbox 360 sales were glorious, companies profited 
 and gamers were as happy as pigs in mud to play this hugely anticipated game. And it was good... 
 wasnt it... content had a few quirks to it and the occasional glitch reared it's ugly little head, 
 but all in all it was a fantastic game.
  
  And how excited am I, a primary PC gamer to hear that they were going to port it to the PC. I could 
 play it on my new, powerful computer with 512 video ram, 3.2 ghz processors, ( 4 of them! ) , and 
 some fantastic new surround sound headphones to immerse myself in the eternal bliss that is aimless 
 GTA antics of blowing up cars for no damn reason at all but to watch the beautiful explosion that 
 appeared on my High Definition monitor.
  
  I pre-order the game. (Yeah, I bought it AGAIN for the PC) , Download it as fast as you please and 
 installed it promptly. 
  Thus our problems begin.
  After several failed attempts to connect to the rockstar server I finally lock on, only to find 
 out that I have to register 2 different accounts before I could even see a menu screen, but I worry 
 not. I know that my trust in Rockstar is justified and that they will deliver gaming glory to me 
 in the end.
  I start up the game and all hell breaks lose.
  I go into the graphics menu and start to tinker, and by tinker I mean stare at it blankly in disbelief. 
 
  
  The game does not allow you to change the graphics options if you do not have a good enough computer.
 
  I'm sitting in front of my brand new computer with a stunned look on my face and a tear welling 
 inside of my left eye, but I worry not. I know that my trust in Rockstar is justified and that 
 they will deliver gaming glory to me in the end...
  So I run the benchmark, and fantastic! It seems that the game will run on medium graphics, and 
 get a steady 42-44 frames per second, making it smooth and enjoyable... and I smile.
  
  So I start up a new game, and the cinematic opening plays out... unfortunately I realize about a 
 quarter of a second in, that I have absolutely no sound whatsoever.
  
  I get into the game, and within 20 minutes of tinkering I discover that if I change it from Dolby 
 Surround 5.1, to Run O' The Mill Stereo, I can at last have the sound that I so crave, even if 
 it isn't in glorious surround, but I worry not, I know that my trust in Rockstar is justified and 
 that they will deliver gaming glory to me in the end...
  
  I exit out of the game, because alt-tab doesnt work... only to see it crash.
  I get back in the 
 game to find my menu options defaulted. I turn them back to where I put them, and start a new game.
 
  Ah but what is this! It seems that the game is not only very laggy, almost to the point of unplayable, 
 but that a good quarter of the textures in the game are black, or missing. I run the Russian protagonist 
 around the city for a good 2 minutes, only to have the game crash on me, mid car-jack, with an 
 error message.
  
  Finding the game to be unplayable the day I installed it, I closed remaining programs on my computer, 
 shut it down, and crawled into bed, alone (again...) and disappointed (again...) .
  A patch surfaced a few weeks later, fixing my texture problem, but the lag remains, in heavy doses. 
 I turn every thing down, and play through the game until the end. Disappointment reigned over me 
 the duration...
  
  Grand Theft Auto 4 is an awesome game. One of my favorites. Unfortunately Rockstar not only dropped 
 the ball in this port, but took the ball, stabbed in relentlessly with several very sharp spears, 
 spit on its rubbery little corpse and then threw it onto the earth, stepping on it on it's way 
 out...
  That is why I am giving one of the best games (If not the best) of 2008, A 5, out of 10.
  Rockstar... I 
 trusted you. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vladex00
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2009 1:40 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is structured similarly to previous games in the series. The core gameplay 
 consists of elements of a third-person shooter and a driving game, giving the player a large, open 
 environment in which to move around. On foot, the player's character is capable of walking, running, 
 swimming, climbing and jumping, as well as using weapons and basic hand-to-hand combat. Players 
 can steal and drive a variety of vehicles, including automobiles, boats, helicopters, and motorcycles. 
 Grand Theft Auto IV takes advantage of Natural Motion's Euphoria engine, which combines artificial 
 intelligence, bio mechanics and physics to make NPC behaviour and movement adaptive and more realistic.
 
  
  The open, non-linear environment allows players to explore and choose how they wish to play the 
 game. Although storyline missions are necessary to progress through the game and unlock certain 
 parts of the map and content, they are not required, as players can complete them at their own 
 leisure. When not taking on a storyline mission, players can free-roam. However, creating havoc 
 can attract unwanted and potentially fatal attention from the authorities. Niko can pick up prostitutes 
 and pay for three different levels of sexual service, and request a private erotic dance whilst 
 visiting lap dancing clubs. [28] The game gives an un-detailed portrayal of sexual acts with prostitutes 
 and there is no sexual nudity. [28]
  
  It is possible to have multiple active missions, due to the fact that some missions will run over 
 the course of several days and will require the player to wait for further instructions, etc. The 
 player can also partake in a variety of optional side missions. For the first time in the series, 
 Grand Theft Auto IV features "morality choices" at several points throughout the game, in which 
 the player is forced to choose between killing a character or sparing their life or killing one 
 of two characters. The game has two different endings, which are determined by deciding which of 
 the two missions to complete. The player can choose between a revenge mission or a deal mission, 
 each leads to a different ending.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Force_field
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 11:42 am PT
Review:  I will put just a few "useful" thoughts:
  
  UP:
  - Solid story and action
  - Very decent (but not excellent) graphics
  - Positive evolution in gameplay "look-and-feel"
 
  - Many fine tuned and obviously different physics models for different vehicles.
  
  MID:
  - San Andreas was somehow better and more addictive if you ask me 
  - Very clumsy east-European 
 "flavor" implementation in acting, language, names, manners... (trust me, I'm from "there") ;)
 
  - Car chases are a bit empty, no real thrills there... maybe they are too slow or too "lazy" or 
 whatever... but it lacks a bit of that "adrenaline rush" expected in every GTA game.
  
  DOWN:
  - Unstable framerates and questionable performance, even on high-end machines
  - Occasional 
 bugs and glitches (not so many @ my place, but obviously various problems across various configs 
 and setups)
  - Many pointless repetitive missions (drive from here to there)
  - "World sidemissions" like stunt ramps and pigeons are "superhidden" for my taste... I really 
 don't have enough time to look for 200 pigeons hidden in the darkest or tallest buildings, windows, 
 chimneys... stupid! I don't want to mention some stunts which are "not good enough" all the time... 
 Is there ANYONE who wants to "jump" several thousand times just to be "good enough"?! 
  - Coffee is too cold ;)
  
  There's nothing more to say about this "legend"... but it should 
 be much better to become such a legend as its predecessors! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TryDaBeardON
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2009 10:57 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4 on PC was apparently meant for hardcore GTA fans only. I don't think anyone else would be 
 able to make it through its installation process and keep his sanity. Not only it took so long 
 that at times it seemed the data was being carried from the DVD-ROM to the hard drive by gimpy 
 gremlins, it also required you to install Windows Live and Rockstar Social Club, the former in 
 order to be able to save (!) your game, and the latter in order to be able to launch (!) it. Then, 
 once you've spent what seemed like a year of your life giving the control of your rig over to these 
 beasts, the real trial began. Behold the recurrent fatal errors of doom, which could only be appeased 
 by a dozen restarts, two handfuls of pulled hair, a rain dance, and a sacrifice of a cute kitten 
 (or at least that's what finally worked for me.)
  
  The good news is, once you're through, you're through. Mostly. A crash here and there, a lame graphical 
 glitch now and again, but nothing major. And you'll soon see that it was all worth it.
  
  The game world created here is like nothing you've ever seen, not even in previous GTA games, which 
 were praised for their attention to detail. The folks at Rockstar went so far this time, the detail 
 here pays attention to them. It simply must be experienced to be believed, especially at the start 
 of the game. As you play more and more, you will begin to see the Liberty's limitations, the locked 
 doors and the like, but that's only because you will be already spoiled by then. More on that later. 
 Literally thousands of the city inhabitants move about, exchanging pleasantries and, more often, 
 unpleasantries. I can't speak for all the ethnic groups represented here, but Russian speech and 
 slang you'll hear in and around Hove Beach are extremely authentic and colorful.
  
  And that's really the main point of GTA 4, it's just so damn deep and authentic and colorful. Take 
 a cab ride, or a train ride. It's the stuff of dreams. There's radio from the previous games, but 
 there is also TV and Internet this time around, and none of those are treated like second rate 
 citizens. The main character of the game is often treated that way, but that's because he's not 
 a citizen at all, but a fresh-off-the-boat immigrant from the Balkans. Of course, as the game progresses, 
 following the laws of karma, most of those mistreating him end up living shorter lives than he.
 
  
  The gameplay has not changed much from the previous entries. You steal cars and do missions for 
 various scumbags as you try to fulfill your desire for revenge. Most missions come down to "go 
 there, kill that guy" routine, but there are over 90 (!) of them here, and there are enough of 
 original missions - ranging from change-of-pace to epic - in between, to keep it interesting. But 
 to tell you the truth, the missions themselves, even the good ones, are just icing on the cake. 
 The cake itself are the cut scenes, through which the story is told, and, more importantly, the 
 characters you meet in the course of this tale. Rockstar has elevated this art to a whole another 
 level here. Other developers - I'm looking at you, Bethesda - should attend game story classes 
 using the cut scenes from GTA 4. Or just understand the single most important truth - focus on 
 the characters and your stories will come alive. There is so much brilliant stuff in this game, 
 you will still be cracking up as you remember certain scenes long after it's over. The writers 
 responsible may not have created a masterpiece of literature, but they sure as hell created a masterpiece 
 of interactive storytelling.
  
  The main story and missions aside, there is a lot of other stuff to do. The side missions, the 
 girlfriends, TV, internet, and so on. To be honest, this aspect is not as good as the rest of the 
 game, and the above-mentioned limitations come to play here as well. As I said, a lot of doors 
 are locked; the strip clubs are fun, but the girlfriends and scoring with them is not; a lot of 
 secondary activities from the previous games, most notably San Andreas, were dropped due, apparently 
 to being deemed boring, but I missed them here. There is, puzzlingly, a pretty severe shortage 
 of clothing shops and, by extension, clothing choices. No haircuts, no tattoos. And my main complaint, 
 the meaninglessness of money. Throughout the course of the game you will be told repeatedly that 
 Niko's main motive, aside from revenge, is money. He'll often talk of "needing" money, complain 
 of money being wasted, but the truth is, there is plenty of it and nowhere to spend it. Your safe 
 houses are free, the cars are free - the are dealerships in the city, but you are not allowed to 
 buy cars - the clothing shops, weapons, restaurants, bars and clubs cost barely anything. So every 
 time I heard about "We need money, Roman," or whatever, my immersion and enjoyment suffered. I 
 finished the main story with over a million in my pocket, so what? It would be so much better if 
 money did, in fact, matter. If it constantly trickled away on bribes, lawyers, rent, Niko's cousin's 
 gambling habits, I don't know, something, so that our hero was really forced to do those missions 
 to stay alive and fed. Why not keep property purchases from the previous games? Why not allow us 
 to hire French maids? Or French maid wheel, uh, girls? Anyway, can't win them all, I guess.
  
  Still, if you're Rockstar, you can win plenty. Is GTA 4 the best game ever created? Probably 
 not. Is it a perfect 10? Nope. Is it a masterpiece? The crap-eating grin appearing on my face every 
 time I read the quote at the top of this review says hell yeah.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gereksiz13
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 27, 2009 2:59 pm PT
Review:  When I played the first GTA I was in high-school. Me and my friends used gather in one of our rooms 
 and have fun four hours without being aware how many had passed.
  
  When GTA III was released, I felt like I had to change my agenda. That was a new thrill and I remember 
 my excitement buying new hardware just to stray that immense environment.
  
  I played San Andreas twice, finished the whole scenario and b-sides in both of them.
  
  I had 
 been waiting for GTA IV to be out on the market since I heard its news.
  
  _._ _._ _._ _._ _._ _._ _._ _._ _._ _._ _._ _._ _._ _._ _._ _._ _._ 
  
  I played the game on 
 my friends X360 , it was nice. The city, the liveliness, the diversity of the NPC's on the roads.
 
  
  Everything seemed perfect, except that annoying camera angle problem.
  _._ _._ _._ _._ _._ _._ _._ _._ _._ _._ _._ _._ _._ _._ _._ _._ _._ 
  
  Yet, this is a review 
 on how the game is on PC.
  
  2 words: IT SUCKS!
  
  I was really "DISAPPOINTED" by the rushed work of ROCKSTAR. I hope they are aware of this failure 
 and they are planning a fix.
  
  A slightly older game Mass Effect has better graphics and much lower requirements. This is because 
 the games' engine adjusts itself to the hardware you own.
  
  I was going to rate this game with a "2", but my "hopes and expectations" that ROCKSTAR will find 
 a cure to this disease raised my rating by 2. I'll wait and see what "revelations" will emerge 
 after these "black-holes" of game porting failures. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinjo_jo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 8:29 pm PT
Review:  In-spite of various complaints which I heard from different I still decided to go with GTA IV as 
 I was still not sure whether the game would work or not. As I got the game the installation took 
 me about 20 minutes and I was still not sure whether I would be able to play the game with my GPU.
 
  I started the game and wow I saw the game with the amazing graphics which I have never seen before 
 in any games, the journey of my game play started right at midnight to early morning. One Game 
 which really closes to consoles in terms of graphics was GTA IV.
  
  Talking about the game play the handling of helicopter was really improved as I couldn't fly helicopter 
 in previous series of GTA IV, however there were certain elements which were removed from the game 
 , gym , tattoo which I really enjoyed in Gasman Andreas. But the one thing which seperates GTA IV 
 from other games is the freedom to gameplay and the cellphone wherein the missions are given on 
 cell phone and internet cafe. Though handling of cars could have been improved , shooting was excellent. One 
 of the best story which keeps you involved in the game everytime. Great Side Missions and Excellent 
 CutScenes.
  
  Graphics quality of the game was one of the best , once you have turned on the motion blur it even 
 look much better.
  
  One of the most annoying feature of the game was you have to login to games for windows save the 
 game GTA IV also allowed to upload game play videos through rockstar social club. 
  
  
  Overall 9.5 / 10
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: millerlight89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Story- The story in this game is not its strong point, but it is fluid with its twist and turns. 
 It does have some elements in it where you get to choose your patch, but it is simplistic and not 
 very deep compared to something like Mass Effect.
  
  Graphics- The series finally got its much needed graphic overhaul, but it does have some problems. 
 For 1 the shadows are a it funky to say the least, though this was fixed a tad bit in the second 
 patch (1.0.2.0) . There is also no option for AA. This is really uncommon in PC games not having 
 an AA option, it just goes to show it was a poorly ported game. Now that we have gotten the bad 
 out of the way there is also good. There are some nice weather effects such as thunderstorms, and 
 also some descent lighting, and car models. Though the graphics are descent at best the series 
 never was known for its graphics.
  
  Gameplay- The game has its boring moments, but for the most part it stays entertaining. The combat 
 has been revamped and now has a little more depth to it, for example the cover system, and also 
 the hit detection in the limbs. The driving has also been changed, some do not like it but I believe 
 it to be a a welcomed change, the car physics act much more realisticly. 
  
  Bottom line- The game does do allot of things right but also does some things wrong. This game 
 is an overall joy to play though and should be checked out by any sandbox action game fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skid_Wolf
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2009 3:30 am PT
Review:  well gta iv is a very nice game and i really liked it on the first i did not know that the game 
 will have multi-player that i really like because you will earn rank and unlock clothes plus i 
 have really like to is the achievement thingy where you try to make counter attack in 10 min or 
 make 10 vehicle explode in one explosion it really rocks and about the story its good its about 
 a guy (niko belic) was scammed by his cousin (roman belic) that ha has a mansion and having a good 
 life buts its a vice-versa when he steps in to the land of opportunity he will have to work for 
 goverment, families and friends
  at the end his love will be killed by the one who you worked for sorry for kate she had nothing 
 to do with the pegorino family nice story and i thank rockstar for the game and i have some problems 
 about the social club when i press the icons from the site like the marathon or police something 
 it says that i have to be online or played and i have nearly 35% of the game ive finish it with 
 a offline account cause when i bought the game games for windows live is not available at Philippines 
 it links me on a blocker thing at social club oh heres the site http://socialclub. rockstargames. com/games/gtaiv/Blocker. html 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emilyek_1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 1:57 am PT
Review:  Let's get this out of the way: the port is mediocre. It isn't completely game-breaking, but it 
 is bad.
  
  What's most disappointing, however, is that GTAIV could have really been one for the ages: it's 
 big and beautiful, the characters are engaging, the voice acting is superb, the re-tooled combat 
 is fun.
  
  GTAIV purports to be a new sort of GTA -- one where all the goofball violence, keystone cop and 
 metagame silliness were removed to make for a more serious, cinematic storytelling kind of experience. 
 Sadly, the game fails on two fronts.
  
  Here's one of them -- and it's a big one: the game doesn't do story as well as its predecessors. 
 
  
  Vice City is arguably better in this department, and when it comes to the rags-to-riches narrative 
 of San Andreas (what I think we assume Niko's journey will also be about) the game is vastly inferior -- 
 both in terms of the narrative arc as well as the basic mechanics of the journey. 
  
  For me, placing GTAIV and San Andreas side-by-side is the best way to show us what sort of game 
 GTAIV is; doing that lets San Andreas illuminate exactly what we lost in terms of actual gameplay 
 (and what I am compelled to call player choice) : 
  
  Where is the character customization that included lots of clothing options, hair salons, tattoo 
 parlors and gyms? 
  
  Where are the planes? Go-karts, RVs, service vehicles, bikes and skateparks? Runnable marathons? 
 Mountain bike races? Parachutes? Ambulance missions? Pimp missions? Customizable vehicles? 
  
  Purchasable businesses and safehouses (stuff that should be integral to the plot, I might add) ? 
 
  
  Gambling? UFOs? Ghost cars? Stunt driving school? 
  
  Where is the skill-up system, in which you get better at driving through practice?
  
  Well, 
 that's enough -- I'm sure that there's much, much more that I've forgotten.
  
  Oh, and here's a good question:
  
  Why is the money I work so hard to make so absolutely useless?
 
  
  GTAIV suffers, like most modern games do, by insisting on cutting edge visuals while aspiring to 
 be a movie instead of an actual game. Rockstar blew their wad on making NYC and making it big. 
 The problem is that they forgot to put much in it.
  
  This is a shame. If the Big Apple were as fleshed-out as the City of Angles was, we could have 
 had a serious contender for best game of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jorjdboss
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Don't waste money buying GTA IV PC. It's a disaster! You need a really high end PC to make it run 
 without the graphics problems like missing textures. You'll probably need a dual core or quad core 
 CPU above 2.4GHz, at least 3Gb system ram, 8800 series/HD4830 or better with  1Gb graphic memory. The 
 first time I started it, the cars were hollow, only building windows appeared and Niko was invisible 
 most of the time! The only thing visible was the map. I tried solving the issues in many ways but 
 never solved it. If you can get a insanely high end PC then you can try it out, maybe. But why 
 get a 1500$ PC when you can get a console for less than quarter the price (or even lesser for the 
 X360)
  My rig is C2D 2.2GHz, 1.5Gb ram, 8600GT 1Gb, WinXP which meets the min req.
  Go for a X360 version, (no worries about compatibility) It's awesome! you'll play it for months 
 on the 360! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrshivery
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2009 3:21 pm PT
Review:  I was a bit hesitant I admit. I had seen all of these reviews bashing its performance. I decided 
 to go ahead and give it a try. 
  
  My computer is a Pentium Duo 3.16 Ghz. 4 Mb of RAM. GeForce 9800 GTX running this on Windows XP.
 
  
  The game has run a hair away from flawlessly on my computer. In the 20 + hrs that I have played 
 the game I had a crash to the desktop once. 
  
  The graphics= Very Good
  Story= Fantastic
  Controls= Easy for me to use
  Overall Fun= Easily one of the funnest games 
 I've ever played.
  
  The number of different things you can get into in this game is amazing. anything from playing 
 darts, and shooting pool to creating absolute havoc city wide. The missions range anywhere from 
 dropping off a package to taking out a mob of union workers and their bosses. There is still plenty 
 of game left for me to discover, I hear you get to fly a helicopter. 
  
  The only reason I didn't give this game higher than 9 is because of all the crap you have to install 
 in order to play the game (windows live, rockstar social club, linking the two) . It was a small 
 hassle but well worth it.
  
  If you've been thinking about getting the game.... get it, you will soon find it is well worth it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goldrocker
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 21, 2009 10:36 am PT
Review:  Cant say how disapointed i got with this game. I has the graphics of a 2006 game, and requires 
 a fully patched up 3-sli computer to look like it. Story is irrelivant at this point, how many 
 gangster games are out there anyway? Options menu is totally wasted, nothing changable in it, if 
 you dont have a powerful enough computer for it. And what the hell takes up all that space it requires 
 anyway? Fully overrated. Definitely. There is nothing more to say. I'm giving it a 1.0 for being 
 the game with the bigest name being the biggest disapointment on the PC. This game is far from 
 becoming something big for mainstream gamers, unlike its predecessor, this cannot be played unless 
 you have a power plant at home. It's even boring story-wise. So american, it brings nothing new 
 to the community apart from a world where you can do a lot of stuff... if you have the right computer 
 for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _HAV0C_
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 9:03 pm PT
Review:  What are video games made for? To entertain you, for you to experience something that isn't boring 
 and something that's not going to put you to sleep. That's what the video games are all about, 
 right? Apparently, in the eyes of creators of GTA4, video games should be about [almost] realistic 
 physics, hesitation, and making difficult decisions. Sounds fun to you? 
  It just bugs me that of all people, video came creators would choose in-game's reality over entertainment. 
 Dont get me wrong, game wasn't all that dull and boring, the main reason for that is the story 
 line. A well-written, interesting storyline with a number of plot twists that are unpredictable 
 to a first-time player. Then of course, its pretty much instantly ruined by a number of those hard 
 decisions I was talking about; dont get me wrong, those moments will not ruin game's pace, neither 
 will they make you think for too long, I'm just saying that they dont belong in a video game such 
 as Grand Theft Auto, a game that used to be all about mayhem, chaos and insanity.
  Another aspect is this game performance on a PC. Its bull****. Without even looking that great, 
 it manages to draw TWICE as much resources as the best-looking game out there, which leads to only 
 one explanation: to this day 8xxx or 9xxx nVidia gpu's (and ATI equivalents) are still doing a 
 fairly good job of running modern games, which means that vast majority of people will not bother 
 to buy a new graphics card. In order to regulate that, there needs to be a game that is very popular, 
 but at the same time an incredible resource hog.... you get the picture. So bottom line: a game 
 with a great storyline, but at the same time with a number of performance issues, 'average' graphics, 
 and a way too serious approach at the story. Almost like a drama movie. {7.5} 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordkill
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2009 6:49 pm PT
Review:  It's truly a great game. I've played 3 Gta before and I say this one is the best they made so far. 
 It worked great on my PC, ( Phenom quad core processor, 4 gig ddr2 800, Ati HD 4830 video card, 
 Amd 780 chipset ) all graphic options i played highest 8x anti-alias.
  The story is ok but it sure will be nice if you can control the dialogues between the character 
 like Oblivion or Fallout 3, but nevertheless, I truly enjoyed playing this game and the Price is 
 just right, unlike the prices of other games, they dropped the price so I'd rather buy the original 
 than pirated discs. I recommend this great game to other gamers out there, It's worth the price 
 that you'll pay. Rockstar truly made a masterpiece in this one, So i hope it's much better if there 
 is a dialogue between the p [layers so this game would be complete. Excellent work!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Computerbits
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 11:05 am PT
Review:  Very few downsides indeed, mainly i miss some of the features from earlier GTA games, like car 
 customizing, getting the army to chase you when your wanted level raises enough and small stuff 
 like that.
  
  Yet it offers way better graphics and physics than any other game ive tried, the animations are 
 mainly pretty good detailed and the world actually have a "real" feel to it, the world is alive!
 
  
  The missions are great and plenty also theres a lot of sidemissions to do and some missions actually 
 offers a choice of completion so the outcome can vary depending on your own choices.
  
  I have discovered very few bugs but yet a few graphical ones have come accross now and then, but 
 nothing more than i would expect from a game these days.
  
  It hardly ever crashes or locks up and never have i been confronted with a GTA error msg as a lot 
 of other ppl claim they have.
  
  All in all the game is just great with many hours of entertainment in it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oneiill
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 15, 2009 1:47 pm PT
Review:  I can't describe this masterpiece game. I waited for it very long. dates have been changed few 
 times. But the game is actually very good. The graphics are astonishing, so is the control of the 
 car and police high speed chases. Mission are various from driving to (of course) killing. It's 
 also modern like using cellphone and Internet cafes. You can even take pictures with cellphone 
 and call other. First Grand Theft Auto that can let you do that. But all this have bad side: very 
 good computer. I can run it with low graphics and have 19 FPS (frames per second) . It's kind off 
 bad but i don't mind playing it. As long as i can play it. When I first saw GTA iv it was only 
 for PS. And i thought, what a shame not to do it for PC too. But my efforts to look continuously 
 to Game Spot have paid off. And here it is. I know I'm kind off writing this late but you what 
 they say: better late than never. After all this game is one of the best i ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Van_manowar
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2009 1:26 am PT
Review:  1. Graphics - 10/10. You will never see a better virtual New York. Everything in this game looks 
 real.
  
  2. Optimization/Performance - 8/10. Too big system requirements. But the graphics are sooo brutal, 
 so we can forgive Rockstar
  
  3. Audio - 10/10 Typically for Grand theft Auto the sound acting is great and the soundtrack is 
 perfect.
  
  4. Gameplay - 9/10. You can use your phone to call friends and you can visit clubs, bars, strip 
 clubs, you can play bowling, pool, darts, boating, cruise with helicopter and more. You can use 
 internet in the game, get jobs from there or date new chicks. During some missions you can decide 
 to kill somebody or save the bullet. Also the end of this game is up to you.
  
  5. Story - 10/10. Very good story. You play as russian immigrant Nico Bellic. First he will help 
 his cousin Roman with his small business, but soon he will mess with the mafia. 
  
  6. Artificial Intelligence - 10/10 - When you walk on the street you get the feel like the people 
 you see are really alive. Their behavior is very realistic. Your enemies are even more intelligent 
 than you are :-D. This make the game a bit hard sometimes
  
  7. Physics - 10/10 - No comment here. Just one word: PERFECT.
  
  8. Realism - 10/10 - Playing 
 this game makes you forget that you are home on the PC. It really takes you in Liberty city and 
 you really are Nico Bellic. :) ) )
  
  9. Total - 10/10. Giving this game less than the max is a CRIME. There is only one minus. Many 
 parts of San Andreas' gameplay are removed. You won't be able to fly with the Hydra, you cannot 
 customize vehicles no more, you won't be able to go to the gym and make big muscles, or change 
 Nico's haircut. If you are a big fan of San Andreas (like me) you will be a bit disappointed. But 
 if you give GTA IV a chance, you will be playing it not for hours, but for days nonstop :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suratharajan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 12:13 am PT
Review:  the grand theft auto series which has paved a platinum road way to success ..... its got its own 
 thing in free play ..... so what makes this series a special one ...... the choice of the story is 
 based on your actions and the physics is brilliant and paves a way for a next generation of game 
 play ... We thought it would be a little more longer hours of game play and also this graphics makes 
 this a great game..... man i enjoyed the story the bad is that it had a very sad ending i really 
 felt for not killing dimitri in the first place ........ OK now what shall i say ......... yeah if 
 at all we had some other intelligence weapons this game would have been great ......... killing 
 flying rats was a very interesting job...... accessing cop cars and searching for a criminal through 
 a cop computer is more technological and the character is given a cell phone through which we can 
 call enter cheats and access camera for some missions in which the person is displayed in the phone 
 through sms internet should have been much more interactive 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgraphic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 7:02 pm PT
Review:  This is my first ever GTA game that I have played for so many hrs and almost finishing all the 
 quest. Niko Bellic is one of game's most likable thug. I am inclined to believe he is real because 
 of the animation and character voicing. The story line is mainly about gangsta families which is 
 weak but the gameplay is really solid when getting things done for people. The ingame world is 
 the most believable yet with moving cars that react like real cars and weight. The most beautiful 
 part of the game is lightning at night. U can almost always stop the car just to stare at the lights.
 
  Niko is a thug for hire in liberty city with lots of currupt people and politicians, you almost 
 wonder how the city stays alive. I can go bowling, darts, drinking or racing with my gangsta friends 
 and even call them on fone for a meet. The shooting, hiding and sneaking is done well and puts 
 other games to shame period. My personal favorite is indepedent FM where I can play my own music 
 from my files. Imagine Niko riding with a thug while bumping "The Game". It feels fresh everytime 
 because I can also change the music which brings new game experiences.
  
  Technically GTA IV is pretty good with top notch character animation and overall atmostphere is 
 spectacular. The sound is awesome and this is the game that uses 80% of each core in my AMD Phenom 
 X4 9950BE. I also average at least 20fps minimum with my HD4850. It also uses 2.5Gigs RAM out of 
 3Gigs RAM
  
  The downside is you need to install rockstars social club and also have a live login so u can earn 
 achievement points and also there will be some disappearing textures and longer loading times but 
 other than that I love this game. My 2008 game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3Dmajid2008
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2009 12:22 pm PT
Review:  I never expected that GTA is this version is this !! GTA IV in fact is a MasterPiece ! Nice physic 
 ... that make this game real.
  Nice Graphic ... if you want to compare this version with last version ! Nice GamePlay ... in this 
 version game play is improved very well ! you can cover and kill enemys and other ... Nice AI ... 
 really RockStar made a PRO AI for this game ! Nice Fun ... its so fun when you go to coffenets 
 or other place ! Nice modeling and texturing ... And in a word ... MasterPiece !!!
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  You can read it again (lol) : 
  I never expected that GTA is this version is this !! GTA IV in fact is a MasterPiece ! Nice physic 
 ... that make this game real.
  Nice Graphic ... if you want to compare this version with last version ! Nice GamePlay ... in this 
 version game play is improved very well ! you can cover and kill enemys and other ... Nice AI ... 
 really RockStar made a PRO AI for this game ! Nice Fun ... its so fun when you go to coffenets 
 or other place ! Nice modeling and texturing ... And in a word ... MasterPiece !!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Emdis
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 11:46 am PT
Review:  I haven't played this game for long enough to have a very good idea but after a couple of hours 
 I have to say that I like it so far. Of course it requires a fancy computer, of course it is a 
 shame when this game runs pretty smoothly on PS3 and XBox 360, last but not the least the registration 
 process is long and painful. 
  This is all true.
  BUT being new to the GTA saga (no kidding) I have to say that I'm pretty impressed by the way the 
 town has been designed, it really looks alive with people roaming around, traffic, cops and so 
 on ... it reminds me of Mafia (one of my favorite games ever) . 
  The characters are well chosen even if a bit too "characterized".
  The story of the game has 
 been well written, it looks like a movie.
  
  Overall, GTA IV is a very interesting experience, it is too bad that the game requires such a powerful 
 computer to deliver it's full potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigj687
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Good : Excellent story. Liberty City feels real and alive. Lots of fun extras to keep you busy 
 even after the game is done.
  
  Bad : Immense system requirements slow down the frame rate. Occasional wierd texture (mostly the 
 jagged looking shadows) .
  
  Overall : If you have a powerful rig, it's worth buying. If not, then don't bother trying.
  
 
  This game, all by itself is good. However, it stands in the shadows of giants, namely San Andreas, 
 and simply doesn't compare. I understand the devolopers trying to "streamline gameplay", but something 
 is truly lost from the GTA series when I can no longer purchase heat seeking rocket launchers or 
 miniguns. Multiplayer is definatly an improvement, and probably where I spend most of my time on 
 the game.
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reblue007
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2009 4:33 pm PT
Review:  It's very good hard and amazing. I feel when I play it will 
  
      
    
    
     
   
    
     
     
   
      
   
     
     
     
     
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
      
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameMonsterCJ
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2009 2:43 am PT
Review:  yeah right here comes GTA IV one of the best all rounder games yeah!
  the graphics are kinda cool but on the first time it ran on my pc it was slow
  man but my pc 
 is a duo core 2 and i have Nvidia Geforce 280 GTX Separate
  512 mb not onboard nothing could run so slow right? anyway next day 
  the game is just fine i 
 think i'ts kinda technical problem how ever
  when talking about GTA IV's features it's simply OUT STANDING!
  
  GTA iv has many varieties 
 u lik u could eat play GTA 2 games perform
  insane stunts go anywhere do anything kill any one advanced hand to hand
  weapon combat's that'll 
 BLOW U'R HEAD OFF! like take cover using cars and
  objects jsut like the matrix and like never before all new vehicles when u'r
  drive a bike u 
 where a helmet when u drive a car and u crash our guy will blow
  off the screen like a chicken!! that's funny
  
  and
  make sure u're mom or dad never be seeing 
 u playing !or be 18+ or higher!
  I'M VERY SAD THAT THIS GAME IS M- RATED! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackangus531
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 9:12 am PT
Review:  I have been running GTA IV for about 3 weeks now. It had video issue originally that were corrected 
 with the downloadable patch. Now my only real issue is that I have a 50/50 chance of it actually 
 loading when I start the game up. Other than that I have found the gameplay to be excellent. Occasionally 
 I have felt that the missions are a little too simple but all in all if I have 30-45 minutes to 
 blow there is nothing like getting into someones car and causing as much mayhem as you can before 
 its time to turn it off and join the real world. The real world has its good times as well but 
 the escape of GTA IV is well worth its frustrations. The video editor has also been a nice touch. 
 Although it can be time consuming I expect that with a little more practice and some patience I 
 will be putting up quality vidoes. I would not recommend this game to those with systems more than 
 a year or so old as it is very heavy on the graphics. I have a dual core 3ghz with 2 gb ram and 
 an invidia 7900 which certainly isnt old but I can only hope to run this beast on medium at best. 
 Enjoy the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quakedance
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2009 5:10 am PT
Review:  Needs powerful PC, if that's in check, you're not just good to go, you're ready for a game to knock 
 your sox off :) :) :)
  
  Graphics: 10/10... only if you've got a nasty PC ;)
  
  Gameplay: 10/10... doesn't get any better than this, even the cutscenes are done better than some 
 movies, however still keeping gameplay, alive and raw, with cutting edge radio stations, street 
 characters, driving aspects and fantastic integration of mobile phones, city effects and amazing 
 attention to detail, makes this the best GTA ever and one of the best gaming experiences in modern 
 times...
  
  Sound: 10/10 Top knotch:)
  
  Value: 10/10 So much in this game gonna be playing for a while and then some..
  
  Tilt: 10/10 
 Classic game and a classic piece of work, thanks Rockstar company, hope the next GTA is as good, 
 Ladies, you've reached Roman Belic, Leave a messssagggge ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avatarcj
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2009 4:40 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV is the best game that RockStar did . The graphics are Awesome . Even in medium 
 the game looks great. The way you jump and the way you get hurt in an accident is ......... INSANE 
 . GTA San Andreas is history at graphics , even in the gameplay . 
  Grand Theft Auto IV is structured similarly to previous games in the series. The core gameplay 
 consists of elements of a third-person shooter and a driving game, giving the player a large, open 
 environment in which to move around. On foot, the player's character is capable of walking, running, 
 swimming, climbing and jumping, as well as using weapons and basic hand-to-hand combat. Players 
 can steal and drive a variety of vehicles, including automobiles, boats, helicopters, and motorcycles. 
 Grand Theft Auto IV takes advantage of Natural Motion's Euphoria engine, which combines artificial 
 intelligence, bio mechanics and physics to make NPC behaviour and movement adaptive and more realistic. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChR666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 1:48 am PT
Review:  Hats off to Rockstar, for this superb game!
  
  My hardware:
  Intel Quad Core Q6600 @ 3.00Ghz
  ASUS EN8800GTX 768MB
  4GB RAM 800Mhz
  20' Samsung monitor
 
  1 Terabyte HDD 7200rpm
  
  After overcloking my already blazing-fast processor to 3.00Ghz, upgrading to 4GB Ram 800Mhz (had 
 only 2GB) and to the latest nVidia drivers (which were released a few days ago on the official 
 website) , I am thrilled to say that I average 30+ fps with ABSOLUTELY NO STUTTERING or LAGGING 
 at ALL on:
  
  Resolution 1680x1050 (max monitor res)
  High textures
  High rendering quality
  And the rest at 50% of their values (could crank up a bit more but there's 
 no need to) .
  
  I'm extremely happy that I'm able to enjoy this game at such high graphics & resolution and performance
 
  Oh and by the way. If you've got a monster PC like I do then you should get this game for the 
 PC because it is MILLIONS OF TIMES better than the cheap PS3 and Xbox360 which play at lower resolutions 
 and graphics. Who needs consoles with such a monster PC? :)
  
  --------------------------------
  --------------------------------
  GRAPHICS: 10/10
  You 
 will definitely be amazed by the superb attention paid to detail by Rockstar (if you run this at 
 high, or even medium quality - still looks much better than the consoles by the way) . I've been 
 playing the game for so long (I'm at ~50% progress) and I still can't stop loving the detail! 
 
  I can describe the graphics with words. Let me just tell you that this game has the best graphics 
 you will see after Crysis. Honestly.
  
  SOUND: 9/10
  All the sound effects are brilliant. I only give this a 9/10 because the radio doesn't really have 
 many good songs. All the radio shows are magnificent and can make you laugh hundreds of times, 
 but the music is really not that good. You will not find a single metal song that you will like, 
 for example, I can guarantee that. Still you can add your own songs for playback, which is great, 
 because now I can listen to Metallica even when playing this magnificent game!
  
  GAMEPLAY: 10/10
  This game does more than any game has done yet. Simply. You use your mobile 
 phone to contact people, ask them out, or use your friends' special abilities (ie Little Jacob 
 can provide you with guns whenever you feel like it) . You can replay any mission you fail to accomplish 
 right away, you can find hot dog stands and replenish your health, or enter various shops (even 
 places where vehicles are sold) , customize Nico's appearance and much, MUCH more!
  This game is definitely the most realistic game to date.
  
  REPLAY VALUE: 11/10
  Yeah so 
 11/10 is impossible but believe it or not you're gonna want to finish this game at least 2 times! 
 Because you can make decisions at some points that change the flow of the game! But I'm not gonna 
 spoil this for you, you're gonna have to find this out on your own!
  
  BUY OR RENT?
  -Simple. BUY!
  
  
  --------------------------------
  --------------------------------
 
  
  
  CONCLUSION: Got a monster PC like I do? Got ~30Euro? Then GTA IV is the game for you?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arashcrysis
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2009 4:18 pm PT
Review:  I Aint got any heavy machine, My laptop specs are:-
  
  HP Pavilion Dv9000 series
  Intel Core 2 duo 2.4GHz
  4GB RAM
  320GB Hard disk
  512MB Nvidia Geforce 8600M GS
  
  Runs 
 Well and perfectly @ Texture = Medium and other details on High, Resolution = 1048x798 something... 
 All distances 25 to 30...
  
  All u need is to Update Latest VGA drivers (Nvidia or ATI) , Download and install the Patch.. and 
 everything will be perfect..
  
  HATS OFF TO ROCKSTARS, HATS OF TO GTA IV, HATS OF TO NIKO BELLIC...
  
  Simply the best game 
 i have ever played in my Life.. During the gameplay, game never crashed, no errors at all, i dont 
 know why people are complaining about it, i was very happy with this game and i am still VERY DAMN 
 Happy with this game.. Keep it up rockstars, m proud of u :)
  
  Thanks to Rockstars for Making such an awesome game, keep making such fantastic games, Hats off 
 to Rockstars :)
  
  And ppl stop complaing about this superb PC version of GTA IV, spend some money from ur pocket 
 and enjoy the game.. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djnet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Stand by for the next generation of the Games with Crysis graphic, huge like GTA and free life like 
 The Sims series.
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV is structured similarly to previous games in the series. The core gameplay 
 consists of elements of a third-person shooter and a driving game, giving the player a large, open 
 environment in which to move around. On foot, the player's character is capable of walking, running, 
 swimming, climbing and jumping, as well as using weapons and basic hand-to-hand combat. Players 
 can steal and drive a variety of vehicles, including automobiles, boats, helicopters, and motorcycles. 
 Grand Theft Auto IV takes advantage of Natural Motion's Euphoria engine, which combines artificial 
 intelligence, bio mechanics and physics to make NPC behaviour and movement adaptive and more realistic.
 
  It is possible to have multiple active missions, due to the fact that some missions will run over 
 the course of several days and will require the player to wait for further instructions, etc. The 
 player can also partake in a variety of optional side missions. For the first time in the series, 
 Grand Theft Auto IV features "morality choices" at several points throughout the game, in which 
 the player is forced to choose between killing a character or sparing their life or killing one 
 of two characters. The game has two different endings, which are determined by deciding which of 
 the two missions to complete. The player can choose between a revenge mission or a deal mission, 
 each leads to a different ending.
  
  What realese in next GTA?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 8:09 am PT
Review:  Before this game came out, Rockstar was one of the few developers that PC aficionados could always 
 trust to provide the best possible content. Manhunt and the previous Grand Theft Auto games always 
 put their best foot forward when it came to the PC version. In return for an extra six months of 
 patience, you could play a game with better graphics and better controls. Sadly, that glorious 
 trend has come to an end. Grand Theft Auto IV for the PC isn't just a lazy, substandard port with 
 a few problems. It is, quite possibly, the worst ever port of a console game to the PC. Between 
 the poor graphical performance, rigid controls, and the shameful shilling for "Games for Windows", 
 just about everyone can find something to hate about this irritating and disappointing port.
  
  It doesn't take long to see what is wrong with this port to the PC. The install process, by 
 itself, is enough to give anyone a bad impression. The whopping 13+ GB of hard drive space and 
 the 2-DVD, 15 minute install process is at least forgivable. However, the game requires all kinds 
 of bloatware and updates to start. First, it requires Rockstar Social Club to play multiplayer 
 or share captured videos. It is not a terrible nuisance, but if you already have a Steam account 
 and a Games for Windows Live account, then the last thing that you need is yet one more account 
 for just one game. Second, the game requires a Games for Windows Live update. To download this 
 update, you must quit the game and install it separately, since the in-game updater for this service 
 is broken. (This service was broken for Gears of War too. After a year we still can't get a game 
 that properly updates GFW Live) . The game then requires SecuROM installation and on-line activation. 
 Then, it requires Service Pack 3 for Windows XP or Service Pack 1 for Vista. It does not warn you, 
 however, if you have not installed them. Instead, it just crashes and gives you an error message, 
 forcing you to play the Google search minigame to find the problem. If you have not yet installed 
 these updates, then be prepared for another long delay on what is already a marathon install and 
 activation process.
  
  If you get the game up and running, you will immediately notice some other annoying problems. The 
 game has significant performance issues. My system, which played Crysis on high settings and can 
 play Fallout 3 with almost everything maxed out, can only play this game on Medium settings, at 
 best. Graphically, Grand Theft Auto IV is significantly below the quality offered by today's high 
 end games, but it chugs mightily in open spaces. GTA IV looks essentially like GTA III with a huge 
 texture and lighting upgrade  it looks more like an Xbox 360 or PS3 launch title than a full-fledged 
 next-gen game. It definitely does not look bad, and its technical shortcomings are greatly redeemed 
 by terrific art direction and the sheer variety of scenery present in the game. However, it runs 
 at far lower frame rates than it should for this level of visual quality. I guess that I should 
 count my blessings, since at least I could get it to run.
  
  Low frame rate isn't the game's biggest problem. More significant is the game's lack of support 
 for any gamepad other than the Xbox 360 controller. Every Grand Theft Auto game at least since 
 III has supported all kinds of gamepads for people who don't like driving with the mouse and keyboard. 
 Precise analog control is absolutely necessary for the game's harder missions. Unless you have 
 an Xbox 360 controller or you want to use a hack, then forget about it. Fortunately, there is hack 
 for it that is compatible with the unpatched version of the game. However, the hack was "mysteriously" 
 disabled in version 1.1. Apparently, exclusive DLC isn't the only way that Rockstar is paying back 
 Microsoft for that $50 Million that changed hands. Regardless of what controller you use, you can't 
 reconfigure any buttons, the controller configuration screen shows that Rockstar never had any 
 intention of supporting any other controllers. Quite simply, it is a disgraceful shill for Microsoft 
 and the Xbox 360, and everyone at Rockstar should be ashamed of participating in it.
  
  It is truly a shame that Rockstar made so little effort into making this game enjoyable for PC 
 gamers. GTA IV has many fine points that separate it from other games of this nature. Rockstar 
 has shown repeatedly that they are the kings of the open-ended action game, and with GTA IV, they 
 have proven it yet again. Liberty City is bigger and more dense than it was in GTA III, and almost 
 none of it is copy-and-paste. When it comes to games of this variety, Rockstar clearly "gets" it. 
 The design of these games is simply beautiful, more so than the open-ended games that repeat the 
 same thing over and over (Assassins Creed) or use algorithms to generate a bunch of generic content 
 (Oblivion) . Every city block and every street seems different from the last. Exploration is fun 
 and no matter how many times you drive through the city, you can find something new. The city is 
 bursting from the seams with charm. This series is the only one where a city actually seems like 
 a city. It's almost enough to make up for all of the problems with the PC version.
  
  The core of GTA IV's gameplay is typical GTA fare. Missions involve taxiing your pals to and fro, 
 protecting comrades while gunning down enemies, chasing other criminal through the city and on 
 foot, and so on. If you wish, you can just roam the city wreaking havoc, destroying random vehicles 
 or killing random victims At times, the gameplay comes together perfectly, just like you have always 
 known it. The minor details that simulate driving and pedestrian behavior have improved noticeably. 
 The addition of more realistic damage modeling and Havok physics is a huge upgrade to the game 
 over the previous versions. Driving full speed through a traffic jam with a semi truck and smashing 
 cars into oblivion is more fun than it ever has been. Unscripted mayhem waits around every corner.
 
  
  Another staple of Rockstar games is terrific audio, and GTA IV does not disappoint in this department. 
 The voice acting is excellent, as always, and the huge variety of radio stations offer some great 
 driving music. The indie radio station on which you can play your own songs is a great addition, 
 and one of the few improvements for the PC version.
  
  Notably absent from GTA IV is the ability to steal a taxi, ambulance, or fire truck and perform 
 instant missions with these vehicles. The loss of these parts is a big disappointment, as those 
 were great time killers that also familiarized you with the city. In their place is sim life type 
 dating and friendship gameplay, which is boring and doesn't add a lot of value to the game. You 
 maintain relationships by occasionally taking out friends or girlfriends for some kind of entertainment. 
 The bowling, pool, and darts minigames are dull and not more fun to play more than once. The girlfriends 
 get angry with you if you drive too recklessly or cause too much carnage, which sort of defeats 
 the purpose of the game. The hidden items like the pigeons and the stunt jumps are much harder 
 to find. In this reviewer's opinion, GTA IV would have been a better game if it stuck to its core 
 gameplay of gunplay, fast driving, and finding random goodies throughout the city.
  
  Series veterans will notice another major departure from the previous Grand Theft Auto tiles. This 
 game is less cartoony, and more realistic than Rockstar's other games. This change is not obvious 
 at first, but it shows up in subtle ways. The main character, Niko, is very well fleshed-out and 
 he shows a lot more realistic emotions than Tommy Vercetti or Carl Johnson. Your friends and girlfriends, 
 likewise, are more serious this time around. The handling on the cars is less forgiving and, overall, 
 it feels a bit slower.
  
  One area in which GTA IV takes a step backwards from its predecessors and other Rockstar games 
 is its humor. It is certainly not for a lack of trying. The game has the usual assortment of fictional 
 radio stations, along with newly added televisions shows and even stand-up comic routines. What 
 it lacks is a sense of subtlety or variety. All previous Rockstar games brilliantly satirized American 
 culture in a manner that you might expect from The Simpsons or the Coen brothers. They made fun 
 of Left and Right, and just about everything in between, and they didn't feel agenda-driven. The 
 comedy in GTA IV, however, feels a lot more like the product of angry Liberals than the clever 
 writing of the previous games. The radio and TV humor in GTA IV endlessly bludgeons you over the 
 head by bashing of the war on terror, the Patriot Act, Republicans, Conservative talk radio, Fox 
 News, the occupation of Iraq, America's lack of socialized medicine, America's obesity problem, 
 the treatment of natives by colonial settlers, and many other topics. All of these topics are made 
 fun of through the use of unimaginative caricatures. The sole source of news in the game is "Weazel 
 News", an ultra right wing network with slogans like "Liberals suck" in its advertisements (Weazel 
 News = Fox News Har har Get it?) . One TV show is a "Reublicans in Space" cartoon where three meaty 
 cigar-chomping redneck space explorers indiscriminately murder a friendly space alien in the name 
 of America and democracy. Whether you find this one-note, ham-fisted preaching to be funny will 
 probably depend upon your own political leanings. GTA IV does have its funny moments and amusing 
 characters though. It is still above average when it comes to video game humor, but not as good 
 as Rockstar's previous efforts. (If you wish to play a game with hilarious satire and social commentary, 
 I highly recommend the new Sam and Max games) .
  
  Thanks to advancing technology in consoles and PCs, Rockstar could have made GTA IV the best ever 
 game in the series. Instead, they blew the opportunity in a lot of ways. Even without all of the 
 problems created by the terrible PC port, I would rank this gameplay slightly behind that of Vice 
 City, San Andreas, and Bully. For the next game, Rockstar needs to get back more to the roots of 
 the series and ditch the dating minigames in favor of more driving and shooting challenges, and 
 more stuff to do in the city. More importantly, they need to make the PC version worth the extra 
 wait. Unlike Rockstar's previous games, I have a very hard time giving this one a high recommendation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AL-Samurai
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2009 2:12 am PT
Review:  what a ,beautiful, Great, wonderful, action game you can't play action game like this in this tired 
 world. 
  
  what a ,beautiful, Great, wonderful, action game you can't play action game like this in this tired 
 world. 
  
  what a ,beautiful, Great, wonderful, action game you can't play action game like this in this tired 
 world. 
  
  what a ,beautiful, Great, wonderful, action game you can't play action game like this in this tired 
 world. 
  
  what a ,beautiful, Great, wonderful, action game you can't play action game like this in this tired 
 world. 
  
  what a ,beautiful, Great, wonderful, action game you can't play action game like this in this tired 
 world. 
  
  what a ,beautiful, Great, wonderful, action game you can't play action game like this in this tired 
 world. 
  
  what a ,beautiful, Great, wonderful, action game you can't play action game like this in this tired 
 world. 
  
  what a ,beautiful, Great, wonderful, action game you can't play action game like this in this tired 
 world. 
  
  what a ,beautiful, Great, wonderful, action game you can't play action game like this in this tired 
 world. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 001master
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2009 1:07 pm PT
Review:  I Aint got any heavy machine, My laptop specs are:-
  
  HP Pavilion Dv9000 series
  Intel Core 2 duo 2.4GHz
  4GB RAM
  320GB Hard disk
  512MB Nvidia Geforce 8600M GS
  
  Runs 
 Well and perfectly @ Texture = Medium and other details on High, Resolution = 1048x798 something... 
 All distances 25 to 30...
  
  All u need is to Update Latest VGA drivers (Nvidia or ATI) , Download and install the Patch.. and 
 everything will be perfect..
  
  HATS OFF TO ROCKSTARS, HATS OF TO GTA IV, HATS OF TO NIKO BELLIC...
  
  Simply the best game 
 i have ever played in my Life.. During the gameplay, game never crashed, no errors at all, i dont 
 know why people are complaining about it, i was very happy with this game and i am still VERY DAMN 
 Happy with this game.. Keep it up rockstars, m proud of u :)
  
  Thanks to Rockstars for Making such an awesome game, keep making such fantastic games, Hats off 
 to Rockstars :)
  
  And ppl stop complaing about this superb PC version of GTA IV, spend some money from ur pocket 
 and enjoy the game.. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guna24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 11:30 am PT
Review:  This should be the best of GTA series ever. Great story mode with good gameplay i noticed some 
 peoples review im sure that peoples wont play the game morethan a hour. I come to the story mode 
 now. You have to select your path during the gameplay. You should take your own decision that makes 
 really living in liberty city. next graphics... damn thats amazing you feel the real living city 
 in night timings very colourfull and lightining effort makes stunning.. This game allows you to 
 do what ever you feel in the situations. The only problem is this game is getting less FPS. Above 
 30 FPS should be the smooth playable. This is the greatest game that i ever play i feel like niko 
 bellic (game chracter person) i finished this game and i start to play 2nd time again to choose 
 my path take my decision diffrent what i was taking in my before games..... Dont get dissappointed 
 GTA 4 will give you more realistic fun that im sure... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 206khalid007
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 9:13 am PT
Review:  I have this game in X-BOX 360, but I wanted to see the pc graphics so I bought it. But when I started 
 the game I was too disappointed. Rockstar games should ashamed about the pc virsion of GTA 4. I have 
 played games like Gears of war, Assassin's Creed, Turok etc. in full graphics. In my PC Every game's 
 graphics was better than X-BOX 360. But when i started GTA 4, Ican not able to play this in minimum 
 requirements. I face a lot of graphics problems and thought i should change my PCI express which 
 is XFX 9600GT DDR-3 512 Mb. It's graphics in X-BOX 360 rocks, but pc graphics is @ %!# 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chinto20
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2009 9:27 pm PT
Review:  I've been reading some of the reviews of some users, and even though they're right the performance 
 in this game is awful even with the best hardware, it's still wut a grand theft auto game should 
 be, humor, story, dialogue, guns, sex, drugs, endless fun when u activate cheats and blow helicopters, 
 the graphics are really nice, the characters really look like they're alive, the facial expressions 
 are nice, the story is the best above all, it's like watching an engaging movie and when u stop 
 for a few seconds you'll be thinking: OMG I want to know what's coming next.... those are the good 
 points.
  I have only 2 bad points for this game:
  As you should already know, the performance in this game really sucks, maybe it's our graphics 
 card, maybe it's a poor game optimization, but with the recommended req. You should at least be 
 able to play at 1024x768 with med settings, (8600gts and a core 2 duo) with 30fps but with that 
 kind of hardware the most u can expect is 800x600 at ultra low settings to have 30fps I mean with 
 the minimum req. u'll get like 15fps with everything at low.
  the other point is that sometimes the games stutters for no reason even if you're going in a empty 
 street with nothing going on, and some textures are broken when u look them at 50 mts 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerkat
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2009 4:34 am PT
Review:  There are some improvements, but nothing like the next gen game this was supposed to be. Still 
 no walking into any buildings, still plenty of loading time. Now I don't know what the criteria 
 is for scoring games here at gamespot, but I'm getting the feeling like scores are relative, to 
 how good other games are at the moment. And because the gaming industry is pumping the shelves 
 with shallow crap, and nothing lives up to the hype lately, all games that stand out a little are 
 Editor's choice... GTA IV does have a above average storyline and the graphics are nice if you 
 can run the game on 1980x1200 with textures at least to a medium, otherwise the lack of good antialiasing, 
 means the game is as jagged or worse as it's PC predecessor San Andreas. There are no quirks like 
 hooking a trailer to a truck, no firefighter missions or medic missions, only cops this time. No 
 planes, only choppers... I mean, what is the drastic improvement that this game should have in 
 order to deserve the 9.0, I really can't find it and I would love to love GTA. It all just seems 
 scaled up, with better graphics and insane requirements. And shouldn't gamespot be recommending 
 games to average gamers. 2 of my friends bought the game also, both with minimum requirements met, 
 both don't see anything in the game except for cars and pedestrians, and I now that that is a common 
 issue, not to mention other ingame bugs that occur regardless of the power of your machine. Oh 
 and if you think you have the latest and greatest such as SLI, forget about it, doesn't work, however 
 it does utilize the 64bit architecture and multicore technology. This game is a huge dissapointment. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markbowen_99
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 13, 2009 12:16 pm PT
Review:  To begin, this is GTA, so you all know what you're getting: Unrepentant violence and plenty of 
 adult dialogue and humor. The game certainly does not disappoint in those areas. 
  
  The story in GTA IV is engaging, but the vast and varied map locations of GTA San Andreas are missed. 
 That said, there are some gameplay improvements over GTA SA, particularly the transportation system, 
 giving you the option to quickly get where you're going by taxi or subway.
  
  While I enjoy the actual gameplay in GTA IV, a few things under the hood spoil it for me. Firstly, 
 there is the overblown protection system, by which you have to activate the game online, then sign 
 into not one but two online services, Rockstar Games Social Club and Microsoft Games for Windows 
 Live. Well, you can create an offline GW account, but as I discovered, then you cannot continue 
 your saved games on your laptop or any other computer. (I know there are workaround hacks for that, 
 but I should not have to use a hack on game for which I paid.)
  
  Secondly, and with considerable impact on one's overall enjoyment of the game, is the archaic save 
 system, which hasn't changed since 2001's GTA III. Progress can be saved only between missions 
 in safehouses, or automatically when missions are completed. This is not a problem in much of the 
 game, but some missions can be lengthy and difficult to complete. There is nothing more annoying 
 than spending 30 minutes or more on one of those missions, only to be killed or screw up a critical 
 stunt at the very end, and have to play the whole thing over again. Worse, several missions require 
 you to drive a long way to get to them, and you have to sit through the same dialogue during the 
 car journey over and over. Seems to me the game designers could throw in a few save points in those 
 longer missions, without detracting from the game one bit.
  
  Lastly, the game requirements on the PC are rather steep, and I don't see any reward in the game 
 graphics for meeting or exceeding those requirements. I have a GeForce 8800 GTS, a good dual core 
 processor and 4GB of fast memory. The game will let me set most options to high (though textures 
 detail is limited to medium) , but frankly the game doesn't look any better to me than GTA SA, apart 
 from some lighting effects -- and there are still some considerable graphical bugs in the game. 
 I think the programmers could have squeezed a bit more performance out of the game engine, without 
 requiring players to go buy the latest GTX280 or ATI 4870. And the game install eats a whopping 
 15GB of hard drive space.
  
  So my review in a nutshell: gameplay good, Rockstar bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisser665
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 2:43 pm PT
Review:  I got this game on Christmas day and have spent nearly all day every day since then playing it. 
 As the professional reviewers put it, the story and humanity of the characters is one of the most 
 appealing aspects of this game.
  As someone who has played the GTA series since one of the original iterations (GTA 2,) to see the 
 transformation that has taken place both with characters and the actual cityscape since the days 
 past is absolutely stunning. Aside from multiplayer games, never before have I played a game that 
 had such human ambiance. The people walking on the streets, going about their business, the ebb 
 and flow of traffic, the city lights... it's really quite incredible.
  It's important to remember, however, that the game HAS changed in other ways too, besides adding 
 an almost unheard of amount of detail to the scenery and whatnot. First off- car handling: In this 
 game, cars perform less arcade style and more simulation. This means you will have to actually 
 use the break to take a turn, or to avoid a car within this incredibly crowded city. At first this 
 was a little uncomfortable, but I'm since adapted easily and don't think twice about it. (The exception 
 to the "simulation-style" driving is with the Emergency brake: use that and you'll swing your whole 
 car around, even at 5mph ;)
  Camera's a little strange too, but I use WASD and mouse to drive, which was different from my old 
 style, but fits perfectly now. 
  Now with the gripe: Antialiasing. Doesn't exist. There is none. None whatsoever. In this day and 
 age, (with Crysis-performance computers slowly becoming the norm) this is unheard of. In some ways, 
 I feel that the way the graphics were handled made the game seem more of a port than the PC performance 
 it always should have been. I mean, for Claude's sake, the game got its roots on the PC! 
  Maybe I'm being a whiny little whiny thing. My point is that the gameplay is fun, thought-provoking, 
 enticing, and fantastic. The graphics are great, if you look past them. Rockstar did a fantastic 
 job with this one. If only they'll give PC users the same care on its next multi-platform project 
 as it gave the Xbox and PS3 consumer base. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hents7
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2009 6:46 am PT
Review:  I want to start with whiners . I looked the reviews of this game, player reviews of course and 
 I found quite a lot negative reviews . Most of 'em where just stupid, because some people have 
 to put their graphics to max and since it has quite big requirements, then of course it will slow 
 your game down quite good .
  
  Even that GTA 4 on PC is basically the same like on consoles, it's still great . Almost forgot 
 .... those, who hate the camera movement, move it with your mouse ;-) . So the gameplay is awesome, 
 the cars are awesome, graphics are quite good (even not on max, like on medium or something) and 
 you don't have to do missions all the time, you can do streetfights, if you get bored, but you 
 have to have money for it, because you probably end at the hospital or the police station and that 
 will cost ya .
  
  So it is a good game, the best I've ever played and worth to buy and not take it back to the shop 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: qNVNp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 1:39 am PT
Review:  the game is amazing ,but too demanding & that's Y i rate 9.5
  -GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA 
 IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA 
 IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA 
 IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA 
 IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA 
 IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA 
 IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA 
 IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA 
 IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA 
 IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA 
 IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA 
 IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV -- GTA IV- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtomicDoom
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 5, 2009 9:02 am PT
Review:  "Disastrous"
  
  Same bad camera behind the car, that usually shows me the side of my car, or even the front (when 
 i do a U turn) , instead of whats ahead of me on the road, making me sometimes even crash. Its horrible.
 
  Dont like my character movements. He either walks very slowly or runs almost out of control. Dont 
 care much for that.
  Dont like the fact that i wasnt able yet to escape the cops on foot by hiding, like in Mafia. Maybe 
 its possible, i just wasnt able yet to do so.
  Its an astoninshigly bad work of programation and optimization for the pc, with bugs everywere 
 and oscilating between 20 and 35 frames on a pc that is able to play just about anything ive tryed 
 on it with usullay all options maxxed, including falloout 3, COD 5 and Grid, all games that look 
 better too.
  And i get these frames by sacrificing view distance, wich means that i cant see s***, and sometimes 
 end bracking with the backs of the stopped cars, specially at night.
  Then theres all that crap they make the players have installed and running on the pc :S. OMG, are 
 they nuts or what.
  Im sticking to this note for now, as i dont think that theyr effort, for this pc version, was very 
 convincing , and for some game design flaws that i dont like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamzashah
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2009 6:07 am PT
Review:  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice 
 game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve 
 game of the year award
  Great Graphics nice game play 
  this game deserve game of the year award
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ntermini
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 3:47 pm PT
Review:  A well thought out game with tons of playable options and outcomes. There is no way to play this 
 game once and be done with it, because choices along the way determine the outcome, therefore your 
 ending and my ending might be different. I play a ton of games in my free time and I have not had 
 one that's always pulling me back to my PC like this game. I am really looking forward to the next 
 version! The PC version is a little rough and you do you need some heavy hardware to run the game 
 but outside of the quirks its an amazing game.
  
  This game completely immerses you into the character set and you begin to feel like you are the 
 main character, living his life and dealing with the consequences of his decisions. There are very 
 few games to date that I have played that create this feeling about the game and about the character.
 
  
  There are some minor issues with the port from console to PC, but the PC version is definitely 
 worth it. If you have a mid-range rig you should be able to play this game without any issues, 
 but you will have to turn down the settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dievyan
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing GTA since the second one came out, it was the craziest in that time, why? Because 
 you can go anywhere, the possibilities were endless that time, but now you ask yourself why can't 
 there be more guns to use, why is there no map, why won't the cops stop you just by shooting the 
 tires.
  
  Cause' it SUCKED compared to now, then came GTA 3, yay it's in 3D now, you can jack airplanes now. 
 You would jump into the water so that the cops will think that your missing, instead you drown 
 and die, what's with that, what kind of human would drown in a swimming pool with lifeguards that 
 can see you, then came GTA vice city came, you could now pilot a helicopter now, but you still 
 can't swim, at least the cars can float with a cheat. San Andreas, that was way too hard for a 
 game, and you can get hit from a car a mile away, you could stop your car and the hood would go 
 flying for no reason what so ever. But then, finally, the most realistic of all games in the series 
 was out, GTA IV, where every rockstar employee put there all into this one awesome game, where 
 HAVOK physics engine, and DMM physics engine and the EUPHORIA physics engine work perfectly together. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: borne_god
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 12:24 pm PT
Review:  I love the game... this games got great replay value just like its predecessors. The graphics is 
 awesome... and everyone loves the radio stations, man its funny... But I hate those lags... This 
 is a harcore game and that lagging wont stop it but if rockstar could solve that problem it will 
 be a more heavenly experience...
  
  I must say just driving through the streets of liberty city will make you right at home. And you 
 know right away in your heart that its time to bring this beautiful city to its knees. Its to rule 
 or to be ruled... The story is awesome, i wish that it just didnt get over...
  
  I loved the new car-jacking procedure... You can choose what to do, either break that damn door 
 open or snitch in. The cars are good... but the controls alot harder... 
  
  I still have to try online its sure gonna be crazy. 
  
  Thank you rockstar for making another 
 great game...
  
  Peace! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zionid
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 3:48 am PT
Review:  The game play and all that one expects from Rockstar Games is the same as before. But there are 
 no rules without exceptions: The graphics are really cumbersome. Well sort of.
  I had purchased a nVidia 8800 GTX for 890.- Swiss Francs just to play Far Cry and Crysis. The graphics 
 there were awe-inspiring. I thought this would be an easy feat for GTA IV and was really amazed 
 at the poor graphics performance. At times the fps were down to 10. Although I've updated the drivers 
 and all.
  The game itself has evolved since the last release. The navigation in the map is the same. The 
 communication via mobile is cool and is by no means just a way of receiving messages, but supplies 
 you with the ability to take on jobs from various sponsors/contractors/pimps/etc any time you wish. 
 
  Driving around and just exploring the city is very time consuming but compensates for with flashy 
 signs and nicely rendered objects. The curbs are still a bit choppy when looked at closely while 
 falling out of a car driving at 100 mph, but the people on the streets are all nicely dressed up.
 
  So far I like the story line and at stages in the game you have the opportunity to pick up new 
 contractors (blue people marked on the streets) by performing errands for them at random places 
 and times during the game. 
  You will find yourself wondering why you are still playing the game even though the graphics and 
 fps are frustrating at times and would dare say: "the game play and depth of the story are an excuse 
 to stay up til four o'clock in the morning."
  I wonder why this game received an Editor's Choice, because the game was really poorly ported to 
 the PC.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sun_rider95
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 11:47 am PT
Review:  So I bought his game on 4 December 2008, I start playing on 25 , that's right on the first day 
 of Christmas. Why?
  Because MY COMPUTER WAS TOO "SMALL"!. I had a Radeon X1600 256 MB video card, 3.00 Ghz and 1gb RAM. When 
 I was starting the game and after seeing the intro movie, seeing just Niko and others , I had no 
 street, no walls , I couldn't see nothing. I was stunned!
  NOT TO MENTION THAT IT TOOK ME 12 HOURS TO MAKE IT START BECAUSE I WAS GETTING SOME """"""" ERRORS 
 AT THE START! but everything is alright now because I have a Radeon HD 3800 512 mb ,3 gb RAM and 
 3.00 Ghz. At some points is still disappears something but comes back very quick...... or very slow.
 
  So about the new GTA IV I'll say that is the best of the Gta series, but you need a "huge" computer 
 to run it perfectly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ARRAEEee
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2009 12:02 pm PT
Review:  As far as the PC goes, Grand Theft Auto has always been a franchise to show up fashionably late 
 to the party. Often arriving several months to a year after the console launch, PC releases of 
 the series have been a given from the first entries to the franchise, offering some graphical improvements 
 and new features each time. Now, the most recent entry to the series is making its appearance on 
 the PC.
  Unless you've been living under a rock for the past few years, chances are you've heard something 
 about Grand Theft Auto IV. The first entry to franchise to be featured on current-gen consoles, 
 the game released on 360 and PS3 with deafening fanfare back in April and is now arriving on the 
 PC.
  Grand Theft Auto IV on the PC offers the same great single-player campaign as the wildly successful 
 console versions, while offering graphical enhancements and higher resolutions and a host of new 
 features and upgrades to the multiplayer and community elements in the game. You'll now have the 
 ability to import your own music tracks to a custom radio station, as well as record your own videos 
 and edit clips together through the game's new video editor and share them with other players via 
 Rockstar's Social Club community element. While the game has some problems here and there with 
 stability, the core game is a fantastic addition to the series and one that no GTA fan will want 
 to miss.
  The storyline in Grand Theft Auto IV follows Nico Bellic, a Russian immigrant who comes to Liberty 
 City at the behest of his cousin Roman. He quickly becomes enveloped in the world of organized 
 crime, working his way up the ranks within Liberty City, making friends and a whole lot of enemies 
 along the way.
  The game's single-player gameplay has been largely unchanged from the PS3 and Xbox 360 versions 
 of the game . The multiplayer element is also pretty solid, offering up the same great multiplayer 
 mode while upping the player count from 16 to 32 while still performing quite admirably with little 
 lag.
  The PC version's video editor is definitely one of its bigger additions. After creating an account 
 and logging onto Rockstar's Social Club, you'll be able to capture videos of your gameplay in order 
 to export them into the game's video editor utility. Capturing videos of your gameplay is a snap, 
 simply press the F2 after you do something awesome and the last thirty seconds or so of gameplay 
 are recorded and stored into the video editor. After you've gotten some cool footage, you can open 
 your cell phone and enter the video editor.
  From the video editor, you can edit your clips however you see fit, adding in filters, splicing 
 different videos together, adding in music and so on. Once you've edited the clip to your liking, 
 you can then post it onto the Social Club for other members of the community to check out and rate, 
 Youtube-style. This is a great touch for the game, as the open world has always allowed for some 
 crazy stuff to go down, and you'll definitely be able to catch some great videos on the Social 
 Club.
  There are some intrinsic benefits to playing the game on the PC when it comes to controls, namely 
 with aiming and shooting. Using a gun is a lot more intuitive on the PC since you have the keyboard-mouse 
 configuration to work with. For driving, a gamepad usually feels the most comfortable. Fortunately, 
 GTA IV lets you use each control option on the fly, switching between the two without requiring 
 you go through the options menu at all.
  While the game offers some pretty impressive new features that PC gamers and fans of GTA will undoubtedly 
 want to check out, there are some pretty serious technical issues with the game that have been 
 making their rounds in the public and on various tech forums. The game has some pretty severe stability 
 issues, performing poorly on machines that meet or exceed the system requirements and even locking 
 up and shutting down when some features, like the Social Club, are turned on. While Rockstar has 
 stated that they are currently working on a patch for the game that will hopefully address these 
 issues, gamers should be aware that the game does have some pretty serious stability problems as 
 it currently stands.
  Graphically, the game is a noticeable improvement over the console versions, benefiting from super-high 
 resolutions and improved character models. The whole city looks fantastic and filled with details, 
 and that's only with a few of the graphical settings set higher; on future machines, this game 
 will drop jaws. Still, the technical issues are tough to overlook and many gamers, regardless of 
 how top of the line their PCs are, will need to scale down the settings a lot in order to get it 
 to run properly.
  The sound department is largely unchanged from the console versions, which is a good thing, as 
 it sports some excellent voice acting, great sound effects, and a huge and robust soundtrack. One 
 thing that the PC version has over the consoles is "Independent FM", a special radio station that 
 allows you to import your own MP3s to a special folder and listen to them within the game. Like 
 an actual radio station, you can opt for DJ banter or simply listen to your music.
  Grand Theft Auto IV is a solid port of the beloved title, albeit one with some technical issues 
 that will be rectified with a patch soon. Still, if you're a PC-only gamer waiting for the chance 
 to take this plunge into Liberty City, the new features will definitely impress. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bg4ever
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 2, 2009 8:50 am PT
Review:  I am very disapointed from GTA IV -San Andresa grafic and just little new thinks  The main think 
 in gameplay is hiding and looking behind walls .The best think in GTA IV is the big world around 
 you and the very big range of thinks that you can do in it but thats already GTA mark so there 
 is nothing new :+
  At the end GTA IV isnt bad game att all good grafic ,sound but its almost the same as San Andreas 
 as gameplay so i am very disapointed :+ ( .The game is good for resting from hard working day :+) . But 
 GTA IV isn't the best game for PC like GTA IVC for xbox 360 is great REALLY GREAT (like all games 
 for xbox 360 that have clones in PC)
  About hte sistem requrmanets they arent very high for gamers because now almost everybody have 
 at lease good pc and video card as GeForce 8500+
  This review is very critical but we most expect very good game from rockstar the game is good but 
 its not the greates as it must be !!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sheeny71
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 7:45 am PT
Review:  I bought this game even though I was abit put off by the bad press its been having over the bugs 
 and slow frame rates. To many people out there are trying to run this game on crappy sub-standard 
 PC's and getting poor frame rates and graphics!. What these people tend to do is write reviews 
 on GTA IV letting everyone know how brilliant their computer is and what a bad game GTA4 is because 
 it runs at 3fps on their supposed "TOP END" pc!. What a load of b*llsh*t!! I have this game running 
 average frame rates of 35fps (All settings Maxed out) , I have an e6700 processor, 8800gtx graphics 
 card and 2gig of ram, nothing special but deffinately not crap. These people who are slagging the 
 game off need to stop fooling their selves and purchase a half decent PC!, Then come review the 
 game!.
  
  As for the game, it has some of the best graphics I've seen in any game to date. Its maybe not 
 be as in depth as previous GTAutos but thats made up for by solid gameplay, graphics+sound and 
 realism. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1wombat1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 6:18 am PT
Review:  There are some problems with this game which are definately a flaw in the Gta franchise however 
 the installation went smoothly to my surprise and applying the patch was a breeze. 
  
  The story line is very good but again is dulled with very bad graphics even with one of the best 
 graphics cards out on the market. 
  
  There is a flaw in the system however, you must sign ip to rockstars social club to enable on-line 
 live play, which i found slightly difficult to set up and had a few minor glitches, after about 
 the third time of registering it worked.
  
  Installation took 30 minutes on my computer compared to some people quoting that it take more than 
 4 hours to install onto there system.
  
  The patch was offered to be added to Gta iv as i signed into live on the game. The patch went on 
 smoothly and improved the gameplay slightly. (Patch only take 10 minutes max.) 
  
  Overall the game isnt so bad as people are making the game out to be however there is more improvements 
 that RockStar could do to improve gameplay further in possibly a 2nd patch. 
  
  The game was slightly rushed and if it had came out say end of march then most of these problems 
 would have been ironed out.
  
  NOTICE: I HAVE FOUND IT EASIER TO PLAY THE GAME VIA AN XBOX 360 REMOTE USING THE CROSSOVER CABLE 
 BOUGHT FOR 12.99 (PLAY. COM) WHICH ENABLES YOU TO USE THE XBOX CONTROLLER WITH THIS GAME. 
  
  MUCH MORE EASIER 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g3n3r41xan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Well where can I begin.
  I got the game the first day it hit stores and took it home and installed it with all the hassles 
 of installing it and signing up stuff. After that it crashed whenever I ran the game so I went 
 to the forums and figured out it was Social Club that was causing it. After all the troubles were 
 finished and I was playing the game it was awesome.
  Despite the painful start I really like this game. Highly detailed city.
  As with all the passed 
 GTA games this one includes all the car jacking, killing that was in the passed GTA games and even 
 more.
  I have only gone through 40% of the missions because multi-player has kept me busy most of the 
 time.
  As for graphics, the game requires a powerful machine to run at highest settings, and even with 
 that there is some texture problems and some other minor bugs but that still doesn't make the game 
 bad at all
  This game is great and I recommend it to anyone who likes this type of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiderman120988
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 2:27 pm PT
Review:  What is the American Dream? It's a topic that's been explored in-depth by literature, movies and 
 now video games. Grand Theft Auto IV was released on Xbox 360 and PS3 to critical and commercial 
 success in April. Now it has made its way to the PC and the results are just as good, if not better 
 (this is the first time I've played a GTA game) . Unfortunately, the massive system requirements 
 assure that not everyone will be able to play this great game. GTA IV tells the story of Niko Bellic, 
 one of the most fleshed out amoral protagonists of all time. Fresh off the boat from Europe, he 
 meets up with his cousin Roman in hopes of escaping his violent past and make a new life for himself 
 in Liberty City (based upon New York City) . However, Niko realizes that there is no escaping the 
 past and as he gets dragged into the criminal underworld, he will face difficult choices and confront 
 those who have betrayed him and hopefully, find salvation. The story of GTA IV is one of the most 
 well-written stories I have ever seen in a video game and ranks up there with Bioshock and Mass 
 Effect. The game features so many characters each with their own backstory and motivation that 
 its amazing Rockstar gave everyone equal screentime to shine. Gameplay is pretty much similar to 
 any sandbox game; you have limitless freedom and the missions are incredibly varied, ranging from 
 picking up people to shooting hordes of Mafia goons. There are a variety of activities such as 
 dating, bowling, and pool that you can pretty extend the playtime to... well... forever! Considering 
 games these days are only 10 hours long, this is welcome. The graphics look excellent, but Crysis 
 still has the best visuals of any game. Shadows don't look as good though and you'll notice that 
 it's fuzzy around the edges, betraying its console origins. Sadly, to run this game at max, you'll 
 need an incredibly high-end PC. With Intel Core 2 Duo E6750 2.66 GHz, 2 GB RAM, and a GeForce 9600 
 GT, I got an average of 25 frames per second at high textures, high render, and everything else 
 at 50%. Sometimes it would go up to 30-35 and in heavy rain, 10-15. Results may vary since I spent 
 lots of time tweaking my PC so it operates at peak condition. Sound is the best, featuring some 
 quality voice acting and lots of licensed music from the radio stations. Upon release, Rockstar 
 was faced with tons of complaints about technical issues and most of them have been solved now 
 with the new drivers and patch. I was one of the few that faced little to no problems but if you 
 did, then I'm sorry to hear that. The game also uses Games for Windows LIVE and features 32 player 
 multiplayer. It's all right, featuring the standard deathmatch and other modes. I only played one 
 multiplayer session, focusing on the story mode instead. PC exclusives include higher resolution 
 graphics, a customizable radio station that will play your songs, and a video editor. GTA IV also 
 uses DRM but you have unlimited installs so you shouldn't complain. Though installing and RUNNING 
 the Rockstar Games Social Club in the background is a little much. Hopefully this requirement will 
 be removed as I have no use for this anyway. Still, its only a 3 MB install. The entire game takes 
 up 15 GB and comes on 2 DVD's with 2 manuals and a poster. Featuring an amazing story, realistic 
 characters and amazing visuals, GTA IV PC is a must-buy if you missed it on the consoles. Just 
 PLEASE MAKE SURE you can run the game at least acceptably at medium or else you'll end up like 
 everyone else, complaining and blaming everything on the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackout_06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 8:22 am PT
Review:  Great sequel to the previous GTA games-it lives up to its expectations and more. Stepping off in 
 Liberty City in the shoes of illegal immigrant Niko Bellic, the game takes you on one hell of a 
 ride through the streets of the once familiar Liberty City, which now has bikes too, if you know 
 what I mean.
  
  First you are introduced to your cousin Roman Bellic, a happy-go-luck yguy, who is not of much 
 use, but will entertain you quite a lot. As you progress through the game, you'll come across many 
 great characters and a great game engine, which even lets you call change your cell phone ringtone! 
 Though the system requirements are quite demanding, you will get more than you bargained for in 
 this awesome game. It includes a whole new combat system, including cover, combos, disarming and 
 so on. The game has a stunningly detailed environment, which is quite lively. Like its predecessors, 
 it also has great humour-genuinely funny TV and radio will make you laugh a lot. It also has a 
 great story line, great gameplay, and out-of-the-world graphics...... not to mention sound.
  
  The system requirements leave a scar on the face of such a great game, but if your system is 
 upto it, it is a must play. If you are an addicted PC gamer like me, trust me this is a gme you 
 will never want to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-MASTER
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  After I finished this game I felt that I must write something about this awesome game.
  
  As a person how hated ALL the previous instalments in the series, I must say that I am highly impressed.
 
  Everyone who found the previous instalments frustrating and annoying will find the difficult of 
 this installment much more balanced, yet challenging.
  
  The amount and variety of missions and other activities are great, and the amount of dialogues 
 and TV shows are amazing !
  
  The graphics are very good (not excellent due to the lack of AA and the low FPS) , and I liked the 
 weather effects !
  The sound is superb because of the excellent voice acting and soundtrack (including the songs in 
 radio stations) .
  
  The multiplayer is very fun and highly addictive !
  It is probably one of the most genius feature Rockstar has implemented.
  
  The video editor 
 and the ability to records the gameplay are very nice features which add a huge motive to ride 
 the city after finishing the game and of course... increase the replay value !
  
  And now for the part that made so much fans disappointing...
  Yes, I'm talking about the unreasonable 
 and extremely high system requirements.
  I have 4GB RAM, Intel Core 2 Quad and Nvidia Geforce 9600 GT (512 MB VRAM) and I suffered from 
 low FPS at some points through the gameplay (especially when driving in a heavy traffic roads) , 
 but I know that Rockstar will iron those issues so it's temporary and those issues are tolerable 
 anyway...
  
  GTA IV is simply one of the best (if not the best) game I have ever played.
  Like I said above, I am not exactly a GTA fan, but I found this game very enjoyable and I recommend 
 you all to check it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shatter28
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 31, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  First off, I haven't completed the game yet, but feel I should write a review anyway. GTA 4 is 
 an awesome game hidden under layer upon layer of crap.
  
  It's a disgrace that as a paying customer you have to install the "Games for Windows Live" and 
 "Rockstar Social Club" services. If you aren't logged in to the former you WILL NOT BE ABLE TO 
 SAVE!!!!!! On top of that, every single time I start the game it shows a notification popup that 
 I'm not logged in to Rockstar's Social Club. It's rediculous. By forcing people through such crap 
 you're bringing piracy on yourself. You deserve it Rockstar.
  
  Rockstar says they're unable to release a patch now because Microsoft has to give permission first 
 because the game is a "Games for Windows" game. Oh man.
  
  Unfortunately the crap doesn't end there, because the game is brought down further because of a 
 host of technical issues. Personally I haven't had any game stopping issues, but configuration 
 is crap.
  
  GTA IV is extremely graphics card memory hungry. In the graphics options screen everything is dictated 
 by the memory on your graphics card. The options calculate the expected amount of on card memory 
 required as you increase resolution, draw distance and texture resolution, and refuses anything 
 that exceeds your mem. My card has 512MB of memory and initially that meant the game was limiting 
 my resolution to 1700x1100 or something weird like that. Suffice to say that with a draw distance 
 of 1/100 the game looks good still. There is no anti-aliasing, which shows a lot in the game.
 
  
  I also have issues to this moment that options aren't stored. Somehow writing/updating of the configuration 
 is bugged. During the game I also see lots of graphical glitches, with textures right in front 
 of you taking some time to load.
  
  Now finally let me say that what's underneath is great. The game oozes production values. The attention 
 to detail is fantastic. You can call up your pals in the game, go out for a nice (mini) game of 
 pool, return home and turn on the TV to watch something. That's just one example of many things 
 you can do. It all works wonderfully natural. The physics of everthing is fantastic. The way the 
 aforementioned pool game works, cars crashing and rolling over, rag-doll deaths, the way people 
 bend their waist when you gently drive into them with a car etc. etc. The game comes on two DVDs 
 apparently packed with cut scenes. I haven't seen it all yet, and I'm going back to it now. Ciao.
 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ulsd2002
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Well with everything I'd read I was trying to stay away from purchasing GTA IV for the PC. After 
 I saw the first patch was out I thought why not give it a try. I am super impressed. My system:
 
  3.6 ghz Core 2
  4 gig DDR2 4800 Radeon
  360 Controller
  
  I installed the new 8.12 catalyst drivers and patch #1 before playing. I'm not allowed to select 
 above Medium textures but have everything else as high as it will go. Frame rates haven't shown 
 any drops for me even during pretty intense chases. The graphics look really good. Anyway, if you've 
 got a decent rig and a 360 controller give it a whirl.
  
  I did have one crash when I first tried to apply my own MP3 music within the independent radio 
 station. However since then I've had no crashes and only a few graphical glitches when traveling 
 on the highway. Hopefully these little glitches, which are minor, will be resolved with the next 
 patch or drivers. All in all I'm very satisfied. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poke_kylus
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  GTA4 was a great game when it was released on consoles, with so much to do in it, you would not 
 be able to stop =D
  
  Now the pc version is out, and everyone is complaining about this game for some issues, installing 
 and for needing monster PCs...
  
  Ok maybe installing is annoying at some point... but thats only for 1 time... and a little pacients 
 will be quite rewarding. Issues would probably be fixed with patches, so don't complain about that... 
 Rockstar probably know about the issues right now and they will release a patch (mostly all pc 
 games release patches since its very hard to create a game without a single bug)
  
  About performance... they probably wanted to keep the same graphics as the consoles had... and 
 knowing that GTA has loads of effects and city rendering... you probably need a good sli quad core 
 pc to run on high... and on a low resolution and low settings you can play quite good... don't 
 try to be heroes and raising the resolution thinking that you can run it at whatever you want... 
 this is just like when Crysis was released, everyone complaining about hardware. If you want FPS, 
 runing a game on low resolution would give you a great amount of frames even on average PCs.
  
  Past that... and think on what the game offers... great gameplay, incredible physics, car steeling 
 (with cool cars) , shooting with loads of weapons, loads of missions, great cities, runing over 
 people, great story and plot etc...
  
  Only stupid people would rate this game under 5... all you care about is graphics and forgetting 
 how the physics and gameplay is so close to reality... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaDaStar
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  I bought this game from Steam just because I watched my son play it on his PS3, so I know that 
 the game is (or should I say "could be") great fun. My system more than exceeds the recommended 
 specs. [AMD 9950, ATI 4870, 4 GB OCZ] but still, for what the graphics have to offer, the performance 
 is lacking. Considering what can be done with other game engines as far as eye candy is concerned, 
 this title shouldn't tax the system as much as Crysis, FarCry 2, or even CoD WaW.
  
  The performance isn't the only issue I have with this game though. I should be able to use my Logitech 
 wireless Rumblepad, but can't. There are more gamepads out there than the XBox 360 controller. 
 I can't help but think that the motorcycle chase would be easier with a game pad, but I don't want 
 (nor do I care for) the XBox pad.
  
  Other than that the game is . . .errr. . .could be fantastic. If what I described weren't an issue, 
 then I wouldn't have rated it as low as I did. Even if a patch comes that resolved all of this, 
 the game shouldn't have been released to the PC platform in this state. I would have rather waited 
 a few more months for a polished product. The game itself deserves the rating Gamespot gave it. 
 Just not the PC version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpfast
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 30, 2008 5:15 am PT
Review:  Same bad camera behind the car, that usually shows me the side of my car, or even the front (when 
 i do a U turn) , instead of whats ahead of me on the road, making me sometimes even crash. Its horrible.
 
  Dont like my character movements. He either walks very slowly or runs almost out of control. Dont 
 care much for that.
  Dont like the fact that i wasnt able yet to escape the cops on foot by hiding, like in Mafia. Maybe 
 its possible, i just wasnt able yet to do so.
  Its an astoninshigly bad work of programation and optimization for the pc, with bugs everywere 
 and oscilating between 20 and 35 frames on a pc that is able to play just about anything ive tryed 
 on it with usullay all options maxxed, including falloout 3, COD 5 and Grid, all games that look 
 better too.
  And i get these frames by sacrificing view distance, wich means that i cant see s***, and sometimes 
 end bracking with the backs of the stopped cars, specially at night.
  Then theres all that crap they make the players have installed and running on the pc :S. OMG, are 
 they nuts or what.
  Im sticking to this note for now, as i dont think that theyr effort, for this pc version, was very 
 convincing , and for some game design flaws that i dont like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kanarowski
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 30, 2008 4:47 am PT
Review:  GTA 4 for PC is a waste of money, and a POS. It's predecessors (GTA2, Vice City, and San Andreas) 
 were known not only for their brilliance of gameplay, but also the ease of loading and playing 
 on an "averagely" good PC. It takes forever to load, and when it finally does, you're subjected 
 to a frame rate that is akin to trying to drive a car with half of its spark plug wires disconnected 
 and 80% of the air let out of its tires. I'm running a Quadcore 2.4 w/ 4 gig memeory and a GeForce 
 8500, so it's not like I've got some tired old PC.
  Every other new release I have (Crysis, Fallout 3, Call of Duty: World at War, and NFS: UC) runs 
 like a champ.
  Rockstar has taken the best game ever and totally peed in the face of the PC contingent with abysmal 
 frame rates. Hey RS, put out a real patch to fix this female canine or send me back $50. Unplayable, 
 and unforgivable... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akshayasok
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 3:06 am PT
Review:  GTA IV was a game long awaited by gamers and fans everywhere. Especially for PC users, where the 
 game shines the most, it was a long wait. The port is of the game to put it simply is a letdown. 
 But The game is truly out of this world . I would rate it among the greatest game I 've ever played. 
 Once u r in the game u can't stop playing, to discover what awaits under polished hood of liberty 
 city. The city itself is a work of art. The Physics engine has never been so real with u crashing 
 out of the cars windows if u crash it against a tree or something . The Cars are perfect ranging 
 from their handling to their textures. You Have everything from Maybachs (Conchiogne or sumthing) 
 to Ferraris (Turismo) . The Story is brutal as well as exciting and will make u laugh hard and also 
 weep . Niko bellic is easily one of the greatest protagonists Games have ever crated . The game 
 makes u feel for the good guys and hate the bad ones, although that is a matter of perspective. 
 
  
  The Graphics r great , if u can fix the problems by investing some time into them. The sore part 
 about GTA IV graphics is that there is no AF and no AA. So lots of jagged edges, which you ca overlook. 
 The Game does look, by far, better than any of the console versions.
  
  The Voice acting, music and the score is, to say the least, perfect. The story mode of the game 
 would easily take 30 hours to finish. And even after that you would still keep coming back to liberty 
 city . Due to the fact that nothign remains constant the game world keeps on changing just like 
 the real world. So, you never know what u gonna get.
  
  Cheers to R* for making such great games. And looking forward to more and more from you. Keep It 
 Coming
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fumples
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 28, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  Everything about Grand Theft Auto IV is impressive - the voice acting, the presentation, the sounds 
 - Liberty City has never been so alive. Everywhere you go, something is happening; A police officer 
 is arresting someone as they drop their cell phone with their hands in the air, a gang of thugs 
 are talking in a back alley, and other interesting things. The car handling is ultra-realistic 
 compared to the previous games. The cars will slide and tip over a lot more often, depending on 
 the type of car. The voice acting is probably the best I've seen in a game before. It's believable, 
 while being humorous at many points, but not too stupid. Everything about the game is breathtaking, 
 but as great as it all sounds, chances are you're going to have lots of trouble running it if you 
 just meet the requirements.
  
  Starting up this game, I read the requirements and surpass them - I have a dual core Intel 6400 
 2.13GHZ, 3GB of RAM, and an nVidia 8800GTS 320MB custom overclocked video card. It looked like 
 I'd be running this game on medium to high graphics. Boy, was I wrong. Crysis runs better than 
 this game. I've heard it was just because the game was CPU intensive, but I tried benchmarking 
 it and it used more GPU power than it did CPU. I ended up overclocking my card more, but to no 
 avail. So, as a word of advice for anyone who is planning to buy this game - Take the requirements 
 and make sure your system is at least a quarter better than those requirements. Your video card, 
 if anything.
  
  To reiterate, great game, but shame on Rockstar for having a dozen retarded monkeys port the game 
 to PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenwyne
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 30, 2009 1:18 pm PT
Review:  I change my mind. I was willing to let Rockstar at least have a bash at fixing this game. When 
 it runs, it runs well, but getting it going in the first place if the biggest kick in the pants. 
 There's so many errors and glitches, even after 3 patches. it's an appauling thought that game 
 compainies are actually allowed to do this and that people shell out hard earned cash on something 
 so poorly designed and tested. Hopefully, Rockstar will realise that we need them to rethink things 
 a bit here and fix this piece of crap. It wouldn't be so bad if we didn't know that all they did 
 in the first place was port it directly from Xbox 360 without even optimising it first, but they 
 did. I used to be a fan of the GTA series, and to some extent, i still am, but Rockstar has lost 
 all of my respect for them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: georgeww
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 4:17 pm PT
Review:  the game starts off very dark and u find the combat a bit boring but with in 2 hours u fine weapons 
 and lot of amo -- a great way to spend the hard earned cash as this is a very unique stile of game 
 and like nothing else on the market. it is good fun and a huge game very open ended and a great 
 on to have when the mates come round. often u r jsut trying to get a couple of mission under the 
 belt and your friends keep calling, the r demanding but have there benefits. there r may ways to 
 spend time with your hard earn t friends and dancing and eating r a great way entertain them they 
 r more expensive while the games ( darts, pool, bolling) r free ( give or take)
  
  (be warned u really need a higher end machine to run it thought and a stupidly great computer to 
 max it out) )
  
  i hope that u enjoy the game and all it has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: torinraven
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  I waited for this game for some time, and I have to admit that I was growing increasingly worried 
 over the course of the last month as I heard of more and more people who were having problems running 
 this game. I am pleased to report, though, that I am able to run this game well.
  
  All of the greatness that accompanied the console versions is alive and well here. I have spent 
 nearly every waking hour sucked into this incredibly fun game.
  
  The game is not without its glitches, though. I do have some times, especially on hills, where 
 a texture will suddenly be replaced with a low-res version, and the shadows don't always display 
 in the way that I'd like them to, but I can run med-high settings with 30+ FPS and I've never seen 
 it stutter, even with the police swarming me in a rainstorm at night.
  
  It is a shame that the game does have the flaws that it does, because it is truly an excellent 
 game, and a blast to play. The first patch did make some positive improvements, and I hope that 
 forthcoming patches continue to improve things for everyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teron678
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 10:24 pm PT
Review:  First, of all this is the fastest i have ever completed a GTA Franchise .. it's maybe due to it's 
 short storyline & missions being very easy compared to the previous franchises ...
  
  There are many things I like & dislike about this Franchise ...
  
  Likes: More realistic than 
 the previous franchise (movement both on foot & vehicles, scenery etc) , Great Graphics, Sound & 
 Gamplay, a large assortment of radio stations with contemporary music, a large number of buildings 
 are open to explore .. especially the hospitals, the cell phone & internet features, the ability 
 to travel via taxi, installment of contemporary vehicles, Superb/Gigantic bridges, Love the Gun/Combat 
 Control/Movements, there is no time limit missions, autosave feature .. there are many more things 
 to list, .. but this is what i can think of my head at the moment
  
  Dislikes: You need a super computer IMO to play this game at max setting to get good FPS, had to 
 play mine at med-low settings, You can't fly planes & dive as in GTA SA, very short story line 
 as i stated (BIGGEST DISAPPOINTMENT OF THE GAME) , can't save vehicles in safehouses, many more 
 things to list ...
  
  All in all a great game ... great installment to the GTA Franchise, Everything you'd expect from 
 GTA & more .... But still think GTA SA tops it, not in Gameplay, Graphics, Sound but in Storyline 
 .. GTA SA had a great storyline + it was long ...
  
  Recommended to all you love Action Adventure & Free Roaming Games .... no one tops GTA in these 
 category ... maybe I'll change my mind after i play Saints Row 2 ... LMAO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhofever
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  Of course the PC gaming community is outraged by how badly done the GTA IV PC port was, the bugs, 
 the missing textures, the performance issues. But let's just take that away. If you are one of 
 those few who had no issues running the game, then you will agree with what I am saying.
  
  I have never ever been so immersed in a game before, not even in San Andreas. The first time I 
 played Grand Theft Auto IV, i spent hours playing the game, simply amazed, not only by the visuals, 
 but every single detail put into it that makes it so . . . so real.
  
  If you think this game wasn't that good, then you must be hard to impress. Grand Theft Auto IV 
 may not feature a lot of content like in San Andreas such as Airplanes, getting tattoes, getting 
 haircuts, but you do get to buy some clothes and pretty funny moments.
  
  I actually found it amusing to be knocked over by cars on the highway. Killing your character has 
 never been this fun.
  
  If that isn't enough, the multi-player is just as intense as the single-player. There are a variety 
 of different game modes, Cops n' Crooks being my favourite. You can either gang up with your friends 
 or gang on them. VoiP is also available if you have a headset which makes communication much more 
 easier. Typing out tends to kill you. Yeah, don't talk when you drive :P. I sure learned that lesson.
 
  
  At the end of the day , I think the bugs and problems are due to the lack of software needed to 
 run the game, which many people may not be aware of. And if you're having second thoughts of buying 
 GTA 4 because of SecuROM, you need not worry. There are no install limits and so far it has done 
 no harm for me.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 136685ali
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  I HAVE 4 GB OF RAM CPU E8400 GE-FORCE 9600GT 512 DDR3
  THE GAME RUNS SMOOTHLY ALSO THERE IS SOME PROBLEMS BUT THEY DONT EVEN WORSE MENTIONING
  Average 
 FPS: 45.06
  Graphics Settings
  Video Mode: 1024 x 768 (85 Hz)
  Texture Quality: Medium
  Render Quality: Very High
  View Distance: 56
  Detail Distance: 60
  THE GAME IS A REALY GOOD. gameplay 
 is good. charecters are execllent .story is amazing. and you play GTA not crysis graphic is not important
 
  33 333 33 3 333 333333 3333333 333333 333333 3333 3333333333
  333333 333333 333333 3
  3333 33333 3333333 33333 33333]
  333333 3 33 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 33 3 3 3 3 33 333 33 3 
 3 3 3 333
  33 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 33 3 3 33 3 3 3 33 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 
 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kokobil
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 25, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  For the first time in my life i feel so mocked of a game. I am thinking to sue Rockstar for this 
 travesty. This game tortures the legal owner right from the start. It has you to sign up in various 
 useless on line services that are also bugged as hell and even if you do that the game will refuse 
 to save unless you make some extra update of windows live that never completes. I left it all night 
 long but nothing (in a 24Mbits line- i download games from Steam quite often so...) In the end 
 after losing my afternoon with just trying to install this game i gave up. The game is back to 
 it's box - i wish i hadn't lost the receipt so now i can't get it back to the shop.
  
  I understand that Rockstar did all that to prohibit users from coping it but i don't feel i deserved 
 this torture. My only blame is that i bought it legaly. If i could get back in time i would get 
 the pirate copy that has no need to eat all this crap. In fact i plan to aquire a pirate copy in 
 the future so that i can actually play the game. 
  
  Lesson learnt Rockstar. From now and on i will aquire only pirated versions of any future Rockstar 
 game. I only wish i meet some of the guys who made this crap so i can smash his head in the wall. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarantyno
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Finally, I had the change to get the Pc version of this phenomena called Grand Theft Auto IV. I 
 did not had high expectations because people are bashing the PC port.
  But wow, I was glad i was pleasently surprised. Maybe im just not too picky, but the game running 
 :800x600 minimal view distance, traffic 25, shadow density off and all other settings high.
  I got an AMD Phenom 2,3 TripleCore, 3 Giga DDR2 and 8500gt.
  
  The game has its flaws and technical 
 issues, but come on, tell me San Andreas was without buggs?? No way.
  
  The story and gameplay are incredible, its like living through a huge Sopranos episode or something 
 symilar.
  People say driving a car is like driving a boat. Totally untrue, i noticed the stability of the 
 vehicles is 99 percent the same as in San Andreas.
  Some say GTA 4 lacks freedom, because in SA you could do all kind of crazy stuff.. What did you 
 really want more? To hijack spaceships and paint your nails on different collours?? come on.. This 
 game gives the player the vibe of a real big city enviorment, its so immersive thanks to the sum 
 of its details.
  
  Developers stated that this is a reboot of the series, but I was smiling when I heard Lazlo on the 
 radio or seen images from San Andreas on the tv... meaning its all still in the same universe :-)
 
  The soundtrack is perfect ,as allways, and the satirical modern day culture references make this 
 game one true masterpice that will hold its place in gaming history for ever.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: G60-FORCE
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 4:00 am PT
Review:  like I said above with that setting I'm able to have the experience of a lifetime, and I'm now 
 playing the game over for the second time.. to get the alternative ending... But did I mention 
 the friggin' time I spend getting my setting just right... mygod have installed all 179. x to 181. x 
 drivers and finally decided the stick with the modded 181 and still the occasional crashes, but 
 atleast the frequency of that happening is 1a2hrs
  
  Enough BS about the specs and stuff...
  The game itself is wonderfull.... story is awesome... 
 whohooo
  The helicopter view with my latest setting are breathtaking..
  No 360 or PS3 could even get close, I can only imagine how it will play in the near future when 
 optimized at 1920x1200 HIGH...
  Just thinking of it makes me happy, eventhough I had my shares of frustrations and read allmost 
 every topic on the web!
  
  But It's a shame that rockstar let so many ppl down : (
  I still hope that future patch & mod's make this even better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BehzatPinar
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 25, 2008 2:42 am PT
Review:  i have it on Console but really wondered the difference so much that's why i checked it in my friends 
 PC.
  
  All i can say about this game on PC is : Tooo Bad and Tooo Weak
  
  i am glad i am playing it on PS3. Pc version sux. soo slow also i didn't like the graphics on Pc. installation 
 is waste of time sign up etc. Also many pc owners can not play this game easily because of system 
 even my friend has a good system he's still having difficulties. My point is 1 because they could 
 do the better but they didn't....
  
  On Ps3 this game is unbeliveable it rocks. But i still can't understand why they decided to stop 
 buying a property. it was a beautiful part of the game and i couldn't find to buy property in this 
 game and i am dissapointed about that. Also hiring bodyguards was so good too but we can't do it 
 anymore in this game too. These are the bad points of the game..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostpanther
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 24, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV has already shown its prowess on the consoles and we KNOW it is a great gam so my issue 
 is with this port to the PC: The game itself IS stellar but you cannot give this port to the PC 
 high marks when it displays such instability.
  
  This smacks of some unfinished business within the halls of Rockstar.
  
  GTA IV has all sorts 
 of bells and whistles when it run smoothly on a PC but that is the very root of my beef.
  
  Think back to Battlecruiser 3000AD which promised many things but after its controversial release, 
 the game was plagued with bugs that simply did not let you experience all that was promised.
  
  Some pointed to the work and effort put into Battlecruiser 3K BUT that means nothing if you 
 can't get the game to work right. 
  
  It's really irresponsible for the PC version of GTA IV to get an Editor's Choice label when performance 
 is questionable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D-Dubz
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, what's up guys? I'm not going to explain everything wrong with GTA4 (and there are many 
 things) as I already wrote a review about that. This, in addition to adding absolutely nothing, 
 finds a way to make the game more horrendous by dulling down the already dull graphics, making 
 it impossible to control via keyboard, and making it run as poorly as possible on a standard PC. 
 My friend's gaming PC even had this run at about 2 frames per second, and considering the shallowness 
 of this game, I don't see why it takes a mega PC to run. Oh, and the multiplayer? Good luck getting 
 that to work. This is simply a disaster. They could have amended themselves with a decent PC port, 
 but this sends my expectations spiraling even further downwards.
  
  And that Gamespot has the gall to give it a 9/10. 9/10. That's the same thing that they gave Call 
 of Duty 4. I challenge you to find anyone who would claim that this lousy port is better than Call 
 of Duty 4.
  
  Pass up on this one. Shame on you Rockstar.
  
  Graphics - 1/10, lower than PS2 quality.
  Control - 2/10, abysmal implementation of keyboard 
 and mouse controls.
  Fun - 2/10, I suppose it's fun if you have a 15 thousand dollar PC and really, really, really like 
 sandbox games.
  Story - 6/10, decent.
  Replayability - 1/10, I would give it higher if there was playability in the first place.
  
 
  TOTAL - 1.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yaranhameleh
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  I read a lot of reviews about this game. Mostly the negative and some positive.
  Now, I understand that people got angry that it doesn't run good, even when it runs it stops and 
 such, I totaly understand this and you know what, they are absolutely right!
  
  But I as one, played it on high settings, my video card has 1gb of memory so I can put more "points" 
 or however you call this. It runs smoothly, it doesn't stop even when it's raining or when you 
 get to a place with heavy population.
  
  As one who played it on high and very high, it was perfect. The gameplay is just awesome, the graphics 
 are awesome. The city is actually alive!
  This game might have the best story line I have ever seen.
  You will get connencted to the characters 
 as the game goes on. 
  If you have a computer capable of taking this game on high, you are going to get one of the best 
 games you have ever played.
  
  Althought the requirements for this game are high and most people can't run GTA 4 on their PC the 
 game IS great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TUnified
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  I was very hesitant on picking up GTA4 after hearing about all problems with it, just about everyone 
 had at least some random crashing and texture glitches, and a lot of people couldn't even get the 
 game installed.
  
  But I decided to pick it up anyways, I figured it would be worth it because I had been waiting 
 for this game for a long time.
  
  Before I even bought it, I made completely sure that my PC was up to snuff; Got the new ATI drivers 
 (and installed them CORRECTLY) , updated .NET to 3.5 SP1, XP SP3, and all the Rockstar Social Club 
 and Live ID crap. Defragged my hard drive a couple times, and made sure there was plenty of space.
 
  
  My Specs:
  Gigabyte GA-EP35-DS3R
  Core 2 Quad @ 2.8
  ATI Radeon 4850 512
  4GB G. Skill DDR2
  XP Media Center SP3
  
  The install took about 45 minutes (installing and 
 then installing updates for the game and the Rockstar Social Club) . Then I was able to play. No 
 issues with Securom, and I KNOW I should have issues with it because of "questionable" software 
 that I have, but no problems anyways. It started right up and I was in the game.
  
  Right away though I had an issues with stuck keys, I was constantly spinning up and was unplayable. 
 But I exited the game and unplugged my Playstation controller, and it worked fine after that.
 
  
  The biggest problem that I have with the game currently, is texture glitches, they are constantly 
 reloading or "blanking" out (Polygons, but no textures for a few seconds) , it's not a really big 
 deal, still playable.
  
  The only other issue that I have are random crashes. And they aren't constant, maybe once every 
 few hours or so. Sometimes it's as little as 30 minutes, or as long as 3 hours (which is only as 
 long as I have played in a row) . It hasn't crashed during a mission (yet) , so it's no showstopper.
 
  
  These are all problems I am willing to live with because this IS the best game of this year! The 
 video editor is by far it's greatest feature. Hit F2 during gameplay and the game will record up 
 to 30 seconds of the last play time, then you can load up the video editor and setup camera angles 
 and music and create your own videos for upload.
  
  Finally, no more telling friends about these amazing stunts that have happened with no proof! A 
 lot of GTA's character is it's unpredictable chaos, and a lot of wacky things will NEVER happen 
 again, so it's incredibly awesome that you can go back and save that footage, and it's even more 
 awesome to go back and add a cinematic angle to your footage along with music. I can see a lot 
 of Machinima possible, and there is already a flood of creative footage on the internet.
  
  The story is great, and I think Niko Bellic is the best GTA character ever. There are always missions 
 to do, and plenty of characters to meet. The music is awesome, lots of licensed music and radio 
 stations (with really funny ads and talk radio) , and the graphics and day/night cycles are awesome 
 to look at (when there is no texture glitching) .
  
  It's a shame that it feels like Rockstar was forced to released it in it's bugged state in time 
 for the Holidays, but hopefully these bugs will be ironed out in the near future. Long live GTA!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingxofxcashvil
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  First of all i dont have an ALMIGHTY rig like a quad core or a 280 XT, i have a dual core 3.0 ghz, 
 2 gig of ram and a 512 mb nvidia geforce 8600 GT. Not quite impressive but it still manages to 
 run the game at 20-25 fps on medium settings. I never played this game on a console so this was 
 my first experiance with GTA IV, the installation was quite long, and it installed things i dont 
 even know of, C++ runtime, flash, social club, Games for windows live etc. Even though there are 
 a few times when the fps would drop down to 10-13 and textures would at a few times disappear (and 
 reappear) the game itself is great to play.. fun and addicting just like every other GTA game. 
 The reason why i gave this game a 9 is because all in all its a great game and after the first 
 few minutes of tweaking the settings the game did not give me any problems at all.
  
  So my recommandation is that if you are a GTA PC fan who just wants to play and have fun then do 
 get the game, but if ure an "extreme" gamer who wants full hardcore performance for this particular 
 game "stay far far away". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Laurenceh
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 24, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  It was possibly the wrest game in history for me. The screen wobbled like crazy so you couldn't 
 see what you were doing. It was overcomplicated and the games control changer still things it is 
 in an Xbox 360. I would rather get one of the older versions what you can see in. you need to make 
 an account to just save. If you can see past the massif capra wobble and massif hassle of installing 
 it, and I can't you find what look's like the same as the old games. I plaid it for 1 min and stop 
 because the wobble was really annoying, and the time it took to install, and the difficulty to 
 save.
  lllllllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllllllll 
 llllllllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllllll 
 lllllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllllll 
 lllllllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllllll llllllllllllllllllllll 
 llllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllllll 
 lllllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllllll lllllllllllllllllllllll 
 lllllllllllllllll llllllllllll 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjbj11
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 23, 2008 5:31 pm PT
Review:  8800 gts 320mb
  amd 6000+ x2
  2gb 667mhz ram
  
  So i get gta4 install it all good, gotta sign up to windows live and rockstar scoial club to play... 
 ok annoying but what the hell, its gta4, its gonna be awesome. The first thing i will say about 
 this game is the performace is absolutely shockingly bad. i have never seen anything like this, 
 the resident evil port was better done (maybe) , i have not played the xbox 360 version but the 
 results i got on my pc were nothing to compare with it. 
  I like to think that i have at least an average/decent pc for gaming, cod4, tomb raider underworld, 
 farcry 2 i could all play on pretty much max settings (except farcry, bit lower) at a playable 
 fps at least. gta4 on the other hand i was forced to use something stupid like 960 x 800 just to 
 get it to run, as you can imagine it looks very poor at this resolution, but on top of this i was 
 getting frames of about 10 - 15 per sec. 
  I played for about 10 mins then promptly uninstalled the 13gb and both windows live and rockstar 
 social club. 
  
  my advice is this, buy the console version (although i have not played these) . if you still want 
 to buy the pc version, good luck with that, but make sure that you have some sort of supercomputer, 
 this pathetic attempt at a port is gonna take some serious hardware to run at an enjoyable sort 
 of level. i might recommend this in a few years time when its about a tener, technology is cheaper 
 and the games bugs and performance issues have been treated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: numskll
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 23, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  I've got a contemporary gaming PC that meets or exceeds the minimum requirements of the game. Fine. 
 I expect to be able to run it on low settings, which I can. But on low settings the game is unplayable 
 due to stuttering issues and other "lag" events. Further on low settings the game is really ugly. 
 Unacceptably ugly by my standards. The cars are fairly good but the people and the buildings and 
 objects in the world are all dull, muddy and blurry looking. The whole world looks like your looking 
 through frosted glass. Ugly and slow makes this game not worth playing. Avoid it unless you've 
 got a machine that exceeds the recommended requirements. On the bright side, by the time most people 
 upgrade their machines enough to play this hog with reasonable performance it will be in the bargain 
 bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: digital011x
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  i dont know but when i playing game the game will slow... i m playing with laptop and a just time 
 my pc will very hot i think because of this game do slowly. i play a lot of game which do my graphick 
 card very hot but no game do like this... i think this is a error 
 
   ... ....... ........ ..... ...... ....... ..... ....... 
 ........ ........ .
  . ............. ..... . . . . ... ....... ........ ..... ...... ....... ..... ....... ........ 
 ........ .
  . ............. ..... . . . . ... ....... ........ ..... ...... ....... ..... ....... ........ 
 ........ .
  . ............. ..... . . . .... ....... ........ ..... ...... ....... ..... ....... ........ ........ 
 .
  . ............. ..... . . . .... ....... ........ ..... ...... ....... ..... ....... ........ ........ 
 .
  . ............. ..... . . . .... ....... ........ ..... ...... ....... ..... ....... ........ ........ 
 .
  . ............. ..... . . . .... ....... ........ ..... ...... ....... ..... ....... ........ ........ 
 .
  . ............. ..... . . . .... ....... ........ ..... ...... ....... ..... ....... ........ ........ 
 .
  . ............. ..... . . . .... ....... ........ ..... ...... ....... ..... ....... ........ ........ 
 .
  . ............. ..... . . . .... ....... ........ ..... ...... ....... ..... ....... ........ ........ 
 .
  . ............. ..... . . . .... ....... ........ ..... ...... ....... ..... ....... ........ ........ 
 .
  . ............. ..... . . . .... ....... ........ ..... ...... ....... ..... ....... ........ ........ 
 .
  . ............. ..... . . . .... ....... ........ ..... ...... ....... ..... ....... ........ ........ 
 .
  . ............. ..... . . . .v 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FosieC
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 22, 2008 11:49 pm PT
Review:  My PC runs Crysis on max settings on 1680x1050 with about 40-60 fps. GTA4 runs on 18-22 fps - it 
 needs fixing fast!
  It has such great fun attached to the whole experience and that you have so much options of what 
 to do, but the whole thing goes down the drain if it doesn't run smoothly on a machine that is 
 suppose to handle it perfectly.
  
  Also one other thing that gives me cramps is the auto camera while driving. In mu opinion it should 
 stay directly behind the vehicle like any racing game would have it when driving with the camera 
 following the vehicle. Then still have the freedom of moving it around with the mouse to look around 
 when the player would want to, and then lock back behind the vehicle after about 3 seconds of mouse 
 idle. (Maybe for those who actually like the camera as it is, have the option for this way of camera 
 control)
  
  I also find the vehicles doesn't give me the feel of traction... It slides too easy. It feels like 
 I'm driving with jelly wheels, and doing handbrake turns all the sudden I'm on ice or something. 
 It doesn't feel like there is much grip where there should be.
  
  All in all so far the single player is good, the multi-player is a lot of fun. The bugs and the 
 things I've mentioned needs to be done. Then the game would the best in it's series I would say.
 
  
  PS: Sorry for firstly posting this under the XBOX section. : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eviledger
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 8:52 pm PT
Review:  What a dissappointing game. Where to start, nowadays like all franchises it's lacks something from 
 the past same as Fallout3 and RA3. Graphics sucks, really. I know i'm playing on my laptop, but 
 even crysis is running on medium to high settings in 1440x900. Graphic options are for seeing that 
 you nothing can change, shadows for instanse 100 or 1 makes no diferense, just for making shure 
 you've done everything to get max fps setting for shadows is stuck at1. with my 9700m gts 512mb 
 i can't say it is perfect, but just for seeing the game it's enough, allthou bugs and glitches 
 makes you nervous.
  THE PHONE in the begining - cool, but later f***ing anoying, and when the cousin calls you 5 times 
 a day when girl you date contacts you once in 2-3 days.
  The video... i know it tells the story and so on, but when video takes longer than mission itself, 
 and if you fail mission... f**k it's annoying.
  Great thing that after arest you don't lose your weapons.
  And if Rockstar will patch it a lot 
 we will have a great game indeed, despite those two stupid addins (social cub and windows live) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRealUku
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  short but sweet , great game on 360 , ported across with alot of bugs , graphics are stunning if 
 you have a beast of a machine , make no mistake , you need a 4870x2 with 2 the 2 gig ram avialable 
 and core2duo and 64 bit vista to get the best out of it , most settings unavialable otherwise , 
 also be prepared for numerous crashes , troubles with online play and incompatibly issues galore 
 , i finally got it running properly online after removing my aftermarket firewall and having to 
 aquire a no-cd crack due to copy protect telling me i hadnt got the original dvd in the drive!!. 
 if ya got a 360 stick to it on that , if not , wait for the next big patch , 1.1 wasnt a complete 
 success , sorted a few issues but still alot to do. on a bonus point it does have 32 players online 
 for pc , but this probably means no cross platform online play which alot would of prefered 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pistolao
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Another GTA series, action game in a opened scenario that you can freely buy, steal, kill, date, 
 hijack and other things with your main character in or out of solid missions. Well first, let's 
 clear some rumors that is around this game ok. Does the game have low FPS because is poorly written? 
 No it is does not, the textures resolution and the amount of polygons are very poor yes, but it 
 is a heavy game no on the graphical part, but on the physics part, SO YOU WILL NEED A GOOD CPU 
 to play it, if you have it, than you will play it smoothly And the first release to pc was in 
 fact buggy, but the patch that came along fix it most of the problems.
  Now let's get back to the game the missions are great, you will enjoy the all of them, the history 
 and the ambient are very funny, it will give you some good jokes, the visual graphic is good, not 
 as great as most of 2008 end games, but it is good, the sound and physics however are great, good 
 work there rockstar, lots of musics for all kind of tastes, good AI, and the fighting are really 
 good, best shooting in the GTA series, but the car chasing are not that good, same old crap, but 
 it has some nice car crashing and explosions with the new physics, very good indeed
  And finally, let's get to the part that I can tell that what in my personal opinion made this game 
 an almost 9, but really just an 8 To simplify, the game is much much simpler than the previous 
 GTA and the worst thing is that to be a grade 9 or 10, the items are already there, inside the 
 game, but you cannot use it with your main character
  1st  You have like tons of clothing, but your character can only choose from 3 brands, from the 
 100+ that are in the game, and everyone else is using, but you.
  2nd  You have the on-line pc and cel phone in the game, and lots and lots of adds of all kind 
 of stuff that you cannot use, genetic modifications, the other 97+ brands of clothing, car modifications, 
 body improvements, different kinds of martial arts are there, in your in-game online pc sites, 
 highway adds, some of them with the phone number that if you call, guess what is it occupied, 
 SO YOU CAN'T USE IT
  3rd  Only flyable vehicle that you have in the game are 2 kinds of choppers, no airplane, civil 
 or military.
  4th  You have a lot less bonus missions than the previous GTA , and guess what, they DON'T give 
 you any in-game augments for your character All you got is, oh yeah I spend 10 hours of my game 
 searching for birds so I can say I DID KILL 200 OF THEM yeah!!!
  
  Basically it is like you have left your beautiful girlfriend for her ugly sister with better makeup, 
 it is a San Andreas with only main missions + better graphics. Seriously, dear rockstar does it 
 would killed someone if you put a small buy button on the sites of clothes, furnitures and etc 
 so you would buy on-line and appear on your safe house, you wouldn't even need to build more stores 
 on the streets. It would be painful to add a bonus like +20% hp, or Kevlar, or running speed to 
 cops, ambulance, fireman missions. Does it would killed someone if after we delivery the 10 cars 
 to the garage that place could customize the cars with new car bodies rims and etc, THAT ARE ALREADY 
 IN THE GAME
  I mean everything that made the last GTA so funny, is striped from this one for that it worth 
 a 8 for the good history and ak47 shooting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suicide2005
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  GTA 4 for the PC strides to not only look as good but to also be better then its Console versions. 
 
  
  Rockstar Toronto takes the version that Rockstar North made and pretty much takes all of the graphical 
 pops and glitches and tries to clean them up as much as possible. 
  
  The online is slightly improved, more people can play in matches, which makes it a much faster 
 and much more fun paced experience then the Console versions.
  
  Graphically the game looks as good as the console versions and a little better in some spots but 
 while they tried to fix the glitches from the console versions, they made a whole new set of graphical 
 glitches, which might prove problematic to people with computers that aren't strong enough to play 
 the game at full speed. There are also some moments where even the strongest PC will have problems.
 
  
  There are also a few sound issues with this game, which also existed on the GTA 3, Vice City, and 
 San Andreas PC versions but its really not that big of a deal and doesn't harm the storyline in 
 anyway. 
  
  The biggest complaint i have against this game is the PC requirements. There should be no reason 
 why this games requirements should be any higher then World of Warcraft, but this game has requirements 
 that not everyone has and it ends up being the biggest problem that this game has. 
  
  The gameplays frame-rate, when on a PC that can fit the game, is very smooth, runs a little smoother 
 then the console versions but it is too small of difference to tell. Cut-scenes run very smooth 
 as well.
  
  Overall, a good version that just requires too much to actually play. If you haven't played GTA 
 4 and you have a 360 or PS3, go for one of those versions, because the PC version just requires 
 too much for one game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerchao999
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 12:01 am PT
Review:  When this came out for the Xbox 360 and the ps3, it was a great game, and now, on the pc, it still 
 is. The only thing stopping this game from being as great as the 360 version, is that it has some 
 performance problems. I have a very good computer so these problems weren't as big for me, but 
 when I tried it on a less good computer, I noticed a fair amount of graphics problems. The problems 
 rarely got in the way of the gameplay and I was enjoying it every step of the way. The controls 
 are slightly better for some things on the PC, as the PS3 controller is terrible for shooting in 
 this game, unless you use lock-on. As a closing note, if you own an xbox 360, buy GTA for it. If 
 you don't, buy the PC version, either way, GTA 4 is a must play. Don't let your fears of the technical 
 difficulties get in the way of buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryans273
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 21, 2008 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong on this game it is a great game it is amazing it is just the programming it is 
 well bad... i have not got a great pc but...... i might know alot about pcs either but i do have 
 2 8600 gts in my pc and i have to switch 1 of them of to play this game i mean sli is the part 
 of the future now it has been about for ages for now you can actually get 3 graphics cards together 
 now i mean i thought 2 was the dogs bollocks the only reason i got 2 graphic cards was to play 
 this game cause i was like "i canr wait to play this game and i thought just 1 8600 gt wouldnt 
 handle it" i was partly right so i bought another 8600 gt dont get me wrong some games support 
 the sli but alot the games dont : ( any way back to the game great game great story not so great 
 if you want to use any controller other than the xbox 360 controller i have a logitech chillstream 
 but the pc just picks it up as a xbox 360 controller. i mean it looks good ish on the one 8600 
 gt but defintly not as good as it should look like very very : ( this was proberly more than a rant 
 than a review soz. btw iam ot just bashing it cause i cant run it i mean i relize games are going 
 to get better threw the years but come on iam running not even as close as the xbox 360 version. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilerys
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  Like I said, this game is amazing... There is so many things to do, discover and visit, that you 
 will find yourself playing this game for much longer than pretty much any other games on the market.
 
  
  As for performance, this baby is working 100% smooth and flawless (no bugs at all like described 
 by other users) on my machine, and my machine is less powerful than people with quad cores and 
 sick video cards complaining..
  
  Here is my rig specifications:
  
  Intel Core 2 Duo E8400 3.0ghz (Overclocked to 3.4ghz)
  4GB Kingston valueRAM memory
  eVGA GeForce 
 9600GT 512MB superclocked edition
  Asus P5E Motherboard
  OCZ GameXstream 600W power supply
  
  The game works smoothly and flawlessly on HIGH texture 
 quality and HIGHEST render quality. 
  
  What you should do before playing this game, is patching it to the official patch first, then update 
 your drivers to the forceware 180 by nVidia and update your drivers to the latest release if you 
 are an ATi user. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donkieman
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 21, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  I took some time to read some reviews well before buying the game, never before have I hesitated 
 as much buying a game then GTA IV.
  
  Based on many player reviews and forum rants, it sounded like it is total garbage.
  
  I decided 
 to ignore the warnings/omens and complaints. Went to my local game shop and bought it. I got home 
 and started the rather huge install.
  
  Once it was installed, I installed the social club and got warning that my windows live was outdated. 
 Loading the game automatically updated windows live and I was set to play.
  
  In all honesty, having to go through this process just because some people can't buy originals, 
 hope they all get stomach infections.
  
  Now I have a fairly powerful system, It eats Crysis 1+2, Far Cry 2, Bioshock and COD5 for breakfast.
 
  
  Loading up the game made me realize I am running better at medium settings. A little Oh-Oh for 
 me, don't like BUT medium looks fine. Just think this game should have run at max like other newer 
 games.
  
  At medium I am getting extremely decent FPS. High starts to get a little choppy and I don't like 
 any choppiness. 
  
  I noted some issues, weird texture rendering and joystick causing spinning but they are not ruining 
 the game so to speak.
  
  Other then that I had no trouble starting the game, no crashes or blue-screens. I assume any system 
 that just smells/look old will give these problems. 
  
  I won't be surprised if some of the reviewers on here giving the game a 1 runs a 386 (nineteen 
 donkey machines) or pentium 1's.
  
  Game content, well let me just tell you. There is plenty to do. I am still looking to buy safe-houses. 
 Only thing I am missing.
  
  Cars: They do handle way to bumpy, look great and the damaging model is excellent.
  
  This 
 game is well worth it in the sense of partially looks, despite some texture issues. Perfect with 
 respect to content.
  
  As for Gamespot's rating, you can't give games running perfectly on PC's with spectacular graphics 
 a 9 and then a game that are still having some running issues a 9 too.
  
  Sadly this makes me doubt the Gamespot ratings unless they have a source to 2020 PC sytems!
  
 
  Not a 9 in my opinion due to it unable to perform at high on even decent machines, but surely not 
 a failure either.
  
  If you have a new age machine, buy it and enjoy the semi-good looks and spectacular content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Again, I have to question gamespots reviewers on how they base there score because clearly they 
 haven't really given much thought into the PC version at all?! The PC version in its current state 
 is really pitiful with gamebreaking bugs and stupidly high system requirements, when Rockstar quoted 
 that the PC version is tailor made for 'future systems' it made me wonder, even with a $10k gaming 
 machine right now it still performs poorly and clearly shows its Xbox360 roots all too well, even 
 in the controller menu it shows... a 360 controller, personally I get the idea this port was rushed 
 in time for the black friday rush and then left to be patched at a later date which is fine if 
 the product is at least good enough for release, and I don't think this really is.
  
  Overall, i'm really disappointed with this version being a fan of every single GTA since the original, 
 lets hope with the next version they get things right and release something awesome again, i'm 
 not 'techically' saying GTAIV is terrible but its very hard to forgive the PC version in its current 
 state, its crying for major patches to improve performance even on current mid to upper range gaming 
 rigs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_cam_ron
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  AM2 6000+ Dual Core, Geforce 8400GS, XP SP3 running on 4gig Ram XP display only 3gb due to 32bit 
 operation, though i barely pass the minimum requirements the game could run better, maxed out i 
 get around 15fps, i think its a serious system hag but none the less i love it, big fan, juss gotta 
 wait until i can drop in a quad core :-) , lovely world environment, you do basically whatever ur 
 mind tell u would be possible in real world, thats wat makes GTA Great, what i use to have to wait 
 for a mod for in the previous version is now perfected, the taxi service that is, its awesome, 
 the versatility of being able to just whistle one over, you can sit and enjoy the ride and the 
 driver doesn't get stuck in traffic or light posts :-) , the character animation is so real, from 
 getting hit by a car to walking up a hill, niko moves depending on the pavement or terrain, flat 
 or slope, i think rockstar did an awesome job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abr_alex
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Well, where to start? I was waiting this game since 2006 with a slim hope that R* will make something 
 really revolutionary. My hopes were boosted when R* revealed that they took much more realistic 
 approach. First trailers were quite impressive - huge, detailed city, great narrative and serious, 
 adult themes. Then console version came out and it was unbelievable success. Most reviewers praised 
 great story, refined gameplay and most believable city in videogame history. Granted, I was eagerly 
 awaiting PC version. 
  The game came out mid December in my country and I've heard a lot of negative opinions on the game 
 before playing. So weeks before release I've bought new PC (~1000 euro) - Intel E8500 3.16Ghz, 
 Zotac GTX 260 AMP2!, 4 Gigs RAM, 2*1Tb HDD, Windows XP SP3) . In our country XBOX360 is only 2 times 
 cheaper, so that was a great deal (PC games are 4-5 times cheaper) .
  Immediately I've discovered that game indeed is system hog, but CPU is much more important for 
 performance than GPU. Don't even think to launch this game with a single core. Also a Quad was 
 way more preferable than dual core. So the tweaking began. When I first time launched they game, 
 I was shocked how pitiful was the graphics (resolution 1920*1200) . Something was not right. And 
 I found it - textures were set on medium. To set them on high you need at least 700Mb video memory 
 and thats highly recommended. Luckily I had 896Mb. So I changed textures to high AND restarted 
 the game for changes to take effect. And a miracle happened - the game looked incredible, especially 
 at night (ingame) , WAY better than console versions or published 'PC screenshots'. Also I've set 
 image quality to very high - it didn't affect performance at all but everything looked way crispier. 
 Traffic density affected performance a bit, but cmon, we want to play in city full of cars, not 
 empty one like in console version. So I've set it to 100, details was also set to 100. Then I've 
 tested different shadow levels and was surprised how little it affected look of the game. In fact 
 most of the shadows were on even with shadow level 0 but performance boost was incredible. So unless 
 you have Core i7@4Ghz you better disable shadow. Final and the most influential parameter was view 
 distance. It affected performance incredibly, also even with 1Gb video memory you can't set distance 
 even to 50 if you use high textures (well, actually you can using -norestrictions, but the game 
 will lag) . So I found that in motion even 15-20 is enough and performance is way better than when 
 setting it to, say 40. So finally settings were
  Textures High
  Image quality Very High
  View distance 18
  Details 100
  Traffic density 100
  Shadows 0
  The game ran great - benchmark 
 showed 43 FPS, ingame even in most CPU-heavy places FPS was not lower than 30. In some places FPS 
 was 60 and it was super-smooth. At night the game looked absolutely incredible (well, at day it 
 was great, too) . So technically PC version has great potential and will get better in time - it 
 will definitely be the ultimate vision in time. 
  Now lets talk about gameplay. This game is NOT San Andreas. That means there no 100 types of missions, 
 300 types of vehicles, rural regions and so on. BUT R* don't need to make all this stuff in the 
 first GTA game of this generation. Remember, GTA3 was also not so diverse on missions, had no rural 
 regions, no airplanes except Dodo and so on. But I'm sure R* will make all demanded stuff in time. 
 To make next generation San Andreas they had to delay the game by 2-3 years. So they made next-gen 
 GTA3 at first. And it's better than GTA3 in every possible way. Shooting is much more refined, 
 driving is great, shooting is amazing. But that's not making the game revolutionary. THE city and 
 story does. 
  Story is much more adult, serious and realistic. If you're 10-15 years old you'll not appreciate 
 it. But older ones definitely will. I wouldn't spoiler here, just enjoy it and think about referred 
 problems.
  But the most impressive part of the game is city itself. You can wander around for days and even 
 weeks and be amazed be extremely detailed city, life-like reaction of citizens, their comments, 
 conversations and actions. If you know foreign languages you'll be even more amazed. R* carefully 
 reproduced most of NY immigrants cultures, including russian, latin american and many more. Attention 
 to details is unbelieveble. If R* will make the same leap forward with GTA5 on next-generation 
 systems (don't expect this game before 2014) , you'll hardly tell a difference between the game 
 and reality. Anyway, even GTA4 can't be called just a game - it's much, much more. 
  Even if you don't like this game now, I'm sure you will when you'll get older and more adult (PC 
 upgrade will help too :) ) . So don't listen to negative commentaries, buy it, try it, and you'll 
 experience the most unbelievable game of our age - GTA IV! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gess79
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 20, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  On a rig that can run Doom 3, Crysis, Rainbow Six Vegas 2 without any problems this game (GTA) 
 with its ugly cartoon graphics runs like a slide show. Always funny when the graphics drivers are 
 blamed for the bad performance when others can produce much better graphics that are perfectly 
 fluent with the same drivers. Not being able to use a Joystick and the camera spinning around endlessly 
 sometimes is only adding even more to the unplayability of the game.
  
  Luckily I haven't payed the bill for the game yet. This pack of garbage is going right back to 
 the store. No money for Rockstar doublecrossers from me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: suryaprakash95
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  When I downloaded this game I heard game spot review say that this game was boring. But i downloaded 
 it anyways since i love gta. And i now realise the gamespot members who said so are idiots. This 
 is the best game ever. my pc is not supporting in full texture but it still rocks.
  
  For gta fans this is the best. The only thing i dont like is that it stucks in my pc , thats it. great 
 game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great 
 game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great 
 game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great 
 game great game great game great game vgreat game great game great game great game great game great 
 game great game great game great game great game great game great game great gamev great gamegreat 
 game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great game great 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknight20
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2008 2:01 am PT
Review:  For starter in order to play GTA IV you must install and sign up for Rockstar Games Social Club 
 (GSC) along with latest update of Games for Window live and .net framework 3.5, you have to sign 
 on to the Rockstar GSC every time you play GTA IV or at the very least you have to skip through 
 the Rockstar GSC sign in screen and then prompted you annoying message telling you in order to 
 play online you have sign up to GSC before running GTA IV. After you finish installing the game 
 and sign up for Rockstar GSC, you will need to activate your copy of GTA IV either online or offline 
 which request from its own web site for activating the game. The process of installing and activating 
 the game can be quite a bit of work compare to other titles out there. 
  Performance of GTA IV as for most people have is quite poor, in between the amount of time it takes 
 load the game from desktop to GTA IV main menu is about one minute and from main menu load up the 
 single player campaign takes up another one minute. I only able to set texture quality as high 
 as medium as stated from below which it does not look so good plus no option to adjust Anti-Aliasing 
 either which it is looking quite awful with objects/building with jagged edges. 
  
  Graphic setting: 
  Video mode: 1680 x 1050 (60hz) 
  Aspect Ratio: Auto 
  Texture Quality: 
 Medium 
  Render Quality: Very High 
  
  View Distance: 36/100 
  Detail Distance: 40/100 
  Vehicle Density: 40/100 
  Shadow Density: 5/16 
  Benchmark: 38 
 
  CPU Usage: 75% 
  System memory usage: 78% 
  Video memory usage: 98% 
  Resource Usage: 480MB / 493MB 
  
  Intel Core 2 Extreme QX6700 (factory over-clocked 3.2Ghz) 
 
  4GB DDR2 Ram (667Mhz) 
  1TB Hard Drive (Raid-0) 
  512MB NVIDIA GeForce 8800GT (ForceWare 180.84) 
  IDT High Definition Audio 
  Windows Vista 
 Ultimate (SP 1) 
  
  Keep in mind, do not trust its system requirement printed on this title and do not trust the test 
 result from [...] either because according those information my system should be able to run the 
 GTA IV in high setting which in actual game setting is not even close to high setting. It took 
 less than 10 second to load up Fallout 3 on my system since Fallout 3 had the similar system requirement 
 as GTA IV which I am very disappointed the fact GTA IV is taking 5 times as long to load the game 
 oppose to Fallout 3 plus I was able to run Fallout 3 in high setting vs. medium setting/no anti-aliasing 
 (AA) in GTA IV. It is a great title to own if you can tolerance playing the game under low-medium 
 quality graphic with no AA as well as dealing with some technical issue which hopefully a patch 
 will be releasing soon to fix that. 
  
  Gameplay was great probably the best GTA series ever made if weren't for technical issue, unacceptable/inaccurated 
 system requirement (Although Rockstar probably purposly printed lower system requirement just to 
 boost their sales) , and lack of AA to improve graphic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hommam
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  When i read reviews about GTA 4 in this site, i thought it might suck, but it's great. you will 
 love GTA 4 and Niko Bellic. this game is sooooooo great. I love it and till now i dont have any 
 problem with it, but for play this game you should have a very strong PC. i have pentium 4, core 
 due 2.4/ 1 Gb of VGA/ 2 Gb of Ram, and i run it with no problem. when you install this game youshould 
 also install "Rockstar games social club" and "games for windows _ LIVE" and your windows should 
 be "service pack 3". so if you want my oponion, go and buy this game becouse this game is highly 
 addictive and so great. and at the end i should say if you don't like GTA 4, SO GO FUCH YOURSELF 
 ;)
  
  
  I love GTA 4 *** *** I love GTA 4 *** *** I love GTA 4 *** *** I love GTA 4 *** *** I love GTA 
 4 *** *** I love GTA 4 *** *** I love GTA 4 *** *** I love GTA 4 *** *** I love GTA 4 *** *** I 
 love GTA 4 *** *** I love GTA 4 *** *** I love GTA 4 *** *** I love GTA 4 *** *** I love GTA 4 
 *** *** I love GTA 4 *** *** I love GTA 4 *** *** I love GTA 4 *** *** I love GTA 4 *** *** I love 
 GTA 4 *** *** I love GTA 4 *** *** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djdiablox02
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  PC: Intel Q6600, 8800GT 512Mb, 2Gb GeIL Ram, Vista 32bit, 19" standard dvi tft
  
  Firstly, let's not forget that this a fantastic game. It's been rated as a perfect 10 on the consoles 
 and other than the format, nothing's changed.
  
  Unfortunately the PC version is plagued with issues surrounding the performance. I needed to do 
 clean driver installs just to get the game running properly. Initially I couldn't see textures 
 so spent a few minutes circling around in some sort of transparent world with floating people and 
 cars.
  
  Once the clean Nvidea driver install had finished, I was immersed into this stunning world of GTA4. 
 As long as I didn't do too much at once, it was fantastic. Move through the map too quick though 
 and the whole thing turns into a stuttering mess.
  
  The patch hasn't really affected my version of the game other than to intermittently mess up my 
 graphics with the texture issues listed above.
  
  On the whole, the game is amazing and playing on a traditional keyboard/mouse setup is fantastic. 
 There's no loading as you move around the map like the consoles, only to load to and from cutscenes. 
 The performance issues are still here in abundance and during high speed persuits I regularly have 
 major lag in the game running and end up losing track of my car and destroying an entire line of 
 traffic and killing myself.
  
  Come on Rockstar, fix the performance problems and we'll all love you again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anandsekarn70
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 4:55 am PT
Review:  I thought after reading those user reviews the game would be crappy. Since i often rely on them 
 rather than Gamespot's review. But when I first played I found that this time I was wrong. Ofcourse 
 system requirements is really heavy and everyone should know this before getting a hand on it. 
 You have everything other GTA things had and definitely a lot more extras to explore liberty city. 
 Car damage is made somewhat realastic and crash effect on Niko is cool and one sweet thing is PC 
 games could be patched and it is always made perfect when the publishers have a good reputation. 
 Here in INDIA the price is cool. Just 499Rs approx $10. Thanx ROCKSTAR for this game. GTA 4 really 
 rocks Rockstar rocks. One part I dont like is that we have to be a part of the online community. 
 and you get prompts. a single player game should b played without being online. In INDIA for most 
 PC users being online throughout may be difficult. So it looses 0.5 score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Most likely you've played the older GTAs. If you have, this one really delivers the same experience 
 more or less, but with a few perks and yet some drawbacks.
  First off, the developers really wanted to emphasize on the realism in a way that distinguishes 
 it from the previous games. The environments really give that authentic feel which is a must in 
 a GTA game. This title gives plenty of that, yet lacking a little on the sheer size of the landscape 
 that we came to know in San Andreas. You won't, in fact, travel anywhere outside of Liberty City 
 (no planes either!!!!) . But driving downtown feels like you're actually driving downtown, walking 
 on a beach, feels like actually walking on a beach. It's VERY immersive. Both in terms of sound 
 and visuals.
  A huge plus is also the new cover system. I remember being so frustrated back in the days of Vice 
 City and San Andreas because i always died when facing multiple enemies shooting at me on open 
 ground. In GTA4 you can take cover practically behind anything solid.
  Also, when you shoot someone in the leg, or any limb, they actually act wounded instead of shooting 
 back like nothing happened. It gives you time to actually shoot various enemies without aiming 
 too much and buy yourself some time before you finish them off.
  
  On the other side, pnly two things really brought down the score i gave the game.
  
  Mission 
 failures. 
  I love that you can practically just hit the restart button on any mission if it fails, but what 
 i would love even more is a checkpoint system within a mission itself. I find it incredibly frustrating 
 to start a mission from the beginning just because i died falling off the top of a skyscraper after 
 fighting my way all the way to the top. Its incredibly time consuming... not to mention the last 
 mission....
  
  Bugs/glitches.
  I remember the previous games not being that perfect either. But GTA4 really stands out when you 
 look at it in terms of all the bugs and various glitches here and there. The game refused to run 
 my first try. After downloading various updates and microsoft .net framework 3.5 it finally worked. 
 Don't ask me how that relates to the game in any way but hey it worked.
  Yet, at random moments, the textures start going crazy, sometimes for extended periods of time, 
 sometimes only for a few seconds. This doesn't make the game unplayable, but really takes away 
 from that realism factor you're looking for in a game like this.
  
  Overall the game is great. A must have for any GTA4 fan and gamer alike. Just dont expect a perfect 
 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: falling_angel_z
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 18, 2008 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Please just tell me (i'm talking to you Rockstar game guys) what were you thinking when you didn't 
 use AA on this game. i almost cried over it. you ruined a great game for us poor always last in 
 the line pc gamers,. i could settle with low FPS or all the bugs, but this one really broke my 
 heart. for your information, these days even crappy flash games have AA. i played the game and 
 it's over now but at least for sake of my unresting soul in the grave after i die becouse of you 
 do a patch or something to fix it. i even can offer my organs for the budget. not enough? i'll 
 kill people and bring as much organs you need. or i can steal cars or rub or whatever is in GTA 
 just to get AA. without that AA when i'm killing people in the real life my subconcious feels jaggy 
 which makes me feel guilty. the conclusion is simple old pc gamer friend" WHYYYYYY?" or we can say 
WHYYYYYY US?"
  or... forget it, but really. why? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiberius_viper
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  really amazing New York feeling for that congrats R* -gta or any othr game for that fact has never 
 been so realistic , the story is really complex better than any other gta so far . Its true that 
 you dont fly 3 types of airplanes or own you're own airport in the desert but that never was what 
 the series was about. Best gta so far for those who know what the series is about . The bad thing 
 about this stunning game is the really high demandings of the game , you need at least 2 GB of 
 ram and a 256 or 512 mb ram at least on you're video card to play at a decent resolution , but 
 for those that can play the game will understand why the game asks for so much , the level of detail 
 in the game is just amazing , and all the city is loaded at once there are absolutely no loading 
 screens in the game , not to mention the adjustable level of trafic density , times square never 
 looked so real in a game before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggoldsmith
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  This PC version is only optimized for the very latest or future PC systems. I have a mid range 
 gaming rig, Windows XP, AMD dual core@2.8ghz, and a 8800gts 320 in SLI (but SLI is not working 
 yet.. waiting for a patch which wil come according to Rockstar) . No matter how I scale the game, 
 the FPS remains in the 16-25 range which tells me something is off. Fortunately, GTA IV is sort 
 of playable at low fps because of the nature of the game... but still very choppy at times especially 
 while on foot during fire fights. My system is not powerful enough to be able to use anti-aliasing, 
 which is too bad conscidering the low resolutions the game forces me play with (1152x864) . Therefore, 
 GTA IV can look jaggy/funky at times. Thankfully, and especially crucial because of the low FPS, 
 the control scheme is much improved over previous GTA games. Of course, the mission design can 
 be annoying. The in-game advice is often counter productive such as when the game tells you to 
 throw grenades and they end up blowing up in your face or destroying your getaway vehicle, such 
 as in the mission, "Harboring A Grudge." It's these specific missions which force you to replay 
 a long setup in order get back to the objective area. Thanks to You Tube, one can watch how others 
 beat those missions. I'm thankful to the posters who upload their victories.
  
  PC users like me with the lowish end rigs can still very much enjoy the game. I guess I'm one of 
 the lucky ones who haven't had stability problems.
  So good luck with the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magic_hand
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 10:20 pm PT
Review:  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  I know You can't run well this game like me and all of my friends but here i wanna say we should 
 wait for R*... maybe they'll release a good patch & we can play it with our PCs That can run many 
 new games... we should never forget other GTA versions... R* should never forget PC Gamers too... for 
 now i rate this game 5 because i have nothing against game play...& my only problem is Processor... This 
 game really eat it :) ..... i don't wanna say what is my Processor but it can run all other new games 
 Except this game... so if you have a MONSTER CPU & a good Graphic Card go & buy this game today.
 
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniper_usmc
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 17, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  this is my vote.. Someone should sue Rockstar for every penny they've got. And Pandemic why they're 
 at it. I'm still pissed off about ******* Mercs. 2. Now Rockstar has payed off some persons high 
 up on the totem pole to actually give this game a good review? Are you joking? I spent 3 #$U#$) (U 
 HOURS installing this game for some unknown reason??? and Then i had to install all this extra 
 add on bull krap just to run the game, For WHAT?!? The ******* game won't even start!!!! Thanks 
 Rockstar for robbing me of $50... really appreciate it. I would like to believe that you will release 
 a patch to fix this piece of krap but i doubt it... I think it would be more trouble for you to 
 try and clean up your mess than just starting from scratch on a new game. But i'll give you credit. 
 I told myself i'll never preorder a game or buy it before i see a review, but i gave in b/c you 
 released it so close to Christmas and i was almost positive that Rockstar wouldn't release an unfinished 
 game. You've proved me Wrong ! i'll give you two thumbs up you Crooks ;) . And if you think it's 
 my computer i doubt it, i just put in a Nvidia 9800 gt.. but it doesn't matter that was a waste 
 of money too, I'll never get to use it on games that can't even start 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adi_colegu
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  This game is incredible people. I mean, after over 40 hours of effective gameplay I can say that 
 this is definitely the greatest game I ever played beyond any doubt. 
  
  Why is that ? 
  
  All the elements combined - superb graphics ( except the pixelated shadows ) , physics of vehicles 
 and people on the streets, gameplay, script, plot, story, that living city in which you can interact 
 with anyone and anything anywhere anytime, day-night cycle, and those wild-crazy funny dialogues 
 and radio/tv commercials or shows , make this game a fulfilled game, perfect in every way. 
  
  I mean, I thought GameSpot exaggerated with that rating when I saw 10 on PS3 and XBOX360, but 
 now I understand exactly why they rated this game as perfect.
  
  But as so many others said, if you do not have an ultra high-end computer , you will be unable 
 to play this game because even on low-medium you will have a very low framerate, under 20 FPS because 
 the game is cpu bound and it requires a lot of video memory to run without stuttering. 
  
  I admit , the porting has not been optimized for the PC, but come on, almost 20 % of the reviewers 
 rated this game 1, how is this possible , are you that retarded? I' m sorry you can't play this 
 game but how do you expect playing a 2008-2009 game on a 2004 rig ? And because of the bad framerate 
 you come here and rate this game 1 ? In this case you do not deserve to play, you stupid lame hypocrites. 
 We paid lots of money and made sacrifices to have ultra high-end PCs, so of course we are entitled 
 to play this game smoothly. 
  
  And another thing : this being a CPU bound game ( floating point and most of graphics calculations 
 done on the CPU ) overclocking pays off, it's definitely worth it. I took my cpu from 3,16 Ghz 
 to 4,3 Ghz and I had a serious increase in performance.
  
  These are my benchmark results :
  
  Statistics
  Average FPS: 49.85
  Duration: 37.07 sec
 
  CPU Usage: 77%
  System memory usage: 53%
  Video memory usage: 52%
  
  Graphics Settings
  Video Mode: 1680 x 1050 (60 Hz)
  Texture Quality: Medium
  Render Quality: 
 High
  View Distance: 32
  Detail Distance: 70
  
  Hardware
  Microsoft Windows XP Professional
  Service Pack 3
  Video Adapter: NVIDIA GeForce GTX 280
 
  Video Driver version: 180.48
  Audio Adapter: Realtek HD Audio output
  Intel Core2Duo E8500@4300Mhz
  4 x 1GB Geil Ultra DDR2 900MHZ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gustavomp
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  All GTA games are good. This one isn't an exception.
  
  Probably you heard people saying "this one has been ad programmed" or "this game won't run on a 
 PC made with human technology".
  
  Maybe they are right. This game isn't for all PC. But if you have a good PC, buy it!
  
  This 
 game is the best in the GTA series. You will feel the city alive. Will see people buying hot-dogs, 
 pickpocketing each other, being chased by the cops and looking at you when you shot someone.
  
  The combat and aiming system couldn't be better. It's harder than before, the cover system 
 makes the game look more realistic, the enemies are very smart (don't expect them to run towards 
 you like a mindless zombie) and you, probably, will die many times.
  
  The driving also seems more realistic. You will need time to get used to it.
  
  The missions 
 are the best ever seen in a GTA. There are hundreds of missions and, thanks god, they don't get 
 repetitive.
  
  The dialogues are very good, the characters are charismatic, and the cut scenes are worth seeing.
 
  
  
  So, if you love GTA you will have to play this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UncannyChuckles
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2008 2:30 am PT
Review:  Dear Rockstar Games and Rockstar Toronto,
  I have been waiting to play GTA IV since it was announced for consoles. I don't own a Microsoft 
 (direct) Xbox or a Sony Playstation, so I waited patiently for the PC version. When the game was 
 released for consoles and received perfect and near perfect review scores from critics as well 
 as players, I was skeptical, I admit it. I didn't believe that any game deserved the kind of scores 
 GTA IV was getting, I was jealous. Any excitement and anticipation I had for playing it, I put 
 out of my head.
  But when the PC release date was confirmed, my excitement was renewed, albeit somewhat lessened 
 by time, and by the fact that many other games I was interested in came out this fall (namely Fallout 
 3 and Left 4 Dead) . I am a fan of digital distribution and I believe it is the way of the future, 
 so I was ecstatic to hear that GTA IV was going to be available on STEAM and I pre-purchased it 
 as soon as it was available. After a lengthy download (as expected) , an annoying Windows Live registration 
 (as expected) , a Rockstar SocialClub registration, and a few (unexpected) critical errors, I was 
 playing what I believe is not only the best Grand Theft Auto game, but the best video game that 
 has ever been created.
  Mandatory Windows Live registration, bugs, and steep system requirements aside, this game deserves 
 every bit of praise that it has ever been given. It represents the absolute height of video game 
 design and interactive storytelling. The attention to detail, the mature subject matter, the satire, 
 the humor, and the gameplay coalesce into a game that transcends the boundaries between game and 
 work-of-art. Congratulations, you've done it, you have created the first video game masterpiece.
 
  Because I feel like most of the opinions being voiced in various forums around the internet are 
 from people with technical problems, and don't give the game the credit it deserves, I want to 
 say thank you. Thank you for this game.
  -K. Stone
  P. S. Please continue to work on patches/updates that address bugs and performance issues. I understand 
 that developing for the PC is difficult and often less profitable than for consoles, but this game 
 deserves to be played, by as many gamers as possible, and the PC version could be the very best! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mJ335
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 12:57 am PT
Review:  I agree with the majority of you. This game was a disaster on its first week. Bugs, choppy images, 
 crashes, you name it, this game was broken. So.. hoping that there has to be a patch or driver 
 update coming.. I kind of focused on something else for a while. Well no surprise, the NVIDIA and 
 ATI driver update popped up. Downloaded that, installed it, and what do you know, it's fixed!!! 
 No lags, no choppy images, graphics galore.. I've played GTA 4 for PS3 at my friend's house, but 
 honestly speaking, the PC version has noticeably enhanced visual effects/detailed textures. The 
 gameplay, what can you really say.. the same old kick ass GTA gameplay which I loved ever since 
 GTA 3 came out. I'm not going to forget the sound effects/music/radio/t. v., it's great. I would've 
 gave this game a solid 10 if the game wasn't broken when I first bought it. Whoever has that choppy/bad 
 fps issue, download the driver update. It will make a difference. Trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shattered007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  Let me start out by saying that I love GTA4 I have it for my 360, I've played it for the PS3 and 
 I got it for the PC (mostly do to mods) . GTA4 is the story of Neko Belic an Immigrant that comes 
 to America under false pretense from from his cousin Roman Belic. Soon after his arrival, he discovers 
 that Roman sold him lies and ferry tail about his success in Liberty City.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  Best in the series. The including of the Rage and Euphoria system was a great decision. Rage 
 doll like physics make even the slightest bump to a NPC look real.
  
  Aiming and shooting has always seemed to be a problem with the GTA series. GTA4 is no exception. 
 I found myself in many situations where Neko would aim at the furthest cop away from him, while 
 the cop standing 10 feet away from me pumps me full of buckshot. While GTA4 does include Simi-free 
 aiming system you'll tend to press down to hard on the right trigger (if you're using the 360 game 
 pads while playing) and lock on to an unintended target.
  
  Driving in Liberty city takes some time to get use to. The Rage engine makes sure every car feels 
 and handles differently. Some cars feel heavy will others feel extremely light. Some people will 
 undoubtedly hate this new feel but it does add to the realism.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Not the pretty's game ever but it still is a looker. It's the amount of detail that'll catch you 
 off guard. Little things like Neko's foot prints in mud (or blood, depending on what you're doing) 
 are just a few things that when put together with the amazing skyline of Liberty City will have 
 you looking for other tidbits of little feature. 
  
  Car Damage literally rivals some racing games. Damage is real-time and clipping the under belly 
 of a 747 at the airport will leave you with some car damage that not only makes your Kelly Blue 
 Book value of the car zilch but in some cases make the cars Fenders lock up the tires of the car 
 and make it almost impossible to drive.
  
  Animations are realistic and grab your attention and there is no shortage of activities you'll 
 find pedestrians doing in there free time around Liberty City.
  
  PROFORMACE:
  
  My computer:
  Intel Core 2 Quad 6700 @ 3.00 GHz.
  4 gigs of ram @ 800 MHz.
  NVIDIA 9600GT 
 512mb @ 750 Core MHz/Ram @ 1000 MHz.
  
  As you can see by my computer falls in the mid range category. GTA4 limits you to how high you 
 can set your graphic sliders. Since my PC only video card only has 512mb I'm limited to the maximum 
 settings. An example of this is lets say I max out my resolution to 1280x 1024x (which is my max 
 setting for my monitor) than I cannot max out my draw distance (stops at 60%) or the Textures (Medium) 
 and this is upsetting because with everything else turned up I'm getting over 50 FPS with little 
 to no slowdown (which to me means I can go higher) This is a problem because textures on medium 
 look terrible. 
  
  Even with my high FPS there are way too many pop ups and slow texture rezzing. GTA4 is not optimized 
 and it shows.
  
  CLOSING:
  
  GTA4 is not to be missed. Reason I gave it an 8.5 is because the performance issues. The story, 
 game play and graphics are excellent and even with my performance issues the shear amount of content 
 on the screen make up for it. If you haven't already played the console version I'd suggest picking 
 it up!
  
  NOTE: I don't Rate the Online versions of games
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sfrattini
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  ok guys, too many reviews that goes from "Fantastic" to "total crap".
  First please do not compare this to PS3 version, but take it as stand alone PC game and compare 
 it with the previous GTA in a 2008 contest.
  Second, you need a Quad core CPU (look at the benchmarks in the forum) to run it. Too much spending 
 100$ on cpu + 70$ on the motherboard ? then go back to your PS3 or wait until they both cost 20$ 
 before posting.
  Third, how can you complain that you have to install Service pack to run this game? You do not 
 have service pack3 or sp1 for vista already on your system? Why not?
  
  Perfect, now you can write your review objectively.
  My score goes to GTA4 as an excellent game 
 with superb graphic, ambient and gameplay ruined by the installation of additional unwanted software 
 that force the user to be part of an online community to be able to play the game itself.
  
  Cheers
  
  Stefano
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terminatorobot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  |Information|: The graphics are so good that you can think that there is a real and living world 
 inside your computer...
  
  |Graphics|: Everything is well made, there are no bug's that I can find.
  The only thing is that 
 u need a good pc. It's a real revolution for the GTA.
  The weapon's is the biggest revolution. In San Andreas were the weapons unlikely and very bad designed.
 
  
  
  |Storyline|: The storyline goes about a Russian: Niko that goes to Liberty city to make money... 
 
  But it all go wrong...
  
  |Special?|: GTA IV is the real opportunity for players to do things in the game that u would like 
 to do in the real life.
  The soundtrack is beautifull and the civiliants of the city have a real life.
  There are some 
 mini-games like: Darts, go drinking ...
  
  |New?|: The police is this time easier to escape from, you only have to get out of the part of 
 the city that they are looking for you and stay out of trouble for a few seconds.
  
  
  GTA IV is the game of the year that you have buy...
  
  But first don't forget to look very 
 good at the configuration
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamslow123
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 7:24 am PT
Review:  who will spend 2000 upgrading their existing PCs?
  my PC plays most games on HIGH, some on Medium settings. with a fps of 40 +
  
  this game LOWEST 
 SETTINGs, i cant climb higher then 20.
  this is horribly embarrassing.
  I believe Microsoft has something to do with this, they are trying to raise the standards again, 
 this happens once every 3 years.
  I always expected first class stuff from Rockstart Especially with the GTA series, and especially 
 after so much hype and 500 + million sales with the console versions.
  yet they let us all DOWN, its not too late to fix this mistake with a patch, but you lost me there 
 rockstar.
  
  so what? it took you half a year to PORT a console game to the PC?
  are you too busy working on the expansion? 
  and you know what i don; t blame them, its Pirates 
 who are messing this up for everyone, the pc gaming market is just not as profitable as it used 
 to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 4, the biggest game of the year, that was a massive in the console world, but 
 now has finally arrived to the PC world, but doesn't the port quality really live up to snuff? 
 *cough* no **** way *cough*.
  
  Lets start with the Story, your name is Niko Bellic, a war veteran, who travels to America for 
 the American dream, to live with his cousin who tells him all these lies about his "faboulous" 
 life in America. When he gets there, he learns that all his cousin told him was a complete fabrication, 
 then it turns to a quest to get to the top really, doing various quests, earning money. Now I don't 
 want to critique the whole story, but I didn't find it intriguing at all, at some points in time 
 I skipped it entirely to focus on the shooting action, the characters however are very interesting 
 and fun to be around.
  
  The gameplay of GTA has had a total overhaul, it feels alot better and in some cases, alot easier 
 than previous installments. There is a new cover system obviously, this makes many of the firefights 
 in the game alot easier to finish, being able to take cover behind any surface comes fairly handy 
 in some of the later scenarios. The shooting to has gotten a bit of a tweak, it really feels satisfying 
 to fire various weapons within the game, Uzi's, rockets, anything, better done if you are shooting 
 into a random crowd.
  
  There are subtle changes to what you can do in the game, for starters, you have a cellphone, I 
 know, what the hell... But it becomes integrated into the game, you can contact your buddies for 
 a ride, or you can call an ambulance to heal you in the heat of battle. A weird but funny emission 
 in the game is the inclusion of dating, I know... Dating an NPC never felt so weird, but it can 
 be touching at some points in time, but some of the characters you date in the game are so one-dimensional, 
 it makes no sense to even try, if it weren't for the pro's they offered you so useful, I wouldn't 
 have even bothered with this feature. Ah the Graphics... where do I start... Well they can't be 
 ran at full detail... I wonder why... This game is a buggy **** this review concerns the Xbox 360 
 version, which I was stuck playing because my pc couldn't take the hit... My PC is easily stronger 
 than my 360, yet somehow seems to bottleneck on my pc... Textures disappear, you can't run this 
 even on 8xxx series of cards... Crashing issues, lock-ups, and some hitches in gameplay really 
 do manage to ruin the experiece of this game, if Rockstar were to patch these issues right the 
 **** up, then this game will be able to achieve greatness. Your pc won't run this game... It was 
 meant for "Future PC's"... What the **** is that supposed to mean? That means "Don't buy our game! 
 Not until you upgrade your pc!"
  
  I will like to point out that this piece of software installs another program known as Rockstar 
 Social club, great, more crap on my pc, please note that this application acts like steam, but 
 just takes up more ram. This App is like a security system for GTA IV, to play GTA, you need to 
 have a Rockstar SC account, I know, sucks... Multiplayer... Do I really need to go through this 
 with you? 32 players, run across the city and cause havoc... Thats all you need to know, there 
 are plenty of other modes available, but I really don't think that's why you are here...
  
  A great game buried under layers upon layers of technical issues, wait a couple months for patches 
 to be released, there are several pc games waiting to play this, and the fact that they released 
 a game in such a bug-ridden state further enhances the fact that Rockstar just ****ed us fellow 
 pc gamers, I hope they re-release this game with lower system requirements... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raven1993
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 15, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  This game was a major letdown. I have hardware above the recommended specs with all the latest 
 drivers yet I can barely even play it, even with everything on low. Most of the time it gets really 
 buggy just in the menu screen. Read the GTA Forums. There are many people in the same boat. There 
 is no reason to have such high graphics requirements. They could have just ported it directly over 
 and most people wouldn't have cared. At the most they could have made additional settings so that 
 the user can set his own graphics settings. The requirement to install the Rockstar Social Club 
 and Windows Games Live programs is pathetic especially for those that just want to play a single 
 player game. These additional programs just use up more of your RAM better spent on the game itself. 
 There is no way this game should have passed beta testing and yet here it is. I feel cheated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SEANMCAD
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  I only play the GTA's in cheat mode because I find following the gameplay to be far too restrictive 
 for my tastes. The idea of blocking off 2/3's of the map until you get  of the quests done is 
 about as "free form" as a haunted house at the carnival. Not to mention how you save your games 
 is just plain silly. But this is true for all the GTA games so I am trying to be objective here 
 but it is after all a review, no?
  
  I don't regret getting it, but in my view GTA3: SA is better because the cheats are better and its 
 has a bigger map. So in the context of GTA's its not best in series but its still worth a purchase 
 only because the rest of the gaming landscape is not much better anymore like it used to be.
  
  I think if they had a flame thrower, cheats to get into the rest of the city and less sensitive 
 police stars I would be more happy with it.
  
  Given the general state of games now compared to years ago this might very well be my last game 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reindeer911
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 15, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  What can I say? I have a PC that more than meets the recommended requirements, and has all the 
 updated drivers. Despite that the game frequently crashes, hogs system resources like there is 
 no tomorrow, and when it does run has numerous graphical errors. 
  
  
  Obviously somebody decided to bow to the power of the all-mighty dollar once again and either failed 
 to properly playtest this game, or decided to rush it out on the market before it was ready... 
 after all, got to grab that money from the xmas shoppers while the getting is good! Really getting 
 tired of the sh! t these G-damn game mills expect us to put up with while we line their pockets 
 with our hard earned money... 
  
  
  OK, here's the deal... game does look nice when it runs... obviously has the potential to be the 
 best of the GTA series thus far. However it desperately needs a patch or six and much better optimization 
 before I would even begin to consider it playable. 
  
  
  Will consider revising review once patches have been released... until then I consider this game 
 broken and rated accordingly. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmy8118
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  The PC version brings new things to Grand Theft Auto IV, while also bringing some thing down in 
 the process.
  
  The Good
  - Amazing Graphics
  - Multiplayer for up to 32 players
  - Interesting Characters and Story
  - Theater Mode similar to Halo 3's
  
  The Bad
  - May 
 not work on every PC
  - Graphics have been downgraded
  
  Overview -
  GTAIV was released for the Xbox 360 and Playstation 3 back in April, now it has been released for 
 the PC. The 360 and PS3 versions were great successes, can the PC version also do as good. It most 
 certainly does. For the most part the game has remained unchanged, same characters, story, missions, 
 city. GTAIV for the PC also brings some new game modes as well.
  
  Closing Comments -
  GTAIV is still a fantastic game on the PC, crystal clear and diamond looking graphics. Great characters 
 and story, and the multiplayer is still a good addition to the series. Although it's not as good 
 as the console versions. It's still a great game worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ov3rD0s3
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 15, 2008 6:44 am PT
Review:  Performance issues prevent this lazy PC port of a superb console game from being the best Grand 
 Theft Auto yet. And gamespot gives it 9?!!! Im getting really dissapointed of gamespot scores. 
 this game is stupid! first things first- NIKO BELLIC? serbian? find me one serbian that has double 
 L in surname. Second, i can't understand a word he is saying in his language. and believe me, i 
 can't speak serbian. so wtf is this niko bellic? if u ask me, the most boring and stupid character 
 of all times. i played this game for 10minutes, after i had to go on the date, well, at that time 
 i realize that the game is rather lame.. and if you add bugs, performance issues, and the fact 
 that gta is the same for couple of years. i cannot, simply cannot, agree of scoring this game higher 
 than 7. and gamespot rewievers, get a life! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake3232
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 2:57 am PT
Review:  After spending Hours try to do a manual offline install I was over-excited to get my fingers on 
 the remote. But what i realized was after installing was that i needed Windows Vista Service Pack 
 1, which i didn't have, which really pissed me off because i have dial-up.
  Anyway after shortly browsing i found that you can run the game using the compatibility tab and 
 running it under windows 2000. THANKS FOR THAT
  
  As far as the game goes, the gameplay is way better than the console versions, the User tracks 
 and the Replay Editor are nice little expansions for the game to keep you occupied. The graphics 
 were great, not good enough for the requirements you need to play it though. The only thing that 
 still pisses me off is the Texture Problems the game has.
  
  Rockstar failed to test this game on most computers, its as if they just stuffed a PS3/or Xbox 
 360 emulator on your computer and the game is running its ass off to run the game.
  
  All i can say is GOOD LUCK ROCKST*R, and get back to us quickly
  
  BTW im running the game 
 off:
  ATI radeon 3850 256mb
  2g ram
  Dual core or sumtin like that
  And it works on everything MAXED OUT including TExtures
  
  OVERALL:
  This game isnt sh*t, 
 it is actually fun if you can runIT of course 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrMaxim
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 15, 2008 1:13 am PT
Review:  If i buy a game, i shouldnt have to spend 10 hours trying to get it working and wait days for 
 the patch (thank steam, i got my money back, but rockstar still ignores the big proplem like a 
 bunch of greedy rebublicans) .
  
  
  Horrible optimization thanks to laziness of Rockstar. Im able to play it on 800 x 600 & low with 
 a PC that runs Crysis high / 720p. The game is very playable on the consoles, but i dont like 
 Rockstar whoring out an original pc-game and leaving pc-gamers with **** After supporting the idiot 
 company for 10 years, its definately over now. I hope Mafia 2 will run all over this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donoghu
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 15, 2008 12:36 am PT
Review:  I won't repeat what have been already told in the long.
  
  I'll simply tell the difference with the console version
  
  - Differents graphics... 
  If 
 you have the lasted COMPATIBLE videocard and specs on the market.
  Ok. So, how should I put this? There is big difference of graphics between the PC and console version. 
 Is it better? It's up to you to take a choice. The PC version offer less realistic graphics if 
 we're looking at reality. The glow of metalic surfaces, if your computer can run it, is like... 
 too much! The textures and the glow makes EVERY cars, in the game, looks like if they were brand 
 new. (On the console, it looks like the reflect and textures were not too much and not too low... 
 Just correct to be called "Normal used usual car") . The characters aren't better either. Their 
 skin and form look even more detailed, but in the wrong way. Giving more details isn't always a 
 good thing (just think about the HD TV and the news reporters issus...) since they're, now, looks 
 like Barbies with their "too soft and polished to be realist" skins.
  
  - Some change like in the number of citizen and cars in view...
  Wow... More citizen to be killed 
 and car to be crashed... What's the use of it? The only issus, in console version, about number 
 of car and citizen in on multiplayer while being far from the main groups while having the option 
 "Lots of traffics" which deliberatly put all the cars to 2-3 groups maximum. And, now, you can 
 do a destruction dirby with up to 100 cars instead of 25... Well, now, you'll be able to see a 
 trail of cars that's crashed up, on the highway, that goes beyond the point of view... What a change 
 to the game! Wow, it's so usefull that I almost burk on my keyboard.
  
  - Video Editor...
  Another kind of thing to add the the Youtube chronicles... "Did you see it? 
 Did you see it? I did it! I have lost 3 hours in making a stun short useless movie! Now, I'll be 
 a the king of Youtube!"... Well, in your dreams, kids!
  
  - Private Radio Station...
  Ok... So, in the Xbox 360 at least, we can bring the XBox-Menu and start our own track and listening 
 to musics even while being ouside of cars and we can change the music at will... This has evolved 
 into a private radio that you can just listening to it while driving, that you can't change track 
 (since it 1 radio station which play all your music in turn) What a evolution! It's like he we 
 redo the weels with square angles!
  
  So... Why should I buy this game on PC instead of on a console? There are the 3 reasons :
  
 
  1. You don't own either a PS3 nor a XBox360.
  2. You're short on cash and his price will fall fast enought to 30-40$ instead of the common console 
 price of 45$-60$.
  3. You prefer keyboards and mouse over joystick.
  
  Otherwise, you should consider keep your money or buy on a console...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: therobi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 12:23 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV Review
  ok so i rarely do reviews and i have time to kill so i thought this game is worth reviewing.
 
  
  You rarely or almost never find a game in which you have everything. In most of the times when 
 you find a game that's worth your while, sooner or later you end up feeling that something is missing 
 from that certain game. well, GTA IV is really something else. You can really tell how much attention 
 rockstar paid to the details in the game. 
  
  The main story is very lenghtly so if you're a casual gamer that spends only a couple of hours 
 playing, it will take you a week or two to finish just the main story. But if you're really looking 
 to finish the entire game, you can double or even triple that time, If you're not in a hurry. And 
 believe me when i tell you that you will not be dissapointed by the game since this is the best 
 gta story so far and you will find Niko Bellic the most likeable GTA protagonist. The game starts 
 with Niko going off a boat as an immigrant and meeting his cousin Roman after 10 years, as Niko 
 finds out that Roman wasn't exactly living the "american dream" as he was writting in the letters 
 sent to him, and was only a simple guy with many debts to loan sharks as Vad for which Niko ended 
 up as his errand boy for a while just to help out his cousin. The story develops beautifully, Niko 
 meeting a lot of good and bad characters along the way, and it's not exagerated from the point 
 of view where he ends up having mansions and such. You can just say he starts off from scratch 
 and ends up doing well. Keeping your friends happy will earn you lots of bonuses like free cabs 
 or free heli rides across the city , you only having to call that person and select a certain available 
 service. This is also an added challenge since everyone in the game has different personalities 
 and will comment on the way you drive, the way you're dressed, the way you act or even the radio 
 station you are listening to. You can go on lots of dates which you can set from the internet with 
 women ... and men, but again you can get refused according to the kind of profile you have if a 
 certain woman doesn't like it, and you will receive mails of refusal. 
  
  The level of detail in the game is enourmous. There is a large variety of sports you can practice, 
 like darts, pool, bowling, arcades, etc. You can buy ringtones and themes for your phone, and also 
 you can go and watch cabarret and comedy shows, which by the way are very funny. There are lots 
 of radio talk shows which again are very funny and are a lot more varied compared to previous GTA 
 games. The soundtrack in the game is very nice you have the option to choose from a variety of 
 songs; from rap to dance to house and reggae. in GTA IV the map is huge with many secrets to discover, 
 like unique jumps which are a lot more exciting than in other GTA games, and a new type of "hidden 
 package" called the "flying rat" which look just like pigeons to me but are easier to spot because 
 they make a sound when you are close even if you don't see them. You can also do a lot of races, 
 do errands for people on the streets, you can get drunk, go at the internet cafe where you can 
 visit your mail or just browse the sites posted which are also funny. Unlike SA, there are no loading 
 times when entering or exiting a building which saves you some time. But what really gets you is 
 the fact that the city feels very alive. 
  
  The gameplay is very smooth in this game. If you are in a gunfight, you can manualy aim and shoot 
 at any part of the body so if you just want to injure the enemy, you can just shoot in his arm 
 or leg and he will drop his weapon, even though it's prefered to kill him since after a while he 
 will pick up the weapon again. However the number of weapons in this game is lower compared to 
 SA or Vice City. But even so, you will not really miss the other weapons. Niko's physics are very 
 much improved since he leans a little on a side if you run towards left or right and when you fall 
 he doesn't fall like a manechin and has more realistic movements while falling. If you crash your 
 car into something, Niko will go flying through the wind shield which looks satisfyingly cool in 
 a sadistic way. He is also more fragile which makes it more realistic so 6 or 7 bullets will kill 
 him if not wearing armor. And speaking of realism, Niko will not take the same damage if falling 
 from a certain height, because it depends on the way he falls. If he falls on his back he will 
 surely die but sometimes if he falls from the same height and lands on his feet, it's possible 
 that Niko takes almost no damage. Also, depending on his injuries, the hospital will charge you 
 accordingly for medical treatment after you have been killed (passed out) .
  
  The visuals in the game are slightly better on the pc than on the console counterparts, but at 
 the same time it suffers some performance issues since the game has insanely high system requirements 
 which drags the game down a little bit. Let's just say they could have optimized the game better 
 because it laughs at most processors you throw at it, because of the world that needs tremendous 
 processing, more than any game we've encountered so far. So if you want max quality you will need 
 a deep pocket. For best experience it is better to set the graphical details as low as it lets 
 you have a smooth framerate. One detail that deserves to be mentioned is that even on low settings, 
 the water in the game looks amazingly ridiculously real which blows me away each time i see it 
 from a boat for example, while the sun rises or sets. The level of graphical detail at max settings 
 is amazing and it's among the best visuals i've ever seen. Other disadvantage the game has is that 
 you need no less than 2 accounts at Windows Live and Rockstat Game Social Club which wasn't taken 
 very lightly by the gaming world. The sound in the game is satisfying and the voice acting is not 
 bad either, since the number of voice actors in the game is very high.
  
  Online playing is ridiculously satisfying and very easy, multiplayer mode being accessed from your 
 phone, where you wait in a lobby for the online match to start. Unlike the consoles where the online 
 feature supports only 16 players, the PC supports up to 32 players where you can have more fun 
 in the city, having the ability to choose from a douzine of game modes. If being a host of the 
 game you have the opportunity to customize just about anything in the game, from the level of traffic 
 in the game to the police presence and weapon sets.
  
  All in all if you haven't played the game yet, then you shouldn't miss out such a jewel which deservers 
 your upmost attention no matter If you are a hardcore or a casual gamer looking for fast thrils. 
 If not sure what to play, then this game is a must and it definitely is worth your while, but make 
 sure you have the proper hardware before you get the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amansandhu
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 11:06 pm PT
Review:  I'll make it short & to the point. First of all, all those who are complaining about the game get 
 the recommended machine & buy original software because there's nothing wrong with the game & I'm 
 running it fine without patch & any trouble. At first I was very skeptic about buying the game 
 but after playing it I can say there's nothing wrong with it.
  
  All those who want to play this game first get the proper rig for it. I'm using Intel Core 2 QUAD 
 2.4 Ghz
  4 GB RAM
  Nvidia Geforce 9600 GT 512 MB
  
  I can easily run the game on 1280-1024 resolution, use the auto configure option, then reduce the 
 view distance to the lowest value & same for the shadow density, turn off the clip capture option 
 & you'll get 40 to 42 FPS easily with superb gameplay.
  
  Get the proper rig, apply the tweaks suggested & the game runs perfectly.
  
  ENJOY!!! its a 
 superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jadd6810
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  I took my chances with this game and am glad I did. Its alot of fun. I played all the GTA series 
 games that have been made for PC... This one is great! True you will need a robust machine to make 
 it look pretty though. I would think most PC gamers would have a great machine though... so the 
 folks complaining about it... whatever... Compare you specs to mine, and if your close then you 
 should buy it for sure! 
  AMD phenom quadcore, black edition. 2.5ghz each
  Nvidia series 9800GT
  4 Gbs RAM
  Vista Home Premium x64
  22" Acer WS running at 1680X1050
 
  I don't think you'd need all that to play, but I still cant crank things up to max rez... I left 
 most settings at auto and there are times where the textures will go to a flat one color... its 
 rare though.
  The multi player I think is kinda lame, not many people on the last two times I have checked it 
 out.
  I think logging in to the Rockstar Social Club and windows live is lame, and I don't think you 
 have to, not sure, but there are achievements to unlock and that's the only way to keep track of 
 them... but still I think its lame. I have spent up my entire weekend playing and cant get enough. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koospetoors
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV inevitably made it to the pc. But in such a poor condition most people will never be able 
 to play it. Even when you get it running, you will still be sitting in a pool of problems not even 
 Chuck Norris can fix.
  
  This "game" is practically unplayable for some people, while it works perfectly on other peoples 
 rigs. But let me first write about all the good things of this game.
  
  If you get the game up and running, you will most likely have a blast (that is, if you don't run 
 into texture problems, try cacheboost to fix that) . The whole GTA IV you will find on consoles is 
 still intact, just with a few changes this time around. The auto - aim isn't present this time, so 
 a keyboard and mouse works perfectly in this game (even though every friggen seperate action you 
 can do in the game is mapped to a specific button) .
  
  The cover system still works well. Gunfights are exciting as ever. Euphoria is luckily still present. 
 The video editor works well and the graphics (if you can run it) is good, except for the shadows, there 
 is a huge bug with the shadows.
  
  So basically the game is great, but, this port is the worst port in existence. You cannot find a badder 
 pc port than this.
  
  The game requires you to have "Rockstar social club" installed, along with the newest version of 
 windows live for some strange reason. That is not all though, you will still have try and get through 
 securom and will probably need an app. that will help with the texture problems.
  
  You also need a really, really high end PC to run this. Even if you have one, you will still encounter 
 problems. Problems like lag, missing textures (which is a big problem, Cacheboost fixes it though) , crappy 
 shadows and many other problems will keep this game from showing its true potential.
  
  The main reason I gave this game such a low rating is because:
  
  1. Its Rockstar who ported 
 it, they usually get things right when it comes to porting GTA
  2. All previous PC GTAs were perfect ports, why not this one?.
  3. Its the worst port this year 
 and probably ten years afterward it will still be the worst port ever!.
  4. The patch fixes nothing.
  
  I recommend you stay away from this game until it gets properly 
 fixed.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ferrari2310
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 14, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  I have the game run always on max settings, i dont mean the max it will allow me as that is only 
 med. settings and it resembles san andreas, where i was expecting something stunning.
  
  So after a little forum searching i found the launch commands to remove all the restrictions (-norestrictions 
 -nomemrestrict -novblank) . So after a few benchmarks with fraps and some general messing around 
 ingame the game is very playable with textures on high, render Highest, traffic density, draw distance 
 & detail distance all on 100 and shadow density on 16.
  
  I tried to test the most gpu intensive parts i could find, driving through star junction at night 
 at speed, creating large pile ups of cars then throwing a nade at them and various other stuff 
 like the big jumps etc.
  
  I tended to find my average fps was between 23-30 on my pc, sounds low i know but its completely 
 playable with no lag, except for the quirky render lag that has plagued all the GTA series u get 
 from time to time.
  
  I think rockstar biggest problem was for some reason best known to them, they added the restriction 
 settings. I'm sure a 8800 GTS wont be that far behind my 4850, esp since their is no AA in the 
 game in terms of avg fps on maxed out settings. This coupled with the fact that they obviously 
 didnt spend much time in optimising the scaled down graphics options i can understand why it got 
 alot of complaints. 
  
  One thing i would add is that anything below a 8800 or a 4830 ati card your most likely not going 
 to enjoy the rich graphics update that GTA IV offers. Lets face it tbh, a 8800 GTS is now considered 
 a low end spec gfx card these days and anything below it is now in the budget market where as 6 
 months ago they were pretty much at the top of the market. guess thats just the PC for you :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: francindon
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 14, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  Most dissapointing game ever ! This game was supposed to be designed for super computers or mainframes, 
 not PC ! My PC has dual 8800 ultra, quad 6600, 8 GB RAM and it is still not good enough for this 
 game. This game did not offer SLI. This means I do not have any advantage in comparision with using 
 single video card. With only 1 8800 ultra, I tried to set graphic to High and tried to play. The 
 screen did not move ! I quit and then set the graphic to Medium. Frame rate was better, about 3 
 frames per second ! This is not a joke ! Finally I set to Low. Then i could play. However, it worked 
 just for a while. Frame rate began to be unstable, the screen began to shake.. Finally I deleted 
 this game! Waste of time ! Waste of money ! With this insane hardware requirement and poor performance, 
 how many people who have PC powerful enough to play this PC version ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vrlja
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 14, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  First thing first, how can it be that this game works on PlayStation with no problems and still 
 looking beautiful!? But on my pc which is dual core 5.6 Ghz, Ge-force 8600 Gts, 4Gb Ram, looks 
 like a bad dream! because all settings are on low and they cant be changed...
  .
  Obviously "Rock-star" collected lots of money from consoles and now they are collecting it form 
 Big companies to make this game buggy and with abnormal system requirements just to sell hardware...
 
  Not to mention all the incredible stupid things like Social Club i have to go trough just to play 
 the game!
  You should be shame of yourself "Rock-Star", you just lost a costumer for life!
  Now i am going to delete this crap form my hard disk and now i am waiting for saints row 2. hope 
 they wont make same mistake.
  I waited this game for so long to come to PC and finally now when it is here all i see is big screw 
 up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stan42
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 14, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  I'm reviewing GTA 4 PC version here. Repeat: PC VERSION! The only reason why Gamespot gave this 
 a 9.0 score and some other reviewers rate this game above 1.0 is because their judgement is based 
 on the console versions:
  Needless to say GTA 4 is a great game. In fact, it's personally the best of the GTA series.
  
 
  However, no matter how good a game is, it's worthless if you can't play it. First I thought it 
 was my PC, but after reading Gamespots review, going through the forums here and trying it out 
 on different systems, I must say that the game is simply a lousy port. If not THE most lousy port.
 
  
  As Gamespot has already reviewed, the game runs terribly even on systems that far exceed the recommended 
 requirements. Sure, it runs, but at far lower resolutions and with far lower settings than it's 
 console counterparts.
  Then there's the fact that no gamepads other than the Xbox controller will work. After that, the 
 whole Windows LIVE thing is just minuscule.
  
  Bottom line: 
  GTA 4 on consoles: Game of the Year
  GTA 4 on PC: Shame of the Year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adk4e
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  Ok I have a "monster" computer and im able to run (after the drives update) the game well... but 
 I expected from a game that took this long to make and from rockstar a lot and I mean a LOT better, 
 yea if you can run it the graphics are exellent 10/10 and the radio is great and the way they have 
 made the game so much more realistic then most games is great but... where are the options where 
 is the free choise, they should learn somethings from fallout 3. i mean in gtasa u had more options 
 you could have bought houses and there was the gym that I tought was fun but from a game like gta 
 4 i expected a lot more free will, if its buying houses or picking up deferent dates are been able 
 to call ppl and get them not only when there is a mission i mean comon, and the control u have 
 over ur car sucks you drive a little fast you wont be able to make a turn, and the police they 
 killed the police they are so easy to run from and they are not fun at all. all this things aside 
 gta4 is a fun game just not what I expected from them its more of an expention for gta3 only with 
 better graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdrAcAbAdrA
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  I started playing GTA IV 2 days ago & I really can't stop!
  The atmosphere is just amazing, graphics are perfect, city is alive, everything looks & acts real!
 
  Story is involving & great, gameplay is highly addictive, & full of new ideas! Don't believe those 
 bad reviews most of them are using pirated games & those problem are because of cracks, the minimum 
 system is above average but once you play the game you realize it's really needed! AI is unbelievably 
 great & amazing, it's the game which makes you proud of being a gamer! :D
  There are a lot of complains about Windows Live & Rockstar Social Club but it really takes a couple 
 of minutes to set them for the first time & after that you are good to go!
  This game really deserves your money & time! I can easily say that's the best game I have ever 
 played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shahm01
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2008 3:08 am PT
Review:  It's A very nice game to play and you will never get bored playing this great game because there 
 is a lot of things to have fun beside the missions of the story which is very long so in one word 
 it's the most amazing game i have ever played BUT it has tow problems and the first problem is 
 an important one that the game needs a super computer so you can play it smooth and well .
  I had bought a powerful computer but when get this game and installed it on my PC and played it 
 , it wasn't running so well .
  my PC have :
  
  x : Intel Cure 2 Due 3.4 GH \ 2 MB Cach
  x : GigaByte EP31 - DS3L
  x : Nvidia 8500 GT 
  x : 3X 1GB
  
  The second problem is in the 
 game ... what if i want to pimp my ride i think skipping the barber shop is OK but skipping the 
 chip shop is realy annoying
  and for those who are keep saying the game is not playable ...... well it is but not on office 
 computers it needs some power and it's not so expensive .
  that's my opinion and thanks for hearing me .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizzman2332
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2008 12:13 am PT
Review:  For all u hwo say that the gta pc controls suck buy urself a Xbox-360 Controler for Windows and 
 stop wineing!!!! And buy urself a realy good Quad Core like Q9550 to be able to max out the settings 
 the game is performing porly mainly because of low processing power and get an Nvidia Gtx280 performs 
 realy great or 2 if possible to use SLI config! Apart from the fact that u need a kinda almost 
 top nocth pc to max out the gfx settings it's an asolutley fantastic game and the best of it's 
 series iet and it exceedes by quite far the console versions in graphics meaning more cars densety 
 more real life like lighting efects , better shahows some new features added to some vehicles more 
 vivid colors more realistic smoke , particles and true life like metal dents more realistic enviroment 
 sun lighting All thanks to the Nvidia Phisix , Nvidia Cuda (for craphics developers since now was 
 avalable only to Nvidia Quadro cards) Thre is realy the fact that the game has phisical memory 
 leakes and it is a bit nastly coded and it eats up allot of processing power. Some patches should 
 be released to solve this problems. But no problems for me with the config above and SLI config 
 only smoth gaming 4 me mith olnly minor glitches 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maniksdi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 11:04 pm PT
Review:  First of all . . I wanna slap the gamespot critics for saying the keyboard and mouse controlling 
 is bad . . they dont know how to use PC . . you dont hold ur keyboard like a xbox controller u 
 noobs! I can aim ur head faster with the mouse than any joystick or controller u throw at urselves! 
 . . n thats the end of that :)
  
  I finished GTA3 in my brand new GeForce 2 video card . . ran well and it was really fun . . the 
 change from gta 2 to gta 3 was breathtaking . . but I remember back then, the GeForce 3 was the 
 best graphics card in the market . . so yes .. the real GTA series alwas asked for the monster 
 rigs to run smoothly . . . so here we are . . GTA4 . . I use a nVidia 8800 GT 512MB . . works great 
 :D
  
  Now the game has gone a lot more real than the last GTAs . . it's not as big as San Andreas . . 
 the city is 1/3 of SA . but this 1/3 is the most realistic city in the world . . . better world 
 than assassin's creed imo . . . yes, Liberty City is as live as it can be . . the traffic the pedestrians 
 . . the actions u pull are really impressive at their own realism. The city itself is impressive. 
 . . . Driving got a lot tougher . . but if you slow down a bit and improve ur cornering skills, 
 you will start to like the new engine which puts weight to your cars . . . some of the elements 
 are missing from SA but as long as you are playing the storymode, you will not miss any of the 
 old GTAs. 
  
  Gameplay: . . really good . . it's the most realistic GTA upto date.
  
  Story: goes in parallel lines. you can hardly tell which one leads to the main plot, so all the 
 quests are brilliantly plotted.
  
  Graphics: excellent. the details are simple brilliant. I could not run the game at full details, 
 but half details are better than many HD games upto date.
  
  Sound: omg . . the raidio is still as good as before . . the TV is funny . and the stand up comedy 
 shows are performed by professionals. . sound effects does not need compliment :)
  
  there are no Bads in the game except for the fact that you dont have much to do once the story 
 mode ends. and I cant play online . . so yeah the game ends there . . . and I miss flying the jumbo 
 jets . . but as long as the story goes on . . it's the old GTA addiction experience . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbit2006
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 13, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Who does Rockstar think they are ? Why did they say before the release of GTA 4 that even a 3yr 
 old machine would run it ? Now when the game has gone banana, they are backtracking on their promise. Stupid 
 cowards. They dont even have the courage to admit their mistake. Maybe it doesnt matter to them since 
 we, the gamers are the biggest losers. How dare they tell us now that people with current and updated 
 systems would have to run the game in medium settings. A machine which ran Fallout 3, Far Cry 2, 
 Crysis Warhead on maximum settings with 40-50fps cant even run it properly on low settings. What 
 a shame!!!!!!!!!! I am not going to be forced by them to change to Quad core or whatever just because 
 these Rockstar guys wants us to. The game is excellent but its not even worth wasting your money 
 on better machine when its not good enough to run machine way beyond its recomended specs. A total 
 failure from a coward developer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masigme
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 13, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Pros: It's Grand Theft Auto, duh. 
  
  Cons: No anti-aliasing (a jagged edge nightmare) , too many graphical glitches (weird lights, reflections, 
 etc.) , poorly optimized for the PC (You have to wonder about a game with a not so sophisticated 
 engine, graphics, and textures causing significant slowdown on high end machines - E9650, 4GB Ram, 
 Powercolor 4870 - Come on! 15-30 fps?!) . Memory leaks galore. Unnecessary Windows Live registration 
 to save your games (Useless and meaningless show of power by Microsoft over their Rockstar b*tches?) .
 
  
  Conclusion: Over hyped (but with a well-funded bribes chest for reviewers) and poorly coded release 
 for the PC. It feels like you're playing an emulator-only in reverse! I was more satisfied when 
 I played it on my friend's X-Box than when I played it on my PC. 
  
  Result: From now on, I won't trust the reviews of Gamespot and IGN, I'm switching to an European 
 site with more trustworthy reviewers (Hint: they gave GTA a 7) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Invisiblejim
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  Well the game looks lovely, and as with everyone else you'll have plenty of time to look cause 
 its slow as hell.
  
  The main disappointment is the whole smeggin I GOT to sign up and log in Microsoft live just to 
 Save!!
  
  WTF is that all about... I dont give a flying poop what league tables there are... I dont want to 
 be compared to others who play the game.. I dont want to have to log on the internet just to play 
 the game... why Oh why are you smegging developers forcing this on consumers. Note the word CONSUMER.
 
  
  Its a the beginning of the end it seems for PC gamers... the big bad finger of conformity or buy 
 our consoles is firmly being wagged at us all, cause we want to rip you off loads for our overprice 
 console games... muwhaha.
  
  pfft.
  
  Rockstar really has seemed to sold its soul to the devil. what a damn shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedikevin2
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 13, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  The overall game play of this game is amazing. The story, style, controls are all up to par and 
 could easily give this game a 10/10. The problem is that if you are a high end pc gamer get ready 
 to be pissed. I was running a quad core 2.8 ghz, asus 9600 gts in sli, 4 gigs ram and the problems 
 I've had are ridiculous. my system easily pumps out games such as fallout 3, crysis, and far cry 
 on high/very high as 1440 x 900 resolution. When ti comes to this game its like reverting back 
 to oldies such as counterstrike and original half life. I'm forced to play in the range on low/mid 
 and even then i'm getting very bag fps drops down to the 10's. Theres some small artifacting going 
 on in the distance and the game crashes at least once a hour. Now include, securom crap and Microsoft 
 live force saves and this game is pitiful. I highly doubt the writer of the reviewer on gamespot 
 even played this game or he would be dropping that 9.0/10 in a heartbeat. When rockstar has to 
 go plead to nividia and ati to help get a new driver out that would help the problems in the game 
 then somethings terribly wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: boriszex
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 13, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  Oooooo man, I really don't know what to say for this pathetic port. I can't describe how much I 
 was happy when I bought this game, but after installation first problem occur, I had to install 
 SP3, OK that was not a big problem, I downloaded SP3 from Microsoft website and start the game, 
 and then nightmare start, the game couldn't even work under my graphic card GeForce XFX 7950GT 
 512MB, it was is full of bugs that I had to wait for latest driver updates. After few days nvidia 
 180 drivers become available I install them and even with these latest drivers the game was working 
 so slow that even this PC specs AMD Athlon 3000+, 1.5GB RAM, GeForce XFX 7950GT 512/256 were not 
 enough. Rockstar disappointed me so much that believe or not I want play any of their games anymore 
 if they don't fix these problems with some patch. If I have chance to ask some GTA4 developers 
 1 question I would ask why for god sake they added this graphic card GeForce 7900 256MB for minimum 
 requirements when not even this GeForce XFX 7950GT 512MB could run it properly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BluePhoenix48
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  I almost believed the bad reviews about this game, but I'm lucky I did not after all. First of 
 all, about the performance, I own a 512 MB DDR3 ATI HD 4670, 4 GB DDR2 RAM and Dual Core Pentium 
 D 2.8 GHz. It's not a very high-end rig, but it can still play the game well in 1280 X 1024 in 
 medium-high settings. I'm getting 15 -16 FPS and it still is surprisingly smooth and good looking.
 
  
  The game is really good. It retains the goodness of previous games of GTA title. I have played 
 the game for two days, mainly exploring everything. Here is how I saw it.
  
  (Some SPOILERS ahead)
  
  
  Cons-
  
  1. It would have been better if it was a bit more 
 optimized in case of lower-end PCs, which would have trouble running the game.
  
  2. Where are the bicycles and airplanes? They were some of the main attractions in San Andreas.
 
  
  3. I have yet to find the 'epic' feeling we found in San Andreas. It's a good story no doubt, but 
 pales in comparison to San Andreas. It's kind of personal because I preferred the combination of 
 city life + country life.
  
  4. There are some minor glitches, but they are not worth mentioning at this time.
  
  
  Pros-
 
  
  1. Just awesome visuals. Liberty City feels alive every time of the day- from dawn to midnight. 
 Very good work on the lights. And good colors. The physics are very improved since San Andreas.
 
  
  2. The story is ideal. Combines the sense of action, adventure with the comedy. It's a great work 
 of the art.
  
  3. Girls- lots and lots of them. Need I say more?
  
  4. Nice combat system. More tactical than hack and slash. Needs thinking.
  
  5. Tons of minigames.
 
  
  6. A cool protagonist.
  
  7. Really addictive gameplay. Always keeps you hungry for more.
  
  8. A live city- much more 
 advanced than Vice City or previous Liberty City.
  
  9. Intelligent NPCs.
  
  10. Less loading times.
  
  
  That's about everything I can think of now. So, you see why 
 you should try this game. If you are a fan of previous GTA games, you'll love this. If you are 
 new to the genre, it's all the more reason to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragontech22
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  Excellent game thats well worth the money and hassle to get it running if you don't have it on 
 a console yet. Still, there is no reason to have to run 2 extra programs (GFW live, and R. star 
 Social Club) , internet verification, and still have to find the disc to play after 16GB install? 
 And the hardware requirements, just crazy. One can't help but wonder why a machine thats multiple 
 times more powerful than a 360 has a hard time running it at similar graphics settings. I have 
 a clean computer, no spyware/adware. I minimize my background processes, yet, even with my computer 
 I still see serious framerate issues at strange places. Other issues include online play. The physics 
 online are terrible when you collide with objects and other players especially. I have ran people 
 over only to have them disappear from under the tires and appear next to my vehicle shooting me. 
 Sorry, but on a cable modem that gives me 40-60 ping on COD: World at War, there shouldn't be lag 
 issues, or glitchy online physics. I hate to seem like i'm just picking on it, but these things 
 are the things that brought it down from a 10 to an 8.5 for me. Story is awesome, smart, funny, 
 and mature. They core gameplay is great and addictive, and if it doesn't crash, i'll play it for 
 the next 2 hours. 
  
  My machine btw, is a C2D e8400@3.0ghz 4GB ddr2 800 ram, gtx260-stock, 500gb HD and Vista 64 premium, 
 case is well cooled. 
  
  It also amazed me how CPU heavy this game was. OC my CPU from 3.0 to 3.4 gave me a 5 fps boost 
 in the bench. If I had better cooling, i'd OC further. OC'd or not, the game still gives me strange 
 glitches, flashing decals/textures, disappearing/reappearing textures sometimes. The flashing decals 
 are the worst cause they are incredibly noticeable.
  
  When its running well, its an awesome game with beautiful scenery and an immense open world to 
 shoot up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sorin_g
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2008 3:39 am PT
Review:  Performance
  I see a lot of people complaining about the performance. Well, it runs smoothly on my PC (Radeon 
 HD 4850, Intel E7200) with High details (an average of 35 FPS) . Since I have no reason to be frustrated 
 by technical issues, I will not insist on this.
  
  Graphics
  The game looks awesome, except for the creepy shadow filtering. R* worked a lot to make the game 
 look that good even on medium/low details (since everyone agreed that GTA 3 series did not have 
 top graphics) . The rain, fog and lighting effects (especially at night) are quite outstanding and 
 unexpected. The game physics are far beyond any other game on the market (that's why the CPU performance 
 is crucial in this game) , and the graphics does the job to illustrate it.
  
  Sounds
  Excellent for the previous GTA titles, the soundtrack remains quite impressive in GTA 4. The voice 
 acting is superb (and the facial animation too) - like expected. The various radio stations are 
 great and for all tastes. The talk-shows are funny and ironic, and the commercials are almost insane. 
 The new TV addition is also an interesting thing to spend your game time with.
  
  Liberty City
  The city looks more authentic than ever. Everything contributes to the town atmosphere, 
 the people, the cars, the police, the traffic conflicts, the fights, everything is designed so 
 credible and with high respect for details. There is so much to do in this town.
  
  Gameplay
  Well, this is where the game looks more serious than other GTA Games. There are no 
 more TheSims-like statistics, which some people (not me) may miss. The mobile phone is an excellent 
 addition and keeps you in touch with every friend. The leisure activities are fun, but not as diversified 
 as expected. Anyway, the virtual Internet is great, much fun and holds much irony against this 
 century's virtual strange habits. The big question mark is why the planes are not available anymore? 
 It is a terrible lack of gameplay from my point of view. Maybe a future add-on for this?
  
  Storyline
  The action is quite good quality. The characters are very well individualized and 
 memorable. The story is immersing, but some missions tend to repeat themselves and to become boring. 
 San Andreas was much more interesting from this point of view. Unfortunately, the story is the 
 only thing that keeps you connected to the game. You have the freedom to explore the city, but 
 well, there is not much to do except for the police fights. The city looks greater than ever, but 
 too bad there is not so much content as I expected. In the previous GTA games, there was plenty 
 to do after finishing the main story.
  
  Multiplayer
  I'm not a fan of online gaming so I was not tempted to test this feature yet.
  
  Conclusion
 
  GTA 4 is a big step forward for the series. The physical and graphic engines are quite brilliant, 
 the town looks excellent. Most of the childish features of the past have been removed and that 
 makes the game more serious, more mature (and for some people less fun) . My only regrets are the 
 lack of post-ending content and the lack of the airplanes. Anyway, R* did a great job with GTA 
 4 and, apart from some technical issues people complain about, I have to congratulate them for 
 a great PC title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deejay2deejay
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 13, 2008 1:32 am PT
Review:  SLI gtx280 (1st PC) & game runs like on 8800GTX (2nd PC) , pathetic. Some achivement can't be unlock 
 online (playing without codes) , like Chain Reaction, king of CUB3D, but on my sec. PC i can unlock 
 some, but i can't unlock another. patch should have fix to achivements. game crash every hour on 
 my 2 PCs. i got 15 fps sometimes on SLI gtx280. ths game see onlu 1GB memory but should see 2GB 
 couse i got SLI. Game is OK
  ........... .......... ......... .......... ......... ....... ........ ........ ......... ....... 
 ............ ........... .......... ......... .......... ......... ......... ...... ........ ......... 
 ........ ...........
  ........... .......... ......... .......... ......... ......... ...... ........ ......... ........ 
 ...........
  ........... .......... ......... .......... ......... ......... ...... ........ ......... ........ 
 ........... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baldyman6666
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 12, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Been a gta fanboy since it originally came out on the pc as a 2d top down action driver (yes that 
 is right console boyz - do your history)
  
  since then gta vice / san have been 'ok' ports ... but this is shocking
  it came out a while ago 
 that rockstar are only interested in making good console versions due to downloaded rips of the 
 game on torrents - and it shows
  
  in a bid to stop piracy they have gone windows live ... i. e you can only save ur progress if you 
 have 'live'
  
  lets break it down shall we - 
  
  windows live = internet connection
  no internet connection = no saves
  no saves = unplayable
  
  I LIVE ON A UK - AND ALONG WITH 
 40.000 PLUS SERVING PERSONNEL-MOST LIVING ON CAMPS WITHOUT INTERNET CONNECTION - THANKS ROCKSTAR!
 
  
  thanks also to 'gears of war' 'bioshock' 'half life 2' etc that use live
  
  ALL YOUR GAMES HAVE BEEN SENT BACK TO THE SHOP AND DOWNLOADED OFF TORRENTS - F$K YOU!
  
  just 
 like microsoft - you are actually hurting the buying public by your actions rather than the torrent 
 boys. 
  
  AND NO I AM NOT GOING TO BUY A PS3/XBOX JUST TO PLAY YOUR GAME WHEN MY PC IS FASTER THAN BOTH PUT 
 TOGETHER - WHY SHOULD I HAVE TO PAY FOR A CRAPPER VERSION. DISCRIMINATION AGAINST PC 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Waza19
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 12, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  that game is great, as usual rockstar made a sandbox games that surpass every other one out there 
 and has set a new benchmark for this kind of games, the story and cutscenes are just great, the 
 protagonist is charsmatic and funny and the gameplay is as enjoyable as every gta games was in 
 their time period.
  
  i can understand people being angry cause their computer isnt running this game well but it dosent 
 mean that this deserve a 1/10 neither a 5/10. its just the king of game that pc gamer bought an 
 expensive pc for, and i would be suprised if half of the reviews out there where made by people 
 who dont even know how to update their drivers.
  
  bottom line: this game is great, a must play for every sandbox type fanboy and, imo is worth getting 
 a pc that can run it, and if you have an expensive computer and you still cant play it a least 
 give rockstar some time to try and patch the game before going out to yell on the roof that gta 
 IV is the biggest treachery in pc gaming history 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vunkster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  The game finds you playing as Niko Bellic blargh blargh blargh if u would want to know the story 
 you would just read the gamespot review ,anyways.....
  
  good stuff:
  *video editor is easy to use and pretty awesome * fun game * the physics are awesome and work well* 
 more players can join certain multiplayer matches than console versions*
  
  bad stuff
  *slight problems with video editor, like not being able to put more songs than 1 with your video* 
 framerate is not very amazing, with a Q6600 2.4 ghz Quad Core, ati HD 4870 and 8 gigs ram and all 
 as high as you can put, you will get avarage framerate of 20 *only gamepad CURRENTLY supported 
 is an xbox 360 controller, but that will be fixed with the patch*
  
  If u have framerate problems, than for f! ck sakes just lower the score like 1-3 points of what 
 you would have put, these reviews should SERIOUSLY get deleted cuz they dont help the person hwo 
 thinks "should i buy the game or not?" anyways if u have the rig to handle this, even tho you have 
 the console version, it is DEFINENTLY worth gettting the pc version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sewer_21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  I don't really understand why does everybody criticize this game, because of the performance issue, 
 i don't know what you people expected from great graphics game that came out on PS3 and XBOX 360 
 first!! On my PC game runs smoothly at 40 fps, with all setting maxed up! I haven't noticed any 
 bugs that wouldn't have occurred on both PS3 and XBOX 360. The game is excellent but it don't have 
 as much customizations items that SA had, lack of places to see in such live city and places to 
 take our "girlfriend" :) witch is a little disappointing!
  
  Don't think that poor customizations could lower the grade witch i am giving to this game, so a 
 9.5 is a perfect score for this game, and could only expect that Rockstar will release a patch 
 to disable all the bugs and adding some new things to the game!
  
  Peace! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pecone_Penev
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 12, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  Thank god I didn't spend money on that game. A friend of mine got it and gave it to me to try it. 
 First thing I noticed is that the game is on 2dvd's-the instalation took long enough and after 
 it was done I was out 16GB from my HDD. What the hell??? Then it asks you to install some kind 
 of Rockstarr club or something and windows live application so yuo can save your game online (if 
 you can play it) .
  I am starting the game and.... laaaaaaaaaagggggg! I wouldn't be surpised if My PC was peace of 
 sh*t but it isn't: MSI K9N Diamnod, Amd Athlon64x2 5600+ 2.8ghz, Dual channel 4GB DDR2 800mhz, 
 Ati Radeon HD 4870 512MB GDDR5 and Vista Ultimate 64bit. On that PC the coupdn't run nice enough 
 so I can enjoy it. I am playing Crysis on enthusiast for god's sake!
  The graphicas is okay-but not as nearly as good enough for the system requirments.
  I played 
 the game for a couple of minutes-nothing really new. I really liked the way they made NY in the 
 game.
  The car driving is abysmal. Whoever created that was complete moron and had no idea how driving 
 a car in GTAIV is. 
  The game has a lot of issues and I wouldn't recommend it to anyone except maybe 5% of the gamers 
 who can afford to spend $6000 on a Alienware monster PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeadCannon
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 12, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  Let`s be honest here. The people who voted this game perfect 10s and 9s either haven`t played it 
 themselves, or only played it on a console.
  It`s fun, addicting, immersive and all those things. But GOOD GOD, it hasn`t optimised at all. 
 They either completely ignored what`s under the "hood" (PCs don`t use resources the same way PCs 
 do) or their testers are goddamn idiots.
  Period.
  
  All I wanna know is, what the hell were they thinking when they released this shoddy port?
  
 
  Even on the lowest bloody settings, on the lowest bloody resolution, this game runs like poo even 
 on the most powerful PCs.
  
  Ridiculous, that`s all I can say.
  Seriously, even a PC with the power of 3 PS3s and 3 360s couldn`t run this game proper on the lowest 
 settings possible.
  
  Rushed job to "please" the PC crowd and get some more money out of our pockets, that`s all it is. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordoflol
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 12, 2008 4:15 am PT
Review:  GTA 4 on the pc feels just like other ports, its buggy, controls are awkward and bound too crash 
 from time too time.
  
  The story is somewhat intereseting and fun, but you have seen it before. Imigrant comes too USA 
 with high hopes and dreams but get chrushed by reality,
  
  The controls are awkward and somewhat not responsive, graphics are good and shiny, but unless got 
 an monster of an pc its bound too dissapoint. The car controls are "realistic" but it feels like 
 you are driving an bus more a car but with some training it pieces together. 
  
  Combat is well... been there done that, its kinda GOW like with cover and all but you ain`t suposed 
 too play it behind an brick wall.
  
  The fuzz is too easy too get away from, but not as moronic as the prequel games. But its fun when 
 it dosent freeze and crash, and you grow adept too the controls over time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IJI
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  This, in my opinion is one of the best gta games released on pc so far. Granted there is no support 
 for a pad but hey, do you want to just be pressing to buttons and killing a gang full of enemies? 
 wheres the fun in that. It's much more satisfying having to use the mouse aim and headshot some 
 motherF****rs. 
  
  Also for those of you saying you need a super rig to run this game my system is regular price - 
 800 pounds!!!! and it runs gta smoooth as S**T with everything as maxed as it can be. i see that 
 alot of the people giving these bad reviews seem to be complaining about installing the game and 
 not being able to run. 
  
  OBVIOUSLY these people are not pc gamers as with a bit of common sense it can be installed fine 
 - read the instructions thats what they're there for. Also i bet they're trying to run the game 
 with chipset graphics. 
  
  MY RIG:
  C2D E8500 @ 4.05 GHZ
  Gigabyte x48-DQ6
  4x 1GB kingston hyper x @1100mhz
  Sapphire ati 4850
  Vista 64 bit
  
  obviously i have hardrive 
 and dvd drive but thats irrelevant 
  either way i was set back about 800 pounds 
  you dont exactly need to be rich to afford that now do you???
  
  UPGRADE AND FIX YOUR REVIEWS!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotbodyboy_2006
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 12, 2008 2:18 am PT
Review:  Man, what's wrong with the PC Ports these days. The last Good PC Port that i played was Devil May 
 Cry 4.
  
  Don't get me wrong, the Xbox360 and PS3 versions of GTA IV are really great and i would have given 
 it surely a good rating. But i don't own a Console because i am a hardcore PC Gamer.
  
  I got this game and it won't even START on my PC. So pathetic. Its an insult to the PC Gamers. 
 Seriously you are not making some Naruto Port.
  
  You are making a GTA port. Rockstar...... don't you realize how many people including me were literally 
 Counting Days for this game. And over that Gamespot gives this Garbage a 9.0!
  
  Puhless....
  
  Anyways, you need to have a REALLY REALLY Hot Rig to play this. If you don't 
 Believe me, go to srtestDOTcom and check GTA IV.
  
  It says Minimum Requirement : Core 2 Quad........ When the HELL did a Quad Core become a Minimum 
 Requirement for any game. Also graphics for GTA IV aren't as great as MGS 4 or Gears Of War 2 or 
 even Prince Of Persia for that matter.
  
  Don't Buy this game for the PC. Instead do what i am gonna do. Either get a PS3 or an Xbox360 and 
 then BUY GTA IV. Then it will be enjoyable.
  
  Thanks for reading my review. Now i will be back to playing One Of The Best PC Ports Of All Time 
 - Prince Of Persia........ Heck all Ubisoft PC Ports are great. Learn something Rockstar...... Next 
 time you either DON'T make a GTA for the PC or if you make one, atleast DUMB DOWN the requirements 
 like EA did for Dead Space. Then it will be playable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marvelous211
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  This game seems to be 75% complete and released quickly to the PC scene before Christmas to bank 
 on Christmas sales it seems. As ROCKSTAR is about to release their first patch right after the 
 release with direct input controller support which they should have included with the shipping 
 product.
  
  The game has no direct input support other than xbox 360 controller. Performance is on the low 
 side considering the performance without AA is hovering 15-30fps on medium settings with my system. 
 Did I mention there is no AA support? AA support in a 75% driving game like GTA is a must. 
  
  This game is more demanding than Crysis as I can play Crysis @ high detail and still pull over 
 30fps average. I haven't really started playing the game other than driving around and getting 
 myself familiar with the city because without proper controller support the game is not fun trying 
 to drive and shoot with a keyboard.
  
  Over all huge improvements over GTA 3 series like GTA, Vice City, and San Andreas. The game has 
 been vastly improved but not without paying a huge penalty. The game requires powerful rig to get 
 some kind of smoothness. Quad core is a must and a GPU with 1gig of vram really helps for higher 
 textures. What I don't get is why the xbox version is looking tiny bit better than my system and 
 still pulling more fps? I can only guess is that the game hasn't properly optimized for the PC 
 version. On the bright side the PC version can adjust higher levels of detail but without a future 
 system these settings are quite useless for almost everyone.
  
  If Rockstar up the performance by a notch. Another 10fps average, AA support, and direct input 
 support this game could have been a perfect 10.
  
  
  Statistics
  Average FPS: 37.49
  Duration: 37.13 sec
  CPU Usage: 96%
  System memory usage: 77%
  Video memory usage: 98%
 
  
  Graphics Settings
  Video Mode: 1440 x 900 (60 Hz)
  Texture Quality: Medium
  Render Quality: Medium
  View Distance: 19
  Detail Distance: 35
  
  My system
  E6300 @ 
 3.0ghz
  3 gigs of pc2-6400
  8800gs @ 730/1836/1060
  Vista 32
  
  The benchmark is very optimistic. In real GTA world I'm really pulling 15-30fps. Low 20fps average.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 88m10
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 11, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Havn't encountered a technical nightmare like this in about ten years. First the game is unplayable, 
 plagued with program loops, crashes and poor performance and second, windows sp3 required for the 
 game to even work, had crippled my pc. So it looks like im out another $50 plus the time spent 
 rolling everything back before sp3. 
  
  So, not only do i have to wait for a patch for GTA4 but, also sp3. I might not be able to play 
 this game for months. Which means i'll be wait til after Xmas for some patch to come along. This 
 really puts a damper on my holiday.
  
  I use to think buying games, over downloading a shared copy was the right thing to do. Situations 
 like this really make me regret spending money on these games. This is the second game this winter 
 i have that, i payed full price and can't play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ygskills
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 11, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  This game... supposed to be one of the greatest games, is not playable. I don't know how many of 
 those filthy rich people have their $3000 computers, but I don't. Even if I had $3000, I don't 
 think I'd spend it on a computer. So, given the assumption that not so many people have such rigs, 
 this game is a total disaster. How can I give anything higher than 1.0 when I can't even play the 
 game? It's not the graphics is so astonishing that the computer can't handle it. It's just like 
 GTA SA, but with extreme lagggg. The PC version of GTA SA was great, but this? Well, you know the 
 answer. I'm kind of thinking about buying xbox 360 and be done with these pc disasters. Well, xbox 
 360 is only 200 bucks, and my video card itself was worth more than that. I'd suggest don't waste 
 your money on the pc version, but for those with rigs worth 3 grand, indulge yourselves! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frnuno
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  Im 28 years old and getting tired of the gaming scene.
  Most titles that i install at the moment end up uniinstalled after a couple of hours due to simple 
 boredom of playn the old conceps over and over.
  
  GTA IV is the kind of game i was waiting for.
  
  Great, great caracters and story around them. 
 This is the only game i can remember since the 16bit titles that im acctualy interested in the 
 cut scenes.
  Missions ca get a litthe repetitive, but theres allways some twist to make them encouraging.
 
  The speech is very funny and i found myself lauthing a lot of times (wich is fantastic) . Not talking 
 just about the cutscenes... even when you run over pedestrians, kill them, make phonecalls, acces 
 to the internet (in the game) , all has this black humour that i just love.
  The audio and speech really adds to the experience.
  Animations are good, but AI tens to be a 
 little slow.
  When running over pedestrians they arent that efective at saving their lives, when doing a mission 
 with a friend, he will be slow to adapt to your acctions and even the cops feel like "2 star dumb", 
 and" 3 star furtive", not a very balanced steping.
  Most games dont even have this deph to them so this is all good in the end. 
  
  Cruisin around 
 with no objective can be fun!!
  
  Running the game on a Q6600 3.2, 2Gb 1066 and HD4850 OC.
  1280, med, very hi, 40-50-50-3.
  
 Runs great, excelent graphics for a living dense world, not just some stage! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l_eeburgess
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 4:59 am PT
Review:  I know lots of people have had problems getting this game to run, and then when they have it hasnt 
 run very well. For that Rockstar should be ashamed of their rushed release and I make no excuses 
 for them.
  However, other than the MMA10 error associated with Social Club, I have had not a single other 
 error happen and have it running well, so having played the game now for 61 hours, both on and 
 offline, I can safely say that this game is fantastic.
  I'd like to dispell the Gamespot review here. They state that the game plays better with a 360 
 pad. Complete rubbish. I have a 360 pad, I hate it with a passion. I prefer to use a Logitech Cordless 
 Rumblepad 2, basically a PS3 styled pad. However at this moment the pad is not compatible with 
 the game so I am using keyboard and mouse. After using this control method for all this time I 
 can now drive much much better by adjusting the camera with the mouse to see ahead or around corners 
 I am going to go around, try doing that with the 360 pad, you'll have no chance. Also shooting 
 and generally walking around, much much better with keyboard and mouse, and far far more accurate 
 and satisfying. Tell me, whats the point in using the pad when it just locks on to the enemies, 
 theres no aiming to be done, just press 2 buttons and the enemy is dead, what exactly is the point 
 in that?!? Gamespot are primarily a console games site and have always bashed PC games and hardware 
 in favour of consoles.
  The main lifespan in this game lies in the online mode, and it does not disappoint. There are loads 
 of game modes, all of them are great to play and most importantly they are fun. Take Mafiya Work 
 for example. You get phone calls from The Boss giving you jobs to do, you then have to go and do 
 the job, competing against all the other players. Great fun.
  Its easy and quick to get into an online game too.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xDj1nn
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 11, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  Incredible, really, GTA IV for console for me was a 5.0 to 6.0 game, since they've put no options 
 for customization in the game and the most cool thing added at SA was that... They could at least 
 allow you to buy cars in-game by the internet or something, but you can't. Any way, they've manage 
 to launch PC version almost 1 year after the console versions and it's a port made by a lazy team 
 for shure.
  
  You need a inexistent PC config to play it with a high FPS, the Car graphics are incrediblely realistic, 
 but, the rest just suck... Oh and they've managed to put incredible lights too, that we should 
 applaud. Performance is a crap due to a bad port for PC from X360, wich probably is caused by C# 
 coding wich is slow and "heavy" for PC and smoot for X360 as far as I've learned.
  Also, peaple with the original version is recurring to the crack made by hackers to bypass securROM 
 cuz it lags even more then the game by it self.
  
  About the game's story, well, it's the same god damn thing from the other GTA games, a guy who 
 came from no-where and become the most god damn perfect criminal in the world. I've not finnished 
 the game yet, so I can't tell the end, but I guess you end rich and beeing the most great criminal 
 in LC and you find the guy u're looking for and kill him or discover the truth you're looking for... 
 The only difference is that the main character is from Europe and have a funny accent.
  
  But, the most funny thing is that the GameSpot guy who made the official GS review gave it 9.0, 
 maybe he was paid by R*? This game can't pass 6.0, seriously... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mark_andrae
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2008 1:37 am PT
Review:  The install procedure was a long and exhausting process. But I don't review the install procedure 
 but the game. I read many reviews of people who have problems with the performance. Luckily, I 
 don't have those problems with my NVidia 8800 GTX. I can set de view distance at 64 without big 
 performance problems.
  
  I also have the PS3 version and I have to admit the PC version is superior to the console version. 
 The graphics and view distance are so much better. I also really enjoy driving and shooting with 
 the keyboard + mouse. 
  
  I played all GTA games (also on the PSP) and this game is the second best GTA game for me. San 
 Andreas is still my favorite but I think GTA IV is the most complete game so far. 
  
  I really hope that R* will solve the technical problems for the people who are giving very bad 
 reviews. And most of all, I really hope this won't be the last GTA game for the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTAIVcool
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  Awhile ago, when the X360 and PS3 version came out, and there was no sign of a Pc release, i didn't 
 worry. I knew that R* wouldn't let us down. Well, they didn't. In one way or another. GTAIV on the PC 
 is remarkable, and fun to play, but the constant lag, and issues with online content make it difficult 
 to realize. The high requriments for the game are by far the biggest i've ever seen, and whatever 
 the R* reps say, this game is not "future proof". It's a proof that R* Toronto knows nothing about 
 the needs of gamers and porting. And the rumored 200K protection is also a throw out the window. I 
 had no problems with LIVE what so ever, but if i'm logged into Social Club, a black screen welcomes 
 me after the GTAIV intro sign, and i need to reboot my machine. Sometimes there is no problem, and 
 Social Club behaves and one can play the multiplayer easily. And trust me, that's fun ;) Achievements 
 also make the game better, glad that LIVE brought it to the PC too. I would be more optimistic if 
 i was knew for sure that Rockstar can fix this game. An overhaul is needed, and not a small one. This 
 game deserves double the score i gave it today. If it, if Rockstar want's that score, they WILL need 
 to work for it. I'm ready to give this game another chance, and i'm glad i bought it. My advice is: Go 
 buy something for your loved ones for christmas. Now, GTAIV isn't worth the money, or the effort. The 
 time will come and those future proof machines will be out there somewhere :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twistedboy
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I can now play and am enjoying GTAIV PC
  
  I updated my graphics drivers and deployed the patch from Rockstar and it is working.
  
  I 
 give the game a 10 for fun and a 1 for the installation nightmare and gameplay bugs out of the 
 box (or in my case "Steam") for an overall score of 5.5 ... Oh, and still curious if anyone has 
 ever received a refund from Steam for any reason?
  
  ORIGINAL POST:
  I have a brand new Gateway laptop that plays S. T. A. L. K. E. R. and Bioshock perfectly. I cannot get 
 GTA IV to load textures. So it is unplayable. I reviewed this game a couple weeks ago saying the 
 same thing and just got a letter from Gamespot telling me I had violated their TOS. (I have no 
 idea why, they did not tell me any specifics... very strange) They removed my review, so am posting 
 it again. Maybe they feel I do not have a right to review a game that I cannot get to run? I guess 
 that is a point, however, I just want to warn anyone with a Gateway FX laptop with 8800M GTS NVIDIA 
 GeForce Go graphics card that you also may not be able to run the game. You will not see any textures. 
 I bought the game on Steam, has anyone ever had success getting a refund from them? By the way, 
 I have always played and enjoyed all previous GTA games for the PC. Was looking forward to this 
 one. I will keep my fingers crossed for Mafia 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yianniscy84
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 11, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  I bought GTA with high expectations but my computer which plays Far Cry 2 in highest setting couldn't 
 handle GTA in high resolution and textures. The installation took a long time and installed Rockstar 
 Social Network. WTF? Games companies should stop bloating their games with such useless add on 
 programs that do nothing special. But the worst thing of all is the car handling. What the developers 
 were thinking when they put such stupid controls. You press break and after 1 minute the car stops. 
 And don't try to press handbreak because the car seems to slide like it is ice skating. This game 
 had potential but it doesn't live up too the expectations I had. I reviewed this game with 1 because 
 it is just plain disappointing. The graphics are good but not stunning.
  It is clear that Rocstar just rushed the game to be out before Christmas so the can sell more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silent_espy
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  GTA IV is a gd game if you can get it to run smoothly, unfortunately 60% of gamers aren't able 
 to get it to run flawlessly and to its full potential making it a terrible and poorly optimized 
 port. I had the console version and enjoyed it much more than this stuttering and spattering piece 
 of crap. It's simply unplayable even if you exceed the minimum requirements (you need a quad core 
 nothing less to be able to run it flawlessly) . 
  
  Got sick of the performance after just 10 mins into the game and decided to shelf it. Considering 
 I could run crysis and cod: waw at high settings and the graphics in those games are much better 
 than this. If you don't have a quad core the game plays like someone who just beat his salami a 
 100 times and cant walk properly. Unless you enjoy seeing Niko driving like hes jerking off pls 
 buy this game if not get the console version it'll save you lots of frustration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morechebba
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  trust me this is one of the best games of 2008. top visuals, ingrossing story which makes you feel 
 for niko and his bumbling cousin roman. top class online play with loads of different game modes 
 and downloadable content coming in 2009 for the 360, this is one hell of a ride. I did find this 
 the main story quit easy there are a few momments that are tough but compared to past games its 
 a doddle. saying that on my first play througth i got about 40 hours from the game and i still have 
 5o hidden packages or should i say flying rats and all the super jumps left to find so this game 
 will give you plenty of banfg for your buck. If you are thinking of buying it i would go for the 
 360 version because theres loads of technical issues with the pc version plus the ps3 willnot be 
 getting the dlc next year its called the lost and the dammned its out in febuary and will cost 
 800 points. it centers on a new character called johnny kerbitz wh is a biker that rolls with the 
 liberty city biker gang the lost and is shaping up to be a blast. so if you love gta or purly just 
 looking for a awesome story with loads of laughs ,tears and action .go buy this game you wont be 
 dissapointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13ozzy
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2008 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Few month after the console release, GTA IV arrives to the PC. And unsurprisingly it is a Masterpiece. 
 Gameplay is a usual mix of money, murder, and dark humor; and that's great because its the formula 
 that all of us love and enjoy. R* played it safe, and didn't do a lot of changes, but of all the 
 changes they did the biggest one is the buddy system. This means that during the main story you 
 will be meeting people that will become your friends. R* did a great job because most of Niko's 
 friends are very likable, and each one has a unique character. Too bad that interaction with them 
 is limited by gameplay. It goes like this: 1) Make (or get) a phone call from a friend to hang 
 out. 2) Go pick him up.
  3) Take him "somewhere he would enjoy". (There's a variety of places to go, like a restaurants, 
 bars, balling alley etc.)
  4) And when your done, take him home.
  
  That's it... and this process repeats every time. Same system applies to your girl friend. If they 
 like you enough, they provide you with a number of useful "services", some can restore your health, 
 some can get rid of your wanted level, and some can get you weapons. Buddy system is the Biggest 
 new part of the gameplay, but its not the best one. The best one is your cell phone, because you 
 can customize it to your liking, and its also extremely useful. You can call for a cab, if you 
 don't want to drive, you can call 911 just for fun. You can organize dates, but its most useful 
 function is ZIT. When your listening to the radio in a car, and you hear a track that you like, 
 you can call ZIT, and find out the name of the song and the artist. The game is full of things 
 like that, and they all add to the experience. Now that GTA is on a new engine you would expect 
 for cars to handle like shopping trolleys full of rocks. But no, even though the new engine made 
 cars handle more realistic, you still have that GTA San Andreas floaty feel to them. Cars do understeer 
 and oversteer, and when the road is wet, they simply fail to steer, but they are still fun to drive. 
 Its good that driving is fun because you spent most of the game doing exactly that.
  
  Missions are a usual mix of driving and "teaching somebody a lesson". Even though most of the missions 
 are exactly the same, they don't feel repetitive. R* added a special twist to every mission to 
 make each one feel unique.
  
  The game hasn't lost its sense of humor either. But this time its a bit more serious then its predecessors. 
 And that is what i miss. I loved San Andreas for its stupid jokes, and CJ's comments on anything 
 he did. That was sometimes the thing that kept me playing. This time the story kept me up at night. 
 As you already head you heard, you play as Niko Belic, an illegal emigrant, who comes to Liberty 
 City, because his cousin Roman promised him money, cars and women. And strait away you understand 
 that everything your cousin told you is a big load of ****, and that you have to climb a huge mountain 
 of corpses and stolen cars to get to the top. I don't want to spoil anything for you, but believe 
 me, its something. So as you can see the game is Great. Great gameplay, Great story, Great details. 
 BUT...
  Things start to go down hill. System Req. are of the scale, even most powerful rigs can't run it 
 on max. Game was a rush job so it does feel like a port. A lot of people have experienced serious 
 technical difficulties, down to the point when people could even install. And the list goes on.
 
  
  So, conclusion. Well GTA IV is like Angelina Jolie, we all know she's an environmentalist, and 
 a vegetarian but if she would ask you out, would you say "No"? :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pasindumalintha
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  this game is full of fun..... great gameplay...... brilliant graphics......... Interactive Environment........ Nice 
 Storyline........... but please dnt use old weak machines to play dis game........ and after some 
 idiots do that they keep blaming rockstar and even gamespot telling that they ve overrated the 
 game......
  dis game is so not overrated......... t deserves a 10 in my opinion................. . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . 
  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . 
  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . 
  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . 
  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . 
  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . 
  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . 
  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . 
  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KottiUK
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  So, finally the day comes that you can play GTA IV on your PC, and cause mayhem around Liberty 
 City once more. But wait, the game won't run properly... 
  
  There are lots of great things about this game, but as with all good things there are bad things! 
 So I'll begin with them first. Put simply, the game requires a pretty hefty spec. A lot of needless 
 tinkering is required in order to get the most out of the game which means sacrificing some of 
 the games spectacular graphics. The game can crash at random if the graphics options aren't set 
 correctly for your system, which I'm sure you'll agree can be a real pain. So you've managed to 
 get round the initial hurdle, what's the game actually like?! Well I can quite easily say it is 
 one of the most ambitious games I've ever played. From the opening credits, straight away you can 
 see a lot of work has gone into every aspect of it.
  
  Although the story is the main driving force behind the experience, you can take the story at your 
 own pace. There's so much to do in Liberty City you can easily spend hours driving around, browsing 
 the internet, dating girls, doing hit jobs, even kill pigeons if you want. The great thing about 
 GTA IV is that you can pretty much play it however you want to. If you're one of these people who 
 want to play a chaotic game and race through the story - you can. On the other hand, if you'd rather 
 sit back, relax and take in all the beautiful views (there are a lot) , then there's really nothing 
 stopping you. 
  
  The story and its characters are the best there's ever been in the history of GTA. Thanks to an 
 amazing graphics engine, you really get to see the emotion in the characters this time round, which 
 really pulls you in, and actually care about the people you're working for or told to kill - which 
 will affect the various important decisions you have to make throughout. 
  
  The multiplayer works really well. There are a lot of different game modes, and even a police vs. 
 mobs mode which is fun. One of the best modes is the free roam, where a group of friends can get 
 together and cause as much chaos as possible across the whole of Liberty City - it really can't 
 get any better than that.
  
  Despite its flaws, GTA IV really is worth playing regardless of what genre of game you're into. 
 The experience it gives you is like no other, and one that you can be proud to say you were part 
 of. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smartsurf
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  TECHNICAL
  
  I don't have a super machine, but the game is relatively smooth, so the low ratings from people 
 who have technical difficulties is surprising, accept when you consider that the minimum specs 
 on the game require a dual core processor, which many people do not yet own, but bought the game 
 anyway. So the criticisms are more from people who are DISAPPOINTED that the game is a next-gen 
 dual-core game - I would be pissed too, but when you've been playing computer games as long as 
 I have (30 years) , there is always some game that will come out that forces you to wait until you 
 get a new PC (can you say, Falcon 4.0!) Now GTAIV has set the bar for single core players to upgrade 
 their rigs to the current state of the art in order to play (I understand the anger, but this will 
 not be the last time. It's how the game industry drives computer sales.
  
  Many are having problems with game crashes and poor performance because they missed the minimum 
 requirements (It crashed on me too until I updated my computer with:
  
  .NET 3.5
  XP Service Pack 3
  
  I have a dual core 2.1 ghz, 4gb ram, Nvidia 8800 GTS (320mb - not even 
 512mb) and it runs smooth.
  
  To force decent graphics create a file called commandline. txt in main GTAiV directory and cut and 
 paste the following:
  
  -nomemrestrict -norestrictions -novblank -percentvidmem 100 -renderquality 4 -shadowdensity 16 
 -detailquality 99 -texturequality 1
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: valyvr
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  The game itself is great (story, missions, atmosphere, etc) BUT... the tehnical issues bring it 
 down!! Lucky for me i bought a new pc a few months ago just before buying this game, but all the 
 games released this year run very very good except... this one! WTF? I got E8500 cpu and 9800GTX+ 
 512MB with 3.5gb of ram and i get 20-40 FPS with default details that look like crap?! GREAT! The 
 game looks and moves like hell which is UNACCEPTABLE!
  
  Except for the stupid crashes (securom hah? you can shoot the person who came up with that idea 
 of implementing it) and FPS issues, there are the annoying stuff like GFWL ( WTF is this crap anyway?! 
 I just wanna play the game, not log in into some  
 microsoft service that's totally useless) and don't forget the R* social club (again... is this 
 was really necessary?! the in-game recording videos is nice, but the login is NOT!!!)
  
  I paid good for this game because I was a big fan of GTA series and had a good opinion about R* 
 and the quality they deliver, but after this... next time (if there will be one) i'm gonna wait until 
 a demo or something is available for testing before spending money on crap! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: interpolation7
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 10, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  I really, really had high hopes for this game. I've never yet had any problems with any new pc 
 game except this one. Fallout3, Crysis, COD4, for example run smooth as silk with no issues. This 
 game was ported to PC very prematurely and it shows with installation problems, horrible framerates, 
 and graphical glitches. 
  
  Installation Nightmares:
  Where to start? First the DVD autorun must be set to windows xp sp2 compatibility mode just to 
 install on Vista SP1 otherwise you get, and i quote, an error message saying 'Cannot install on 
 windows %P'. Whats %P? Once the game is finally installed you must run the game executables in 
 Windows 2000 compatibility mode to get it to run. No other option works. Otherwise you get an error 
 message stating 'Fatal Error RMN20'. Once that problem is fixed you have to change the compatibility 
 mode for every other exe file in the installation directory EXCEPT rgsc. exe or you get a new crash: 
 'RGSC. exe has stopped responding'... If it werent for google and user discussion forums no one 
 would have a working copy of this game. 
  
  Framerate Issues
  My PC gets 11400 3dmarks in 3dmark06 and I found no matter what my resolution or selected graphics 
 options nothing would remove the chop (even tweaking game-level quality options in Nvidia control 
 panel) . This coming from other games where I can run my native resolution of 1680x1050 with FSAA 
 and FSAF cranked its left me a little P. O. After reading a few forums I found even people on SLI 
 rigs are having the same problem. 
  
  Worse still.. Graphical anomalies. Did rockstar even try a installation and trial run of this game 
 on at least one test system? Clearly this is an indication that rockstars main goal was immediate 
 profit by rushing this pc port of a console game at the expense of their valued customers. Im assuming 
 their theory was: 'Who cares we can just patch it later on' Wasting entire nights of john doe consumer 
 troubleshooting and writing their woes in forums and reading discussion groups'. Just look at gamespots 
 ratings. A 10 out of 10 game getting 7? For shame such an excellent game has gone to waste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: k0r3aN_pR1d3
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Initially, I had some problems with the game, mostly dealing with FPS and some odd error code. 
 But, after that, loaded it, and here I was, back in Liberty City, except on the PC. 
  
  There was an FPS issue while running the game on my E8400 for primary benchmarks to determine the 
 performance. I decided then to swap in my Core i7 920 + X58 motherboard (all the other parts the 
 same) , and right away, the game just ran much more smoothly. 
  
  On my E8400, my CPU load went up as high as 50-70% (yikes!) , but on the Core i7, it would never 
 go up beyond 25-28%. Also, my total frame rate went up from a measly 18 average to a cool 38, which 
 is definitely playable. 
  
  
  I've determined that the majority of performance issues are resulting from the operation of Dual 
 Cores for the game. Dual cores, while faster than quad cores, still only have 2 processing units. 
 Grand Theft Auto 4 needs as much power as it can get, along with bandwith. 
  
  So before you critique this game, try critiquing your computer first. Does it have enough juice 
 to run the game fluently? And compare it to an Xbox 360 or PS3. A Xbox 360 has 3 processing cores 
 and the PS3 has 8. Obviously, that one core lacking that you have is making a big difference in 
 terms of performance.
  
  
  Apart from that, the game is fun as usual, and I can't wait for the infamous mods that will be 
 landing. 
  
  
  Some of you might be mad that you'll have to pay money to upgrade, but really, if you think about 
 it, if you are running a 2 year old processor, don't you think you should at least give the Quad's 
 some thought now? Multithreaded games are here, and Grand Theft Auto 4 is just one of the many 
 PC games that will be so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irwanj
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 11:22 am PT
Review:  so.. a 9.0 on the game..
  well everyone knows that it's buggy, crappy drm laden install, mostly unplayable on "general population 
 pc"..
  
  i got amd x2 4800+,2gb pc6400 corsair ram, his ati 4650 512mb ddr3,320gb hd and the specs probably 
 equal or better than our console counterparts (xbox and ps3) , at least on 1024x768.. my comp ran 
 cod4 and 5, bioshock, fallout 3, etc very playably on medium to high settings, no lag on 40-60fps.. but 
 here.. our long awaited sequel "port" to pc.. barely ran on 21fps with all settings low (view distance, detail, 
 everything on 1) on 800x600?? the most dissapointing port ever got 9.0? i think im losing my faith 
 on gamespot pc reviewer here..
  
  i've been counting on gamespot on reviews since about mid 90's when greg kasavan was the main contributor 
 on reviews.. those were the times when review was satisfyingly unbiased by hype and such.. even the 
 best games at that time are scored 8 to low 9, unlike gamespot console's almost always perfect 
 10 on every game with hype (ff series, square soft made games, metal gear series etc) ..
  
  but now.. it seems like.. because it's a sequel to game of the year, it's an expansion from the gigantic 
 publisher that always seems to bring the best games.. score range never goes below 8 or even 9..
 
  
  now it's disappointing for me to count on gamespot review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bjeck
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  Ok, i'm first gonna start of with listing the pro's and con's, and then a deeper explanation afterwards..
 
  
  PRO's: Awesome well-written story. Believe-able deep characters. Many possibilities, also after 
 finishing main questline. Multiplayer is great!
  
  CON's: A little annoying that you must be on Windows Live, AND rockstar social club to play online. 
 Some bugs, espcially graphically.
  
  So, first to know about this game, is that it is required with a good PC, and the system requirements, 
 are supposed to be taken VERY seriously, and i recommend to not buy this game, if you haven't passed, 
 or are very close to passing the RECOMMENDED requirements. 
  
  Then, about the game itself....
  
  It is AWESOME, fun, great, immense, well-written, I think 
 you get me...
  The entire world you run around in, just makes you wanna pause the game, and just look at the awesome 
 scenery.
  You can really do alot of stuff, and there is variety, even if you do the same quest, for example 
 i did a quest, there was a conversation in the car, then i died, redid the mission, and there was 
 a totally different conversation! Nice...
  You can also eat on restaurants, go to bars, do shopping, see shows, and more.. and its different 
 every time...
  
  Ok, the only real problem i've had, was that I couldn't play multiplayer, before the day after 
 I got it, because of some rockstar social club problems, but then i just played singleplayer until 
 then... no real problem... oh and also some some graphical bugs, and small minor framerate-issues, 
 but only when something crazy happened on screen, nothing more...
  I also think that many people overreact when they are talking about the graphical bugs in this 
 game.. ok i can understand it, when they cant even play, for example ive heard that you cant play 
 it when you have SLI, and also something with ATI graphic cards, but i bet this will be fixed by 
 a patch...
  
  So i dont really think the problem is the game itself, its more the human tendency to overreact..
 
  
  But if you've got the computer for it, you almost be stupid not to try it... definetly... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaoSXDemon
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 10, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto has always been a game that focus on an unique story line and that was what captured 
 all the original fans. However, what was special about this piece is that it didn't need much to 
 run on a PC. Now comes along Grand Theft Auto 4 and it is, believe me, a piece of hard alien rock 
 that hardly any PC can handle within reasonable set up specifications. Now I understand many people 
 have already said this, but I am going to maybe extend this a little bit more: Think about GTA 
 4 in the console versions: XBOX 360, PS3. All those run perfectly fine with no problem. But, given 
 that a console is only a mid-range powerful PC. Now a high-end PC can't even run GTA 4 in highest 
 settings?!?!?!?!?!?!!?!?!?? Makes no sense. Only explanation? Poor programming styles and bad optimization 
 of algorithms they used to make the game; and here are some I've observed from the game but not 
 verified in the source code since I don't have it: 
  
  1. Memory leaks - Noob mistakes in programming that either leave dangling pointers or did not use 
 "free () " to free up memory space that are not needed - making run-time stack full or mostly full. 
 
  
  2. Poor game data structure design and algorithms - they probably did not spent enough time to 
 develop a run-time efficient data structure and algorithm. Specifically, I suspect that Rock-Star 
 did not use divide-and-conquer (recursion) as much as they should of have, and instead they used 
 mainly iteration (loops) which made a significant impact on CPU usage. 
  
  3. Glitchy Textures - Sometimes when the camera is quickly turned (like swing your mouse quickly) 
 textures are not properly loaded at some angles! In fact, they are not loaded at some angles leaving 
 a colored polygon surface.
  
  4. Film-grain like shadows - The shadows are drawn onto any surface with bad quality! I think this 
 might be a round-off error used in the implementation of the render-er. 
  
  I know the game's story is capturing and the game plays have been improved ALOT compared to the 
 last game. However, all these software performance issues are simply unbearable and unforgivable. 
 I mean RockStart has only an average game engine to begin with compared to CryEngine 2, and they 
 are forcing "good quality" on a poor engine and noob programmers. Lastly, here is my bench mark 
 for GTA 4... and my System can run Crysis at 1680X1050 with 8XAA and V-Sycn with everything on High 
 setting (no ultra high cuz don't have dx10)
  
  Statistics
  Average FPS: 35.33
  Duration: 37.33 sec
  CPU Usage: 88%
  System memory usage: 49%
  Video memory usage: 79%
 
  
  Graphics Settings
  Video Mode: 1680 x 1050 (60 Hz)
  Texture Quality: Medium
  Render Quality: Very High
  View Distance: 46
  Detail Distance: 100
  
  Hardware
  Microsoft 
 Windows XP Professional
  Service Pack 3
  Video Adapter: ATI Radeon HD 4800 Series
  Video Driver version: 6.14.10.6879
  Audio Adapter: Realtek HD Audio output
  Intel Pentium III 
 Xeon processor
  
  File ID: benchmark. cli
  
  which Crysis is only using 60 - 70% of CPU -.- this is stupid.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinijax
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 6:00 am PT
Review:  First of all, the city being alive is nothing new, the pedestrians running away, jumping, people 
 doing stuff... we've seen it all before. There are some improvements, but nothing like the next 
 gen game this was supposed to be. Still no walking into any buildings, still plenty of loading 
 time. Now I don't know what the criteria is for scoring games here at gamespot, but I'm getting 
 the feeling like scores are relative, to how good other games are at the moment. And because the 
 gaming industry is pumping the shelves with shallow crap, and nothing lives up to the hype lately, 
 all games that stand out a little are Editor's choice... GTA IV does have a above average storyline 
 and the graphics are nice if you can run the game on 1980x1200 with textures at least to a medium, 
 otherwise the lack of good antialiasing, means the game is as jagged or worse as it's PC predecessor 
 San Andreas. There are no quirks like hooking a trailer to a truck, no firefighter missions or 
 medic missions, only cops this time. No planes, only choppers... I mean, what is the drastic improvement 
 that this game should have in order to deserve the 9.0, I really can't find it and I would love 
 to love GTA. It all just seems scaled up, with better graphics and insane requirements. And shouldn't 
 gamespot be recommending games to average gamers. 2 of my friends bought the game also, both with 
 minimum requirements met, both don't see anything in the game except for cars and pedestrians, 
 and I now that that is a common issue, not to mention other ingame bugs that occur regardless of 
 the power of your machine. Oh and if you think you have the latest and greatest such as SLI, forget 
 about it, doesn't work, however it does utilize the 64bit architecture and multicore technology. 
 This game is a huge dissapointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AhmedS200500
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  Story: 8
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 8
  Sounds: 8
  Overall: 7.5
  
  my spec is :
  
  intel core 2 due 2ghz
  vid card 8600GS 512 vid ram
  2gb ram
  os Xp sp3
  
  and game is 
 running verry bad here 17 framerates o lowset res and setting
  
  and alot of bugs like grainy shadows
  
  and it need more options to be added in graphic setting
 
  
  like AA and Shadows Control (off - low - medium - high)
  
  i hope they fix all this on coming patch :/
  
  -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- 
 -+-+- -+-+- -+
  -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+
  -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+
  -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- 
 -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+
  -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+
  -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- 
 -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+-+- -+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireproofarm
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2008 5:26 am PT
Review:  gta 4 the name is enough to seduce any gamer to its charm ,gta 4 vice city, san andreas are two 
 major title which created havok among games and compled many games to be like it .My one word term 
 apart from addictive ,super, rocks ,masterpiece etc would be INNOVATIVE .any gamer who has even 
 little experiance of playing games would appreciate gta 4 and its other title. GTA 4 a single title 
 covers the games title like NFS, MAFIA, SIMULATORs, SIMS. My personal favourite improvement in gta 
 4 would looks of cars and weather effect (mindblowing) .inspite of performance issue (which i hope 
 will be solved soon) i still give gta 4 10\10. GTA 4 reminds me of mafia .mafia was my favourite 
 game in top 5 games of mine. gta 4 special feature could be mentioned as soon as u take a look at 
 this game awesom cars, with much better designing and are much durable ,weather effect are so so 
 so real you can feel like you are just playing a new generation of game gta 4 main attraction is 
 its gameplay no other game in the whole world could be compared to gta 4 like game play gta 4 gameplay 
 include driving of cars ,bike, train, plane and what else you could think of you can kill people 
 or spare them buy guns or steal them ,destroy city or revive it etc you could do it with gta 4 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragFire24
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2009 8:03 am PT
Review:  The game is great. No, I am not drunk. It is perfect as a game but has some/lots of issues right 
 now. They will get fixed and the rating should be made when everything is ok.
  
  The only mistake Rockstar did was that they wanted it before christmas holidays. I hate to say 
 it but the rating for this game must be done the next year, when the game is more playable. Then, 
 GTA fans will be satisfied about this.
  
  Rating of 9.0 - Ok since it has bugs. A game of rating 10 downgraded because of bugs but still 
 the best when it's fixed.
  
  I have an ATI Radeon HD 4870 graphic card and an E8400 processor. I played it at 35 - 45 FPS (nothing 
 overclocked) with settings set to default. If you look at GTA: SA, when you put the frame limiter 
 on the FPS is limited to 25 and is very playable... so the FPS is good! Maybe it has to be improved 
 as an overall performance since it glitches when there is a lot of action. And the last point, 
 Shadows look really bad (those that remain even if the shadow option is turned off not the others) . 
 On the Xbox360 there is less contrast in them and look a _lot_ better.
  
  [Edit: 07/01/2009]
  After the game update and graphic card driver update the game shadows look 
 good. I have a problem with this game though, I have an Asus P45 motherboard and an HD4870 graphic 
 card. I found out that no matter what I do the game won't be 100% stable, in fact it crashes in 
 some moments. Not particular moments or at stages of the game but randomly. Sometimes after 1hr 
 of playing, sometimes after 2hrs but that's the normal range. [my rating down to 9 from 10 because 
 of this - this is not only my problem - hope it gets fixed sometime]
  
  After updating, the game runs better at around 40fps - 60fps 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tangerine123
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 10, 2008 3:25 am PT
Review:  Someone asked this question and I thought it would be interesting to ask Gamespot, if the game 
 on PC is worth 9.0, where is the video review, just to show us, how is the game going on your rigs? 
 Maybe there is no video review, because game plays as shi*** on your PC's as it does on all the 
 other computers? So, please give us a video review for this "great" PC game, which probably goes 
 very smooth on your computers. You know, maybe it's just our lame hardware, which is faulty, or 
 the video drivers configuration, or whatever 100 reasons. OR, maybe it is hurried, unoptimized, 
 broken game, which Rockstar has released for the PC gamers. Anyhow, Rockstar just made everyone 
 more angry by blaming everyone and everything else, except themselves.
  
  Btw, I formatted my PC yesterday and made a clean install of XP SP3 and everything else, latest 
 drivers including, of course. So how do you think - does the game run at least little bit better, 
 than before? Of course not.
  
  Core 2 Duo 2,3 GHZ
  3GB Ram
  Radeon x1950xtx
  (my PC)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: djmtec
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  Since i have a "not so bad" system config with a core 2 duo clocked at 3.6 gigs , 4 gigs of RAM 
 and ATI HD4870 video card ... and i barely break the 34 fps framerate barrier at night only... 
 i must say it is quite disappointing. 
  
  The thing about the game ... its great ... from the complexity and story line point of view. It 
 has various new additions and extremely nice video effects to cope with that. All that Real Life 
 interaction makes a great plus to this PC GTA above all other.
  
  But! When the game starts rendering textures as i move on ... and sometimes fails to do so and 
 i see them like i would be playing on low quality , the view distances even though its 100 in the 
 settings it seems like 0 since i only see the trees from 1 block away. Not even worth mentioning 
 the fact that when i stand still some buildings in the background start flickering (appearing an 
 disappearing) as well as the textures on various cars and roads. Then after 15 minutes of disturbed 
 game play i notice that even the texture on which i am standing and which should be fully rendered... 
 starts to flicker.... then ... that destroys all my involvement in the game... cannot even enjoy 
 the beauty of the new things with these issues. This even intervenes when playing those theatrical 
 clips upon starting a mission and it becomes very disturbing. This thing made me quit GTA 4 , 5 
 times and choosing to play something else ... even though i like the game so much. 
  
  So i will rate it high for what i had to say... at an 5 - but if this graphic thingy doesn't get 
 fixed ... my rate would be much less, at about 2 lol. And i give it an 5 because it tries ... but 
 i would like to see Rockstar try more and make those people who bought their game proud that they 
 ordered ... once you loose the gamers interest by doing big mistakes ... you might not have the 
 same sales next time you release a product. 
  
  Taking into account that this is not a MMO - these things should be done properly before being 
 released , and tested on all possible hardware ... you don't pay money to wait for patches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lausylau
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 9, 2008 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Given the reviews from fellow players, i have held off buying the game for fear of owning an unplayable 
 game on my 1 year old rig. I am a huge GTA fan, so this is an extremely disappointing situation.
 
  
  i am writing this because i smell a conspiracy. Most, if not all, of the big time games are video 
 reviewed by Gamespot, but has anyone noticed that there isn't one for GTA IV? If the graphics had 
 "minor problems", then there shouldn't be a problem showing us how it worked on the Gamespot machines.
 
  
  Also, normally reviews are out within a few days of official release, but it has taken close to 
 a week. Maybe they were debating internally whether to give it a 9 or a 3. And you sort of wonder 
 whether Rock * had anything to do with it. "We will fix it so don't give us a 3 rating!" they tell 
 Gamespot....
  
  I'm also a big fan of Gamespot, but something doesn't feel right. I'll wait for the patch and see 
 what the users say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kragen22000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  When i heard this game was initially coming out for pc I wanted it now . So much i couldn't wait 
 and got it off of steam a day ahead .
  a time. Initially the frame rate was really choppy. Messed with the setting and got it to a playable 
 state. 
  I agree that there are some actual real concerns for the issues people are having. Like game crashes 
 and fps issues. 
  but all of that aside i feal this is the most fun and realistic
  game i've played so far. the character you interact with feel so real
  that you feel actual shock 
 when they get killed or turn on you 
  for a game to that takes a lot of talent effort to pull that off
  
  
  And i do agree that 
 rockstar should of waited a bit longer before releasing this game. Even though you can't let this 
 one instance completely turn you off to the company after all the great games they put out. they 
 admit there is a problem and are really trying hard to rectify it . This also makes me wonder how 
 many of these are legitimate claims and how many are just people out fanning the flames. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GetafixOz
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  I bought a PS3 to play GTAIV. I am a dedicated PC gamer but I am also a dedicated fan of GTA. I 
 guess it was inevitable that Rockstar would one day find a way to screw up the franchise, well 
 they have managed to do it.
  
  GTAIV PC should have never been released in its current state. How anyone could regard the game 
 as playable is beyond me. I dont care what sort of rig you have, you will not be playing GTAIV 
 PC in high detail and if your lucky it will be more than a slide show in low detail.
  
  The game is basically broken, if I had to guess, as a lay person, I would say it either has a horro 
 memory leak or the port was so lazy it is just not coded to work with PC hardware. In short the 
 technical side of the game is not in a marketable state.
  
  This means I will not even comment on the gameplay because after 2 hours of trying to get it started 
 and waiting for Winblows Live to go through its crap... I gave up after 5 minutes of play. I got 
 off the boat, projectile vommited at the performance, turned everything to minimum... projectile 
 vomited that it made no difference and went back to playing Warhammer 40k again... a game so good 
 I am still playing it nightly to this day.
  
  SHAME SHAME SHAME Rockstar.
  
  Gamespot... you need to go attend rehab because you are halucinating to give this a 9
  
  Thanks 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: windfish113
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Giving a 10 to the console versions was a complete joke, and the 9 that gamespot gave to the PC 
 version is just as laughable. I have to wonder just how much rockstar paid these guys to overlook 
 all the problems with this game. For me, it's barely playable. It all has to do with the graphics 
 limitations. I really can't take it anymore. Im going to rant here for a minute.
  
  For those of you who haven't heard, the game does not allow you to exceed the amount of video memory 
 detected in your system. For me, with 2 8800GTS 320 Mb cards in SLI, i am not allowed to exceed 
 300 mbs of g-ram. which means the game absolutely will not allow me to set the res past 1024x768 
 and low settings for view distance/shadows/etc. Yet on every other modern game i can just about 
 max out the settings. No way is this game twice as graphically intense as Fallout 3. I just don't 
 believe it.
  
  If my computer can play Crysis at high and get above 30 fps why the hell cant i even set this game 
 to medium settings. Rockstar for some reason thinks they know my computer, which i custom built, 
 better than me... The limitations on graphics settings in this game are the absolute stupidest 
 thing i have ever seen in a video game. I spent (supposedly) 50 bucks to get this game, and i should 
 be able to customize the graphics however the hell i want. If the game would let me turn up the 
 resolution, view distance, etc. i would probably love it. As it is, it looks and plays like crap. 
 I know there is a command line workaround but it won't work on my PC, and the fact that i should 
 have to resort to that is ridiculous.
  
  Why even bother porting the game to PC if you are going to keep the graphics looking as crappy 
 as on the PS3. Shame on you, Rockstar, for neglecting the system that gave you your start as a 
 company. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheBeanscout
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 9, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  i really dont like it and wish that they made tge game with more thought.
  
  also how can they rate a game a 9 when there are so many noticeable flaws in every part of the 
 game. its sooooooooooo lame that gamespot has made a new team of eager mcbeaver reveiwers for all 
 the new games but all they do is rate a game based on its popularity.
  
  this game is unfinished and not full of the same immersiveness mainly cuz its chock full of glitches 
 and bugs. so for that it gets a 1 it loses all points cuz it hastily ported for a quick buck and 
 is not finished as the 360 was.
  
  ok bye.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  m
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  m
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  m 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zzorrkk
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Hi,
  First review I write here, mainly because I'm so disappointed by this game. I nearly bought a console 
 reading als the PS3 and XBOX360 Reviews earlier this year but decided to wait - mainly because 
 I like playing with mouse and keyboard and my PC is way better than any console hardware out there...
 
  Boy was I wrong! After installing a copy protection system on my pc which actually monitors my 
 pc the game forces me into 2 online clubs I simply don't want - windows live and rockstar social 
 club. I want the singleplayer part and I don't need this. But I don't have a choice... Then the 
 game recommends graphical settings by autodetection which result in far too choppy gameplay. I 
 use the built in Benchmark and find some settings that don't look that good, but give me 30 fps. 
 Ingame FRAPS tells me I have 18-22 FPS, so it seems all I can get with a Core 2 Extreme 2,9 GHZ, 
 4MB DDR2 Ram and a GForce 280GTX are the settings comparable to the console version with a bad 
 framerate. In addition the game crashes randomly to the desktop. When I start to get really angry 
 and try to find solutions on the web, I read that ATI users can't start the game at all!
  This is a bad joke and it seems like Rockstar simply didn't care when it came to beta testing... 
 And I really don't get why sites like Gamespot try to convince me, that firing Jeff Gerstman had 
 nothing to do with advertising and now they give this game 9.0 and the editor's choice... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tachsniper
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 9, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  horrible completely horrible. the mighty console giant has fallen to an abysmal PC port. do yourself 
 favor and get it on a console. Another victim of the "get it out and fix it later" syndrome. i 
 honestly can't believe this game was released like this. this should be an example of what NOT 
 to do. missing textures, random crashes, and a host of other wonky things a PC game should not 
 do.
  
  I think this should be the line drawn we as gamers have put up with enough of this sub standard 
 crap in our medium, you wouldn't pay for a half finished movie so why are we forced to pay for 
 half finished/tested games? enough is enough and GTAIV for PC is a great example of just how many 
 corners gaming companies are willing to cut. a healthy round of post production testing would have 
 caught this disaster before the public got a hold of it. Epic Epic fail Rockstar. 
  
  and shame on you Gamespot for condoning this behavior with your high rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Philosoph
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 10, 2008 4:49 am PT
Review:  I decided to buy this game, i was one of GTA series' biggest fans i've played all of them and loved 
 all of them, but nothing is worth this piece of effluent supposedly marketed as a brilliant PC 
 game.
  
  First hurdle is the DRM, the GTA "social club" activation and the windows live game installation 
 and registration, and if you are like me and despise these 'ations, this first hurdle is most agonizing, 
 took me the whole day before i could play, as my Gaming rig is not connected, and "manual activation" 
 was as useful it was intended to be.
  
  The next hurdle is the game itself. If you recall the San Andreas release, much was speculated 
 over the full six month difference between the PC and the PS releases this has become fairly common 
 place, with console games being released while their PC counterparts are done up and modified for 
 greater clarity blah, blah, blah. anyway many believed that it had to do with a payout buy sony 
 and all that stuff but the PC version was AWESOME. so who cared about the delay. I just feel this 
 game fell short. Way short of that mark. it's really pity cos this was to be the best one yet.
 
  
  Unfortunately i have to say that if you truly want to see this game at it's best, buy yourself 
 a nice console and play it on there. Or feel free to bypass the securom by any means necessary. 
 and considering i completely disapprove of pirating games, that's saying something.
  
  I decided to exchange my newly bought GTA IV for FALLOUT 3, not as big as GTA but still a damn 
 good game thanks for the idea Deathwatch28 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8berse6
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 9, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  The Xbox 360 version was the best version of this game, it was beautiful, the controls were great, 
 and the fact that you could play it on a huge screen immersed you better. The PC version can't 
 hold a candle to the Xbox version. The environment is the same, the gameplay is the same, but the 
 massive amount of bugs cripples a great game and makes some parts of the game incredibly frustrating 
 and at times even unplayable. If you have an Xbox 360 and still don't have this game (what is wrong 
 with you?) you shouldn't get this for the PC. For those people who only have PCs you should get 
 this game and really hope for some patches. Also the system requirements for your PC are huge. 
 If your PC can play Crisis than you'll be able to play this game, but if it can't you should be 
 kinda worried about lag issues and loss of the textures in the environment that really make this 
 game spectacular. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snokdruid
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2008 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Everyone knows what GTAIV is like on the consoles so i'll cut to the chase and tell you about my 
 experience with the PC version.
  
  Even with the high PC needed (my 2gb ram, e8400, 8800gts could only run medium/high with fairly 
 short view range) the game is still as immersive and fun as the console game. There is some weird 
 graphical stuff here and there but it doesn't spoil the overall look of Liberty City.
  
  The addition of an extra 16 players on multiplayer is fantastic, twice the action = twice the fun 
 right?
  
  The video editor is there but i haven't tried it, maybe it is something good to play with after 
 i've finished the story.
  
  I would recommend this game to anyone with a good CPU like a e8400 or more (the game is very cpu 
 dependent compared to the graphics card) and the game is really worth updating for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panicmark
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 9, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  Now i finished this game 3 times on PS3 and now i am playing 4th, but damn PC version is just like 
 seed before running in front of Christmas , u cant play mini-games, its not optimised for pc i 
 need like 1500+ euros for new pc that would may be, be able to start the game so its big drop down 
 for Rockstar games. Hope they fix it up a litle maby some big patches, dunno Any way PC Down badly 
 , consoles UP high to the sky
  
  so i love the game u should try it out its great , not for PC just not this time, maby they will 
 do GTA5 optimised for PC we never know ;)
  
  i dunno what else to say :/ ppl all around world waited for december the second, and they got disapointed 
 in R* i just now it, i mean not every one has Xbox or PS3
  
  
  Good playing ;) hope u like the game, ohhhh what am i saying i know you will like it, 
  
  p. s.: Niko 
 live long don't get killed ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tracphone
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 9, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  First of all, I loved the previous GTA games and therefore, I'm no hater. But I do take issue with 
 certain individuals who say that it runs great, gave it a perfect score, and complain about people 
 letting the game down. My response to them is if I had a bad ass computer that would make the game 
 playable I wouldn't be complaining. SO many bugs I won't even mention. Other user reviews can attest 
 to that. Also I stand by a user reviewer saying that review companies have gotten paid to give 
 this sloppy port a high score DESPITE all the bugs. This is just ridiculous. How do you give a 
 game a 9.0 when there has been so much uprising about the game being unplayable? Even steam users 
 have gotten a refund and Game Spot gave this game a 9.0???????? Maybe after a few patches it will 
 be perfect, but as it stands in the retail package you get from the store, not on your life. Other 
 games had received a low score due to bugs, so why not this one? Oh wait, this is Game Spot we're 
 talking about..... it's all about the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathwatch28
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 9, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  I bought on the day of release for the pc and tried to install it. First off i had authenticate 
 my date of birth online then put in cd-key which also had to be checked online but the program 
 they supplied would not connect so I had to do it manually through there website. from there i 
 got another code that had to be put with the code I already had to recieve a third code off them 
 (bear in mind ive been at this far a while no, little peeved off) . 
  Then the installation carried on that took over just an hour to install both disks, fine i'll watch 
 a movie in the meantime. Once it had finished i ran the game only to recieve an error messege and 
 it crashing. After reading various forum pages on the problems i was getting I patched by copy 
 of xp and installed the latest graphics drivers. 
  So when I actually tried to play it windows live wanted me to sign in (luckly I already have an 
 account) and rockstar socialclub also needs me to sign in to their site (pass) . I'm bored now and 
 the game has only just came on. The graphics um how can I say are poor at best (this game does 
 not support SLI as I found out) and it runs like a dog (or maybe a tortoise) . After playing for 
 several minutes I turned it off by the way off blue screen o death, so i rebooted my machine and 
 continued to play Fallout 3.
  In summary if you like wasting an evening or two faffing on forums and random patches and signing 
 up for stupid clubs that arn't even releavent of necessary buy GTA 4 or if you prefer fun, easy 
 to install, beautiful to look at, massive game play Fallout 3.
  Thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moognus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  All PC gamers have been waiting ages for this game. It was bugged when it came out, but the only 
 error I had has been cleared up. I have a Q6600 - An 9600gt and 2gb Ram and with the new Nvidia 
 drivers it runs like a greased pig.
  
  This game is just amazing. The single player is without paralell in terms of immersion and the 
 multiplayer is far more fun than any online experience I have ever had.
  
  I hope that a patch will sort out everyone else's performance problems, but some people have to 
 face up to the fact that you wouldn't be able to run the 360 version on a NES, so why should you 
 be able to run the PC version on an old rig?
  
  Get it, play it, love it - take it to your heart and cherish it. It's the result of huge investment, 
 well made and a genuine work of art - the current high water mark in video games. I haven't touched 
 Fallout 3 since this came out, and that is saying something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesaintdogg
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  Now I don't expect everyone to buy a new PC for this game, but I don't see a problem with a game 
 being made that runs great at mid-level components.
  
  Moore's Law people , in another year, my rig won't handle new games anymore - why should your couple 
 of years old machine be able to?
  
  I just cant stand to see people complain and belittle the work done, when on the flipside you would 
 be complaining that it was not new enough, the graphics weren't good enough, the physics weren't 
 cool enough.
  
  You don't need an insane pc to run this game, and if getting a new sub-1000 pc every 2 years is 
 what it takes to play NEW, AWESOME games, that actually use new technology, then it's worth it.
 
  
  you people that complain would have us playing half-life 1 still. Not that it wasn't the best game 
 I ever played - but i'm past it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arester
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  GTA IV is a great game and i recommend it to everybody, i love the gameplay and the friends system 
 with many many other things to do but no game on pc reached the perfection, and this not exclude 
 gta iv. Gta iv has got a seriously problem with graphics that pisses of people, i had this problem 
 too i fixed it with the nvidia beta drivers and now i can play on low with a decent.
  The game is good as long you have a good computer.
  Other things i find new in this game are 
 : a realistic taxi system, police database, the chellphone, friends special abilities and the tv.
 
  This was my first review so dont blame or somthing like that.
  
  
  
   
 
  
  (Sorry for this gamepost say i need atleast 800 words lol ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vedomedo
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 9, 2008 6:05 am PT
Review:  Well like countless other people have said so far, yes the game IS good but if you don't have a 
 SUPER computer the game will not run properly, so you will just go back to the console version.
 
  And since the only new things are so minor the game is not really worth the money, because you 
 will have to upgrade your PC to appreciate the game...
  Also the controls were bad, AS WELL as the install time, it took forever...
  
  anyway, if you 
 think I'm just another one of those people with a **** PC who whines about high specs, your wrong 
 THESE are my specs
  
  4GB ram
  GTX 280
  E8500 Duo Core 3.16GhZ
  
  and with those specs i run CRYSIS on max with 1920x1200 and a stable fps around 35-40 and on GTA 
 i ran MAX 30 fps and i couldn't even put the gfx on max, it said my gfx memory was exceeded... 
 so ye game is poorly ported.
  
  So my advice to anyone who has the option between the console and the PC version, i'd say go for 
 the console version, it's much easier and you don't have to use 30mins of your life just installing 
 the damn game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captain110
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  9 months ago it was only a wish for me to play GTA IV on my PC. In summer when they announced GTA 
 IV will come out for pc i couldnt really believe it. My wish would become true. So i waited and 
 waited until 2nd of December when it came out. I checked GameSpot to see the ratings and i got 
 shocked. 1 out of 10? 2 out of 10? It was unacceptable for me so i got out and bought the game.
 
  To tell you the truth i was disappointed at first. GTA IV is the first ever game which required 
 SP1 for windows vista before it could be installed. I downloaded SP1 for vista and the game installation 
 started. it took about an hour or so to finish. I skipped the social club registration cause i 
 didn't want to try the multiplayer, so i started the game and let me tell you something, GTA IV 
 really caught my attention.
  The story sounds really great although i haven't finished it yet. The graphics which most of reviewers 
 are complaining are fantastic. I don't have a Gaming rig (just a single 8600gt ddr3 and a core2Duo 
 CPU) but the game runs beautifully. Graphic details are also great. I agree it doesn't look like 
 the console version and its a little buggy, but it is still fun to play. the sound acting is artistic. 
 Gameplay is smooth although driving a car is a bit confusing at first.
  Overall I would give it a 9 if it wasnt buggy but if they release a patch that fixes the problems, 
 this game is a masterpiece and a must play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 187-Boo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 4:38 am PT
Review:  The only reason that users are giving this game such a bad score is because their computers just 
 cant handle it. In order to run this game, your computer needs to be a beast... seriously. A computer 
 that can run Crysis may not be able to run this game. The graphics in this game are great... much 
 better than the console versions. The game play is amazing and the storyline will keep you hooked. 
 I find myself playing this game for hours on end... and even when I'm not doing missions or jobs 
 for people, I just roam the huge city. Hopefully, Rockstar will release some patches that will 
 clean up some of the lag issues so that everyone can enjoy this game (hopefully) .
  
  my specs (I'm running this game on all high with no lag)
  
  Core2Quad Q6600
  4 gigs DDR2 
 800
  GTX 260
  EVGA 750i sli FTW
  Antec Nine Hundred 
::::::

::::::
UserName: race999
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 8, 2008 11:58 pm PT
Review:  it has more comparision for pcs and xbox 360 xbox 360 has high definition gaming in xbox 360 it 
 looks great and in pcs it looks some fair. and in pcs we must have windows live id and it is not 
 better in controlling and its requirements are very high level requirements over all game is very 
 good and the game difference between pc and xbox 360 is very more xbox 360 has higher level of 
 graphics and comparing pc and xbox 360 pc is failure
  
  Stepping off a boat in the shoes of illegal immigrant Niko Bellic as he arrives in Liberty City 
 at the start of Grand Theft Auto IV, you can tell immediately that Rockstar North's latest offering 
 is something quite special. Yes, this is another GTA game in which you'll likely spend the bulk 
 of your time stealing cars and gunning down cops and criminals, but it's also much more than that. 
 GTAIV is a game with a compelling and nonlinear storyline, a great protagonist who you can't help 
 but like, and a plethora of online multiplayer features in addition to its lengthy story mode. 
 The PC version adds a customizable radio station and a video editor to the package, and also ups 
 the multiplayer count from 16 to 32 players. It's not all good news, though; the game suffers from 
 some noticeable performance issues even on rigs that far exceed the unreasonably high recommended 
 system specifications, and you need to be signed in to Windows Live to save your progress in the 
 single-player game. This should have been the best GTA game yet, but it's inferior to its console 
 counterparts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derid
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  
  I almost did not buy the game due to the reviews by many players complaining of trouble. After 
 getting the D2D version, I installed it right up and it plays fine. Very smooth, 25 view distance 
 , gfx looks great. 
  
  If your having issues, three things *might* contribute to my literally plug and play install-
 
  
  1) I dont have the "proper" flash plugin for IE, so no flash displays in-game. I dont use IE... 
 and never got flash for it, only a firefox plugin but GTA4 uses flash in IE, in-game for Social 
 Club video playback...... my IT guy spider sense tells me this is the likely problem for many people 
 with otherwise decent machines experiencing screw-ups. Flash is buggy crap, and playing it via 
 IE in a 3d engine has soooo much potential for bad things to happen. So, uninstall your IE flash 
 plugins.
  
  2) XP 64 + 4 Gigs ram. 
  
  3) Quad core. This game is highly CPU dependant, and optimized for 3+ cores. I consider this a 
 good thing, it will play fine with a fast *enough dual core, but its about time game devs starting 
 using more cores for usefull stuff when available. R* deserves props not condemnation for this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freemini
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 11:47 pm PT
Review:  I have to agree that the system requirements are a bit high but I can still run it on medium. The 
 only problem is that the visual filed or what is called I can only raise it to 5! That means that 
 the textures load very slow. If I put the texture quality on low (but it's pretty crappy on visuals) 
 i can raise the visual field higher (up to 22) . Anyway this is still an awesome game to play! GO 
 ROCKSTAR GAMES! I want a gta for my ipod touch.
  I played all of the gta games and this is by far the best. San Andreas is the most complete it has 
 all kind of terrain and a great city. But none of these games can't compare to gta iv's physics, 
 they are above reality.
  Ignore this: sdadhasjdh sajddddhssssksadj alkj3jlk21 3jkldjsakl sajdlsaj dksald jklj32 424dddd sadajhdjkas 
 ajsdhsakjdhasjkdak sajkddhaskjdh sajk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaku101
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 9, 2008 12:10 am PT
Review:  The game is loaded with bugs and requires a computer that can run crysis on high just to run it 
 on med settings. The visuals and frame rate issues really hurt the gameplay. The view distance 
 makes you feel like your not even in a city but rather a little box. Why did the reviewer ignore 
 these major issues it makes me wonder? Just to save your game and play online you have to jump 
 through quite a few loops and install useless programs. If you must get your copy of GTA4, please 
 go out and buy it on the ps3 and 360, Rock star clearly made one of the worst ports possible. This 
 is not worth your $50-40. If you like you can also buy a 4-5K computer to run the game on high 
 settings, sadly a 1K computer could run Crysis on high or even max. If you ask me the major reviewing 
 companies got paid off, its happened before and now again. Many games on gamespot have bean punished 
 for their performance issues, but when it comes to money, such things can be forgotten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pixeltim
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 8, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  After waiting for so long to play this game, I must say that the disappointment is by far the biggest 
 I have ever felt when playing a new release for the first time. 
  Sure, take away the technical issues and you have yet another masterpiece in the GTA series. Once 
 again, Rockstar proves that a game can have the depth of something that lies between a Coen movie 
 and, dare I say, reality. 
  Nonetheless, it is impossible to ignore the sloppy frame rate, that drops to abysmal counts, even 
 when really nothing is going on, on screen (I'm not even going to start about all the other technical 
 issues people have been experiencing) . I own a high-end PC, that should have no trouble at all 
 playing this game, but still it looks like I'm playing on a 486.
  Rockstars excuse that the high settings are meant for future PC's is no more that a joke! Who will 
 like to play a ten year old game by the time you're able to run GTA IV smoothly?! It's like building 
 a car that runs on a yet to be developed fuel, asking 40K for it and then say: "why drive a car 
 today, when you can drive it in ten years?!"
  Critics have been shouting for years that a game like GTA is full of violence and crime and therefore 
 should be banned! Well let me say this, the real crime was committed the minute Rockstar released 
 this not yet finished game! I want my money back! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuconteaza
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Ignoring the now extremely annoying talk about hardware and how bad it's optimized, I want to actually 
 talk about the GAME not FPS or quad core and the like.
  
  It's simply missing a lot of features that the other games had.
  It was all going great up until 
 now, San Andreas was better than Vice City, VC better than gta 3 and so on.
  Now that trend is broken by this game.
  
  Yeah it's a good game, GTA 3 would still be a good 
 game now if you updated the graphics but I was expecting more NOT LESS.
  
  They probably took out a lot of things to put them in the next GTA and I'm sure most will go along 
 with it when the next GTA will have bicycles, planes and tanks and praise it.
  
  -The story is the most realistic of the series but not the best. Maybe because it's the same story 
 of a thug going up the criminal social ladder. 
  
  -Graphics own all the other GTA games big time. Even at the really low settings I'm playing it 
 still looks better than San Andreas. 
  
  -Gameplay is good but... not improved from the previous. 
  The only big new feature is to have 
 friends call you ALL the time is really bad. I never enjoyed the girlfriend in SA and now you get 
 to have a girlfriend AND guy friends to bother you all the time because you ignore them. So now 
 you get to have 5 people giving you the same boring mini missions over and over until you just 
 ignore them like you do with you real friends (stop playing GTA all the time and take them out 
 every once in a while, you bad friend) .
  
  -The setting is simply boring. I was one of the people who thought Liberty City was the best of 
 the GTA cities because of the grittier look. Well now I'm sick of this gray EVERYWHERE you are 
 on the map. Which needs mention that you no longer have anything other than a really big Liberty 
 City. 
  The only difference between the zones are the rich and poor areas. Nothing special like the country 
 side, the desert or the distinct 3 cities of San Andreas.
  Just one big gray city. I live in one and it's no more fun in a video game than it is in real life.
 
  
  Summary : A good game with plenty of flaws. Driving over innocent people never gets old and now 
 thanks to that wonderful rag doll it's even more of a pleasure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: new22003
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 8, 2008 8:24 pm PT
Review:  I think by saying "could have been the best", the gamespot review hit the nail on the head. It 
 should have been better than the console version. The game runs ok for me but not perfectly on 
 a 9800 gt. Needing Windows Live to save is a complete crock. Overall a disappointment and a half 
 arsed port by normally good Rockstar. Not worth $49!!!!!! I feel ripped off, the first time I can 
 say that about a Rockstar game. The worst of the gta series for the PC. Very lazy port and the 
 developers should feel ashamed. Who do I see about getting my money back? If you feel like you 
 have to have this game wait for it to hit the bargain rack or wait for it to come as a GTA complete 
 collection. No woner steam users have been asking for their money back. Companies need to relaize 
 they cant just pawn junk off on PC users. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pagow
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 8, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Playing on a BFG 7950 GT OC. 1.8 GHz Core 2 Duo. Got it working but stuttery after installing latest 
 Nvidia driver. After one longish session of play - I am unable to load the game. Stops responding. 
 The security and Social Club interface is a total pain in the neck. Just uninstalled the game - 
 but even that was not seamless! 
  
  I have purchased and played all other iterations of GTA for PC and this is a total let down for 
 the technical reasons. That said, Gameplay was fun for the time I had it working. Looked good. 
 Good acting. All that a GTA fan would expect but just way too buggy to bother with. I'll wait for 
 a patch but for now - we need a little time apart. 
  
  
  I'll find something else to entertain over the holiday but will not soon forget that Rockstar not 
 only picked my pocket also aggravated me no end. Thanks for nothin' R*. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edub101
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 8, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  I've played PC games for decades now. I know that sometimes there are glitches. Sometimes PC's 
 can be quirky. Not every piece of ancient hardware can run every game.... I get that. But there 
 is an unspoken, unwritten law of the PC jungle that good companies that care about their customer 
 put out games that -- at the very least -- can be played by quality, up-to-date machines.
  
  Enter Grand Theft Auto IV. Apparently, Rockstar has stopped caring about PC users entirely, and 
 wanted one last money-grab before pulling the plug on its PC games development department. Just 
 in time for the holidays, Rockstar sneaks GTA4 under the radar, hoping that enough of us fools 
 buy it before word gets out.... the whole PC port is a complete and utter technical train wreck. 
 My advice to any PC owner who unwraps a holiday gift to find this nightmare-in-a-box staring back 
 at them is simple: Under no circumstances should you break the seal or open the plastic wrap. If 
 you do, you can't get your money back. Instead, take it directly back to the store, and get yourself 
 a game that works. I suggest Fallout 3.... Bethesda still cares about us.
  
  You may think me cynical. But a quick Google search for "GTA" and "complete mess" will lead you 
 to page after page of delightful discussion on the merits of Rockstar's technical marvel called 
 GTA 4. No video card is safe; no configuration is proper. Rockstar's own explanation for the trouble 
 in PC paradise?... They haven't invented the PC hardware that can play this game yet. But someday, 
 in the future, they will... and boy will we have an awesome game on our hands!
  
  Makers of Saints Row 2 take heed. You're about to be the only sandbox-style, open-ended, gangster-themed 
 game in town. Don't let us down! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew666max
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Unlike the other reviewers, I think it's amazing that you can do so much with such low 
 computing power. The physics is really well done, the rendering seems very realistic, and the animations 
 are really natural, the freedom of movement and the way you can interact with the environment is 
 impressive, incredible sometimes. Very much attention paid to the details without loosing focus 
 of the whole idea. The gameplay is fantastic and the storyline is quite good. There's too many 
 things to enumerate, but the idea is that it's more like a concept then a game. 
  
  The Bad: I would have given it a 10, but as wurd (another reviwer) said, Rockstar forces you into 
 creating online accounts for saving and for multiplayer gameplay. We're not stupid, we all know 
 what the real purpose of those accounts is. This is very disappointing to me, since I always thought 
 that Rockstar was on the players' side. Now we're all turning into costumers and consumers and 
 they'll probably turn into something like EA, every new idea will come from heavy marketing studies 
 (and from usage reports sent from those online accounts you have to use) , and GTA will unfortunately 
 have the same fate as NFS: UNPLAYABLE!
  
  The Conclusion: Enjoy it! It's probably the climax of the GTA series! "I go kill now, OK?" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sparky73
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of SAN ANDREAS, so this new GTA4 had to be better! I would say that the GTA series 
 has got better with every release since it first started and my expectation was great. GTA3 was 
 near perfect for me, the story was spot on and CONVINCING but GTA 4 isn't quite there for me yet. 
 I must admit at this point that I'm under 20% through it but the story isn't as grabbing maybe 
 because its Eastern European and away from the BIG SCREEN but Im sure the more i play the more 
 it will fill the VOID. I love some of the new stuff like the TV but Im only 20% through it. At 
 this moment I feel the story needs translation which maybe personal to me. All in all this is worth 
 it if you can get through the technical problems.
  
  Technical Issues.
  I HAD a Nvidia 8600 GT and used drivers from 172 version to the BETA 180 and NO joy, I'd get round 
 a corner from the game starting and the graphics disappeared and I'd find myself floating and un-able 
 to navigate.
  
  After much frustration I swapped my GFX for a Nvidia 8600 GTS both however 256mb cards, fortunately 
 the game worked on the latter so Im able to write this review. If Id have been stuck with the 8600 
 GT I may have written differently but saying that!!!! The GT I was using may have had issues unknown 
 to me as experienced with Fallout3 but to defend this I would say that GTA4 and FALLOUT3 are the 
 only games that my 8600GT couldn't use properly (avoiding the fact I used earlier Forceware drivers 
 to run FALLOUT3 on the GT)
  
  Nvidia need consistency here. BUT GTA4 IF IT RUNS FOR U YOU'LL LOVE IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jefvhees_basic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Yes, you all know about the story and the gameplay and stuff. So the game deserves a superb 10/10 
 for all of that!
  
  Lets cut to the deal and talk performance.
  
  Yes i know. An hour to install, social club , windows live and after the install in runs poorly....
 
  What happens next is mass hysteria. I must admid i was heartbroken when i saw it at first. But 
 after a day of release, Nvidea released a new BETA-driver and all problems are fixed.
  
  The game runs like a train on my 9600GT and 4 gigs of ram. Being on medium and a resolution of 
 1680-1050. It looks good, plays good, it is good. 
  
  The game ran just fine without a patch from rockstar. The only thing needed was a new driver. So 
 why blame them then??? Its really a great game. Being with the new drivers that is... 
  
  Maybe its not the best port ever. But its still GTA4 wich you can enjoy if just are not to short 
 sighted. Don't give in to the mass hysteria and give it a shot! 
  
  YOU WILL NOT BE DISAPOINTED! 
  
  PS: Besides the beginning crash with the social club stuff, 
 i have had no errors what so ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing GTA games since the very first one so i sort of grew up with GTA, first one was 
 epic and innovative, violent too, 2nd one was a bit of a rehash, Gta 3 was good and the start of 
 teh 3rd person GTA, Vice City took the world by storm (arguably the best so far) , San Andreas was 
 a underappreciated yet a great game... step into GTA IV shoes.
  
  
  GRAPHICS- first of all the graphics are good, sharper than previous GTA, however 1st thing you 
 find is the lack of AA which is extremely irritating because the game's textures are quite jaggied, 
 another thing are shadows, they make the game look good but are broken they aren't smooth, they 
 look like dots pasted on the ground, on the other hand the physics and animations are awesome, 
 if you can get over the shadows and lack of AA then welcome to GTA4, just remember GTA has never 
 been about graphics, its all about the gameplay and in that sense GTA4 kinda fails some compared 
 to GTA SA and Vice and wins some, 50-50.
  
  PERFORMANCE - people seem to bash this game because of the performance, it's true the game feels 
 laggy, unresponsive and stutterish but if you lower the distance view to say 5, set shadows to 
 2 and the rest 50-50 with an option High-Highest performance goes bang up, nice and smooth, on 
 my 4870X2 with a Q6600 i'm getting (with this simple tweak) average framerates of 45fps, previously 
 i had 20fps, so remember Distance View is the main problem.
  
  another thing is memory leaks in Vista 32 and 64, the game suddenly seem to leak and use 3.6GB 
 of ram causing a crash or BSOD in some cases, i'm a XP user and had 0 stability issues, i don't 
 really know of any XP user complaining about this, seem related to Vista. so be warned.
  
  new drivers and patch promise to improve performance, all games are buggy, as long as the game 
 is supported i see no reason to be upset, once this game runs properly on your PC you will fall 
 in love with it, so don't let the initial experience ruin it please.
  
  SOUND - the voice acting for the most part is great, Niko voice could be better though, it's obvious 
 that an american guy is trying to sound russian/serbian, should've picked a better actor but it 
 fits, the rest is great, music as always is excellent and sounds are all well done.
  
  GAMEPLAY - it's GTA, run or drive around, kill, take missions, watch strippers, have private dance 
 for you, fall in love, act badass, one great thing is the addiction of Choices, eg. you can choose 
 to save the character you were sent to kill or simply finish him, it's a great touch. you gonna 
 like the gameplay this time around, but Vice City remains the best, was just perfect, but GTA4 
 kinda make up for GTASA gameplay wise and it's quite realistic too.
  
  CONCLUSION?
  
  it's a great game, would've been a classic without the performance and graphics and stability issues 
 on some rigs, it's a mature game that showcases a deeper side of GTA and that's a winner, Rockstar 
 could've done a better job porting this but it's ok, better this + patch than none.
  
  unfortunately the constant whining of people about this game is starting to affect the minds of 
 other gamers, please do not listen to those, this is a great game, with a few faults that you can 
 actually live and deal with, this game grabs you and it's very hard to put down.
  
  GTA IV is recommended and with a few tweaks and as long as you do not expect it to run at max everything 
 smoothly, you'll simply love it, i'll conclude by saying: GTA has never been about graphics, it's 
 all about teh gameplay and GTA IV delivers.
  
  Thanks for reading. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: predatorGS
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  Hi,
  I'm reading a lot "negative" reviews, about the installation and graphical issues. I Understand, 
 but don't give a game an extremely low score only because you cannot install it.
  
  I must admit that I had to register a lot of side-programs (WinLive and RSSC) , and that annoyed 
 me.
  The graphical problems ("you need a super PC!!!" -quote) are a different story; this is my rig:
 
  
  E8400, 3.6GHz
  3870X2
  Asus maximus extreem
  4Gb DDR3-1600 (cas 7)
  32mb cache HDD
  
  These are my GTA4 settings: (I did add "-norestrictions" and "-nomemrestrict")
 
  
  1680x1050 (serious graphical errors when using 1920x1200)
  viewdistance max
  detaildistance max
  shadows max
  texture max
  (and everything I forgot: max too)
  
  my 
 fps is 45 outdoors, so absolutely no problems for me!
  
  With this said; gameplay has to be reviewed, a small one for I have played the game just for an 
 hour of 6.
  
  The gameplay is good, almost as good as vice city! and it's just plain fun driving through the 
 city!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: g_plowking
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 7:41 am PT
Review:  Rockstar made a few mistakes with this port. That much is clear.
  
  PC gamers like myself with very high-end PC's are used to maxing out settings and getting 30+fps. 
 This is what high-end PC gamers have expected, and have received for years. What Rockstar did was 
 the opposite. They gave the high-end user unattainable graphic settings and said 'in the future' 
 a PC might be able to play with everything maxed out.
  
  Backwards thinking, not forwards thinking. As users want the full experience on purchase, not after 
 upgrading something that shouldn't need to be upgraded.
  
  Also, PC users DON'T want to install unecessary support applications like the 'Rockstar' club... if 
 you want to use those things they should be optional, not mandatory.
  
  Windows Live... hmmm... its a matter of taste. Personally I like its potential, and don't mind it. 
 (some hate it, but that's ok, It should still be optional though...) Some people I know are Xbox 
 users, and now I can actually chat to them in-game. And I can join up with other windows live users 
 on multiplayer games like this.
  
  But what about GTA4... well, I love it despite the mistakes made above. It runs great on my PC but 
 you need to swallow some high-end gamer pride and tone back the settings. Sad, I know... but had 
 to be done. It really just needs some serious anti-aliasing though. Another example of Rockstar's 
 poor knowledge of PC gamers... no AA? Madness.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain20035
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 6:04 am PT
Review:  I was really worried about the post I read in various forums about this game. Today, I finally 
 got the game. After a hard time installing and waiting for my Windows LIVE system to update (33MB) , 
 I finally got to play the game. At first I was really puzzled. I have respectable rig. Geforce 
 8800GTX OC, Intel Core 2 Duo E6420 OC and 3 GB RAM. I'm using nVIDIA 180.84 beta drivers. (download 
 from nZone)
  After a lot of tinkering with the graphics setting I finally managed to get an average 30 fps and 
 now I can even play the game with 40 fps average. what I did was simple. i put textures on high 
 and the rendering to very high. shadow and vehicle density are full. draw distance, I put it to 
 22. the only change I noticed in visuals was really the higher performance! I mean it doesn't matter 
 if you have a 50 draw distance or 22, the game still looks great. finally I put the distance detail 
 on 45. I'm totally honest about what I'm saying and I got results. I still have problem with the 
 quirky shadows but that's something that is supposed to be fixed with a patch.
  Now about the game, IT... IS... AWESOME! It is just what I have been waiting for. It is SO real! 
 the animations, dialogs, the way the cars drive, THE CITY, etc.
  Don't hesitate to buy this game if you haven't played it yet. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eliwodkung
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 3:05 am PT
Review:  When playing the game, the only thing that slacks is the graphics. The shadows are extremely poor. 
 Also, there are quite a few graphics glitches: textures take too long to load, diagonal black/missing 
 stripes on textures. It has a lot of bugs, need high system requirement, use lot of hard disk space 
 for install it and limit to con-fig graphic but It makes me fascinatingly to play this game. I 
 spend time more than 10 Hours per day to play this game. I enjoy drive a motorcycle around the 
 city and hit the other car. I like Physic system of this game . I think this is the best game in 
 this years. I hope that Rock star will make GTA V on PC. Sorry my English is bad.
  
  My System
  Windows XP SP3
  CPU AMD X2 5000+
  RAM 3GB Bus 800
  VGA Geforce 8800 GS 640MB
 
  FPS Average 20 "Not good and not bad" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J2TheB
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2008 2:48 am PT
Review:  I've waited about a year for this game to come to the PC, knowing that no matter what the developers 
 said about it NOT coming to the PC, it would (greed gets the better of developers) and well here 
 it is. Quite the sight for sore eyes...
  
  Best Features:
  New taxi/train system
  In-game internet
  Mobile phones (that can even be customized!)
  Improved Shooting/fighting 
 system.
  Duck and Cover system.
  Great characters.
  An almost perfect replica of New York City, which you can 
  explore at your leisure. 
  Great 
 music, entertaining radio and the ability to import your own.
  Improved Police Work System.
  
  Worst Features.
  PC Port is buggy and graphics is unstable
 
  Frame rates can drop pretty quickly.
  Not as much variety or character customization as GTA SA.
  No more Ambulance or Fire fighting 
 Jobs.
  Social Club feature that is atrocious and absolute rubbish (PC)
  Controlling Helicopters is a pain with the mouse.
  SecuROM Virus/Spyware.
  Windows LIVE (Microsoft 
 is playing big-brother again)
  
  To summarize this game, the sound is brilliant!, the story is brilliant, characters brilliant, 
 gameplay is great, and graphics, not so great. 
  
  Personally I was more relieved to hear that it was the game that was broken and not my pc, I almost 
 shat myself after buying a new graphics card for this game and seeing how bad it was running. Let's 
 just hope this "patch" their promising will fix everything, so Rockstar, take your time and fix 
 the game or lose HONEST customers.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oggy1985
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 1:09 am PT
Review:  I played every GTA title on the PC and just love the series well, at least until now. I couldn't 
 dream of giving a GTA title less than a 9.0 score, but everything is possible, and here is why.
 
  
  First of all they pushed the release date for the PC way back (compared to consoles) . After that 
 they claimed that one of the reasons for that is because they want to polish the game for the PC, 
 check for bugs and make it great and we said: OK, that is worth waiting, it is our beloved GTA. 
 But then the game came and the troubles begun. First of all installation process is one of the 
 most horrible things I've seen in my life and I never want to go through such a process again! 
 You have to create hotmail e-mail account, register to R* social club, create Windows LIVE account 
 (ehm  for consoles it is ok, but WTF is that needed for PC?!?) and bind those two together All 
 that process + starting the game is so confusing and frustrating that I spent over 1h trying to 
 register the game, and one of my good friends who already went through hell has been helping me 
 to do this and that. In one word: FRUSTRATING! But this is not the part where the pain will be 
 washed away with the taste of good game. This is the part where all the bugZ start to come to light. 
 Graphic driver problems, audio problems, library problems, login problems and not to mention that 
 for lots of gamer you can't be logged into R* social club to play the game (dough game prompts 
 you two to three times to login to R* S. C.) but if you do that you'll get one of the famous errors.
 
  
  To move on. The game play you'll experience isn't so PC as they hyped everywhere that it will be. 
 And not to mention graphic problems the game has with both ATI and Nvidia. Not to mention that 
 it doesn't support SLI (at least 4 now, but they promised they'll fix that  I hope!) .
  
  Now for the game. Radio stations for which the game was famous for (one of the reasosn) were good 
 songs and hits you could listen to, but this time they are nowhere near the stations from previous 
 titles. Further on you have to constantly maintain "respect" with friends (take them to dinners, 
 bowling, clubs, drinking) which is just pure pain in the but! And not to mention irritating mobile 
 phone that is constantly ringing and your socially crippled friends calling you to go and have 
 a drink with them. To move on, no safe houses to buy, no garages (ok, there are parking places) 
 You can't enter  of the restaurants, gas stations and other buildings. They said that the map 
 size from this title is going to be smaller compared to previous ones, but that you will be able 
 to do more stuff, like enter almost every building, rooftop Well, I don't see that part! It is 
 big as always just with fever things to do. Not to mention that when you proceed with the game 
 and move to another island you'll have to travel waaay back to first one to satisfy social needs 
 of your friends  disgusting & annoying simultaneously!
  
  I don't know could be pointed out as good in the game  only that it is a GTA title with GTA game 
 style. Most of the things have been seen in the old titles. Graphic is good, but with the bugs 
 it is not that enjoyable.
  
  To sum it up here are the scores:
  Graphics: 9 (with bugs 6)
  Sound: 8 (radio 4)
  Game play: 7
  Story: 8
  GTA feel: 7.5
 
  
  To make it short, try the title, loose the nerves, go back to some old GTA title and hope/wait 
 for R* to fix all (or most of) the bugs and enjoy the game ;)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PET_
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 12:56 am PT
Review:  First of all, the game runs pretty nice on my system. I have an GeForce 9600GT (512mb) , 2GB ram, 
 AMD Athlon 64x2 Dual 5000+ that runs at 2.6 GHz.
  
  I'm playing the game at 1280x1024, medium textures, high rendering and about 25 on View Distance 
 & Details. The game looks nice and it runs at about 20fps. Sometimes it drops to 16 or so but it's 
 ok.
  
  The game has a lot of improvements. I saw accidents on the street that are not provoked by me. 
 I saw a guy robing another guy, the police came after him. If you hit a guy you can see blood on 
 your car. The physics are great... this game is simply the best in the series.
  
  I havn't spend much time on multiplayer. I saw there are many mods to play. Deathmatch, Team Dathmatch 
 and others. This game will be awasome in multiplayer, after I finish it.
  
  I brought the game over steam. I have no problems with "drunk camera effect" and other problems 
 people with crack complain about and give a bad review...
  
  ... also people comparing this game with Crysis are plain stupid. You can't compare a car with cheese. 
 There are 2 different things. There is no jungle in GTA. There are cars who have to think for themselves, 
 people, sounds, view distance... this is pure CPU power, not graphic usage... so you should use 
 your brain a bit and not start complaining.
  
  In the end, yes, the game needs a patch. The port from the consoles wasn't so great, but people 
 should stop complaining and comparing the game with Crysis. I'm sure after 1-2 patches the game 
 will run ok on medium PC's with a CLEAN WINDOWS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigRedEvil
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  The only complaint i got is the bowling/pool mouse sensativity thing, but I already read that will 
 be adressed in the first patch.
  
  I didnt play this game on the console so this was my first time playing the game. And I got to 
 say, i am just so impressed. It's probably my game of the year. The characters are just so fun 
 to be around, even Brucie, sometimes. I really can relate with Packie, he is my favorite to hang 
 around with.
  
  I have already beat the main storyline, but I might go back and try it again, but take in all of 
 Liberty city, play it a bit slower.
  
  I really don't see why people are complaining about this game and rating it so low. I mean, if 
 your computer can't handle it, you shouldnt of bought it. Also, how is it the game or the developers 
 fault that YOUR PC can't handle it. I had a friend over who has the 360 version and he says it 
 looks better on my computer and I am running it at MEDIUM, haha. Game of the year man, or century, 
 either one is fine :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReneRumberg
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand how people with their 1GB of Video RAM and 3GHz Quad Cores etc are not able 
 to run this game even with 1280x1024 and High settings. Actually I know where is the problem. Problem 
 is about the Social Club. When I'm playing with logged in to the Social Club, then my fps drops 
 below 30 and it runs slowly. When I'm playing with offline account, signed out from Social Club, 
 I get fps over 40 and it is so smooth. SO CREATE A OFFLINE ACCOUNT FOR SINGLE PLAYER!!!! I'm running 
 this game with my 8800GT 512MB and C2D E8400 3GHz and I'm using 1280x1024 resolution with High/medium 
 settings (View Distance: 25
  Detail Distance: 37) and I get fps over 40. I can even max traffic density out and Holy shi* guys. 
 That is insane. So many cars and people on the street so it almost looks like New York City in 
 real life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: z1xIanG
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  As compare to the previous series, the graphics are really stunning. I did not encounter any laggy 
 graphics like the others. Please adjust your settings!!! It helps a lot! i do not think there is 
 any graphic card out there is able to support the game high graphic settings?
  
  Game play is much easier compared to other series. but there's the addictive part. You do not want 
 to have any more mission impossible like GTA 3! Frustrating!!!
  
  The 2 bad thing about the game I can think of, one of it is that, I can not do as much things as 
 compare to San Andreas. example is the burglary mission. :) hey where does it goes? The other is 
 the long loading time even before the start of the game! Rockstar please do something about it,
 
  
  People that complain so much about the game, is either lazy to tune their graphics settings or 
 their version were pirated! Buy original!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: changsta_chang
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  it's buggy, it requires a really good comp, but it's a good game and I believe patches will make 
 it better. I gave it 9.0 and not 10 because I hated installing all the extra stuff and agree with 
 the "Crysis having better graphics and yet run better than GTA IV" argument, but overall this game 
 is still fun and awesome.
  
  VVVVVVVVVV*IMPORTANT*VVVVVVVVV
  Someone wrote that you need to be online in order to save game. THAT IS NOT TRUE. you can create 
 an OFFLINE Games For Windows Live Account... and it allows you to save game just fine.
  
  My system:
  Intel Core 2 Duo 2.5Ghz
  4GB RAM
  Nvidia 8800M GTX
  Windows Vista 64bit
  
 
  some tips if you are having performance issues.... try turning down the resolution, i found that 
 doing that decreases ur video memory usage the most.... then decrease draw distance and distance 
 detail 
::::::

::::::
UserName: senchean
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  I have waited for GTA IV ever since it came out on X Box and PS3. After playoing thrrough a third 
 of the game on X Box I knew that if it did come out on pc it would be a system hog. All you have 
 to do is look at how many threads of action the game has to process and you can tell that it will 
 require a lot of processing power from both the graphics card and the CPU. When the requirements 
 came out people should have read them and been honest with themselves about the power of their 
 machines. Given the amount of processing power that is necessary to run the game, the minimum system 
 specs announced by Rockstar are not enough to run the game at the performance levels consumers 
 were expecting. When you look at the game on PS3 or X Box 360 Common Sence tells you that it will 
 be a resource hog.
  
  I am currently running a 3.1 Dual Core Amd processor, an EVGA 9800 GTX+ Video Card with 512 MB 
 of ram, and originally 2 gigs of ram when I first installed the game. I was able to run everything 
 at about 30 to 40 percent and it looked as good if not better than the X Box version. Due to unrelated 
 issues with my old motherboard I have installed a new one and am now running 4 gigs of ram. I am 
 aware that the choke point for my rig is my processor, and I will soon be upgrading to a 2.4 Amd 
 Phenom Quad-core processor which will allow better performance. I upgraded my video card from a 
 Geforce 7900 to my 9800 because I knew my old card would barely run the game. This was Common Sense. 
 Most of the people giving the worst reviews either just meet the minimum requirements or don't 
 meet them at all. Or, they meet or exceed the requirements by using off brand equipment that Rockstar 
 hasn't been able to program for yet. This is not the fault of Rockstar it is the fault of the consumer.
 
  
  With that said I will say, I don't like the fact that GTA IV uses Securom which is the most abysmal 
 piece of software protection I have ever seen because it is such a hinderance to installation. 
 I am iffy about the game itself setting a limit on the graphics settings you use based upon what 
 it thinks your system can handle. I don't like having to sign in to BOTH Games for Windows Live 
 and Rockstar Social club. Not being able to save without signng in to Windows Live was a bigmistake 
 and whoever made that decision should be fired. And there are some graphical problems in game that 
 have nothing to do with the machine. But because people are careless, are not honest with themselves, 
 and don't read system specs, a great game and complany are being dragged through the mud. This 
 isn't right and future consumers should know that about half of the problems cited on this site 
 are due to consummer error rather than Rockstar. When I first loaded the game it crashed. But that 
 was MY fault because I didn't have service pack 3 installed for Windows XP. It was not the fault 
 of Rockstar for me making an assumption that my computer already had it installed. My best advice 
 for people who are thinking of buying the game is to check the system specs at either 
  http://www. gamesforwindows. com/en-US/Games/Pages/grandtheftautoiv. aspx
  or http://www. rockstargames. com/IV/#? page=pc. 
 
  
  If you don't meet or only meet the minimum requirements either don't expect the game to run well 
 or don't by the game. Upgrade your system to meet or exceed the recommended requirements as much 
 as possible and you should be fine (use name brand parts as much as possible) . As far as the rest 
 of the issues, patches will be out soon to address most of them. And for those of you who read 
 this and say I shouldn't have to upgrade my computer you are wrong. It is the PC gaming industry 
 that drives inovation and is responsible for even the console gaming market. When you game on a 
 PC you either keep up woth the innovation or you don't play games on PC.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: inferna_hermit
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 7, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  i am a GTA Series Fanboy but ....
  What The Hell is wrong with Rockstar ?
  after all this time only a port for PC gamer ?
  i played this game on xbox360 and it was awesome 
 great game but i count down days too see PC version of the game and see the Improvements. Now Improvment 
 :
  
  Great Car 3d models much more better than 360 version. worst 3d charecter model than 360 version. better 
 distance than 360 and worst shadows than 360 however the 360 version shadows are awful.
  game options didnt work well and you cant save your graphic settings every time you start the game 
 it's on default graphic setting. great gameplay with xbox360 controller and great story too but 
 major graphic problems make it bad bad bad.
  some texture not even load in game some bulding look like paper and some of them look great ,no 
 AA in the game not even enabled in nVidia control panel. new Beta nVidia driver is recommended becuase 
 it' helps so much in my pc look well with it but problems is still the same .SLI problems ,Texture 
 problems ,AA Problems, Shadow Problems, i hope they relaese the patch as soon as it's possible but 
 i guess it can't fix the AA and shadow Problems maybe they fix Errors and game crashes (i don't 
 have any) and texture problems.
  Rockstar Rulez
  Rockstar Sucks
  i dont know !
  i give GTA IV PC Version 1 out of 10 if the patch slove the problem i will give it 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christinme1234
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 7, 2008 12:08 pm PT
Review:  On crysis I can get a good average of 60 fps on my system with graphics a step below the best. 
 This is saying a lot for a game that has the best graphics yet. Then i play GTA4 not expecting 
 any kind of problems with performance... and to my dismay the game runs horrible. 
  
  WTF were you guys thinking when you made this game. The GTA series started on the PC and it is 
 the PC that made this game the famous series of games ever. Now us loyal PC customers who have 
 supported the game since day one are getting kicked in the face by this new installment. Seriously... you 
 think this is going to help your business by stepping on the people that supported you. Obviously 
 the ratings are extremely low on the user base. I don't know how the gaming websites rate you so 
 high because the game sucks. Maybe it is because the gaming website's ratings are based off of 
 how much money you give them? Dirty whores.
  
  You do realize that the world is in a recession right now and if people buy your games at all it 
 will be heavily based on reviews by other people. The PC people have spoken and they give your 
 game crappy scores. What does that say. Not to mention that you created this game for the consoles 
 first and then PC. Have you not learned that games ported from PC to console play much better than 
 games ported from console to PC? This is a duh and i would figure 'intelligent' game designers 
 would realize this but I guess not. All this wait for a console to PC version and the game sucks? 
 I have a lot better specs than PS3 or XBOX and the game looks like crap and I get a horrible fps 
 and performance. 
  
  Not to mention this game would have a much lower score if it were not for the other GTA games you 
 have written. I think those that give the game 6 and 7 give such a score because of the creators 
 reputation. 
  
  All of this and I am not even going into the horrible gameplay. Sure the physics are good, but 
 I would rather have GTA: SA physics and graphics and have the game run more smoothly. 
  
  If you are new to the series don't get this game. Go get fallout 3 or something else. This game 
 is not worth the $50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imecs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 11:44 pm PT
Review:  In my opinion this game is beatiful , sure it has many bugs , but that`s not something new in the 
 GTA series , the storyline , the people on the streets how act like REAL PEOPLE , the damage on 
 the cars , and everything else that is in this game is beatyful , there are so many things in this 
 game , that make this game look so real , that havent been before in any other game , let`s be 
 serious since when do all care about the graphics so much ? i thought everybody complained about 
 the story of crysis and Far cry 2 ( the same thing on and on , killing someone ) , and said that 
 it is better to have a good storyline not good graphics . It`s very true that this game uses very 
 much resources , but those who complain about this thing , its obvious that they didn`t pay to 
 much attention when they played . I am really enjoying this game . IMO it`s one of the greatest 
 games of 2008 . And stop complaining about the bugs , every game has bugs when it comes out . And 
 those who don`s realise why this game is using so much resources , than you don`t know anything 
 about COMPUTER GAMES , buy yourself a console . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frantz22
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  Since everyone already knows about the performance issues of this game, I won't let that be the 
 focus of this review.
  If you've played the previous GTA games, you should pretty much know what to expect here. It's 
 easy to find yourself playing for a few hours before you know it. The quests in the game seem to 
 be just the right length and difficulty to keep you entertained enough to begin "just one more" 
 quest.
  The graphics on this game are nice, but I wouldn't say mind-blowing. GTA IV has done a great job 
 with paying attention to the little details in the environment. For example, in many sections of 
 the city, you might see random litter being blown around in the air and on the ground. One thing 
 that was very impressive was the movement within the car while driving. The physics of the car 
 being moved around also move the characters within the car in the appropriate direction. If a person 
 is talking in the car or on the cell phone during a quest, you might see hand motions or the phone 
 to his/her ear. It was little graphical improvements such as these that seem to make the game much 
 more complete.
  The sound in this game is insane. The voices are superbly done. The environment noises make it 
 seem like a real city. One interesting thing seemed to be the variations of a conversation Niko 
 may have with the same person on the same quest. If you attempt a quest with a person in the car, 
 he/she might strike up a conversation. If you fail the quest and reattempt it, the conversation 
 doesn't necessarily have the same dialogue. Props to Rockstar for the sound in this game.
  Overall, this game is a blast. If the other games in the GTA series were enjoyable, this one is 
 definitely a must-have. There is a ton of content that will keep any gamer busy for a long time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoldenPrimrose
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 7, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  Hello rockstar. I've got a question to ask you:
  What does GTA IV have more than crysis that makes it not to reach the same frame rate my and others' 
 PCs reach on high settings? Is that only a subtle mistake you've made or it's that you have been 
 fooling around these months?
  Well maybe our systems are not enough GTA READY yet! or "this game is made for future systems" 
 as you said, well what kind of future game have you created that doesn't even have AA settings 
 to configure? 
  well I guess you're just making a fool of us. You must have made enough money from it's sale on 
 XBOX-360 and PS3 that you've forgotten that GTA was born on PC and it was WE, PC gamers that made 
 it famous. But now you just put us aside and After 7 months of waiting this is what we gain: A bug 
 game! Maybe you've been working on creating the bugiest thing ever! right? If that is right then 
 I admit you've done a great job. we thank you a lot!
  maybe next time...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wurd
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 8, 2008 8:49 am PT
Review:  Forcing you to install software you don't want, create unwanted accounts and be online to save 
 is totally unethical and we should all boycott these games. These companies are spying on your 
 game usage and should be prosecuted under the data protection act.
  
  They say this system insures good game quality and deters pirates. Absolute rubbish, it's fuelled 
 by greed and corperate pressure to know every about you. GTA4 quality is appalling and the pirates 
 already have downloads available so clearly their argument sucks.
  
  Microsoft, EA etc are all trying to turn the PC into an XBox so they can gather personal and usage 
 data and control what software you run. They think they have the right to do this because you're 
 playing their game. How long will it be until they try to start chargng for online play like the 
 XBox?
  
  And the less said about SecuROM malware the better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bemushroomed
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 2:02 am PT
Review:  I bought GTA IV on Xbox360 and even though it is not the best game in the series (GTA: SA is, imo) 
 it is still a great game. I'm more used to keyb/mouse controlls so that is mainly why i bought 
 the PC version, i also wanted better graphics of course. 
  
  I have a Intel C2D @ 4.2GHz, 4870x2, 4GB RAM, Vista32. This game is twice as demanding as Crysis 
 - which runs fine at highest settings (meaning it runs 50-60 FPS average) . This game runs at about 
 35 FPS which is playable but still disapointing with the hardware that i have.
  
  The story in GTA IV has a more serious tone than before, the settings are less cartoony and more 
 greyish/realstic.. The characters are not very likeable, Niko, the character you play especially.. 
 The missions are not as good as those in GTA: SA.
  What's more fun in this game is the added physics which can be really hilarious and brutal at times. 
 
  
  Graphically the 360 version has, at least, two things that the PC version lacks.
  
  * A depth of field filter that really helps against the jaggies. On PC you can press "p" to add 
 a filter that will blur _everything_ on 360 it blurs the distance only which is better because 
 here's where the flickering saw tooth jaggies are and still you have good detail on your character 
 and the surroundings closest to you.
  
  * on 360 you can turn around and the engine will not pop-up or or rather "draw" objects and buildings. 
 On PC it does this all the time. Turn around and it have to draw the buildings, very ugly and immersion 
 breaking. It doesnt matter what settings you use.
  
  Overall i have mixed reactions about this game. You can have better view distance and more traffic 
 on PC, but this game still looks better on the 360 because of the things i described above + the 
 PC version has many bugs too, textures are disappearing, sometimes, e. g the cars will lack textures 
 so you can see inside them.
  
  If you have a really good computer and you haven't played this game on the 360, then it could be 
 worthy purchase, still. But you should probably wait and see if R* releases more than 1 patch (they're 
 working on one but it doesnt seem to adress the engine that much) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ken2_basic
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 13, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  First when this game got released on pc it was very crappy... But since the nvidia drivers got 
 released its pretty good .. Fps fix graphics improvement.. I got this game on my ps3 en pc en i 
 gotta admit the pc version looks better but you need a powerfull computer to run it.. But maybe 
 in the future rockstar will release a patch so that it meets his requirements .
  The story is good its realistic in every way.
  The multiplayer got some improvements there are 
 more clothes to wear compared to the x360 en ps3 version so i guess that is fun 2.
  Its a good game to kill your time. So all we can hope is that rockstar willl release a patch very 
 soon that will fix the frame rate problems.
  En some bugs that are included in the pc version so for now all we can do is wait.. 
  But nuff 
 said i gave this game
  a 9.5 en not a 10 because it still is not complete for the pc but still very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enigmaeno
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 7, 2008 1:32 am PT
Review:  I bought GTA IV on Steam; they haven't given me a refund yet but I suspect they will. I don't know 
 whether it's Rockstar or Take Two that is to blame for this disaster of a port. Do not risk buying 
 this game. It is more than likely that it will run on your machine very poorly. I have a Core2Duo 
 e6550, 2 gigs ram, MSI 8800GTS. I set the game to recommended settings (which is pretty much the 
 highest) and it looks HORRIBLE. Textures are blurry/unreadable/missing. Every edge is jagged. Frame 
 rate is terrible. There are dozens of errors that many many many people are encountering. To those 
 who have bought it, return it. It's incredibly insulting to gamers to release such a broken port. 
 I've played GTA IV before so I know it's an amazing game, but during the entire 15 minutes I stomached 
 the game this time, 95% of it what spent in agony at the graphical glitches. Then Rockstar comes 
 out and says that a "small number" of players have these problems? STOP INSULTING US. WE JUST GAVE 
 YOU MONEY FOR NOTHING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohsen_2006
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 1:00 am PT
Review:  As far as the game itself goes id give it a 9 or 10 but the game as it is is broken and combined 
 with the blatant lies by R*, this would have to be the most abominable port of a game ever.
  Anyone playing this game is sure to come across the graphics issues. The shadows flicker and are 
 completely annoying. I'm running a dual-quad core Xeon with geforce 9800 gtx sli and 2gig ram the 
 game flows great, but textures are missing on certain angles and the shadows are like dark strobe 
 Some are saying that "this is a next gen game", I call BS on this statement, how can a current 
 console game be "next gen"?
  Both of these systems stated above go way beyond the gaming power of current consoles.
  Now the 
 really fun part is this, the box also clearly shows the nvidia logo on it and yet the game is not 
 yet optimised for nvidia sli but it currently support ATI crossfire. WTF?
  
  The textures are very bland even with the texture setting turned up to full and the sound also 
 needs to be turned right up.
  lights! I said that I mean a lot of bugs. This game needs patch and that quickly
  this game is 
 very very port on x-360 for pc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popred
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 7, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  This is the only GTA I really got into all the other GTA games were like non serious games that 
 did not force you to play the story mode. As soon as I tried to play the other GTA games I would 
 start causing total chaos until the military had to come to stop me.
  
  But this game makes you care about the characters and you want to progress to find out what happens. 
 I would like to compare this game with Mafia rather than the other GTA games and like this more 
 realistic approach to things.
  
  Yes this game has unforgivable technical problems but they do not destroy the game, and remember 
 technical issues can be fixed and I am sure they will be, but we need to be patient and calm, and 
 not rate this masterpiece of a game 1/10.
  
  If you did not know, this game is more processor dependent [Quad Core   Dual Core] rather than 
 graphics card dependent so overclocking your processor can make a big difference, and also using 
 the "C:\Program Files\Rockstar Games\Grand Theft Auto IV\LaunchGTAIV. exe" -norestriction to set 
 whatever quality you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan5973
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 6, 2008 10:27 pm PT
Review:  This is my current setup:
  
  Intel Core i7 Extreme Edition 965 Nehalem 3.2GHz 
  GIGABYTE GA-EX58-UD5 LGA 1366 Intel X58 ATX Intel Motherboard 
  CORSAIR DOMINATOR 6GB Triple 
 Channel Desktop Memory 
  2X BFG Tech GeForce GTX 280
  2X Patriot 128GB SATA II Internal Solid state disk 
  Microsoft Windows Vista 64-Bit Home Premium
 
  
  ============================================
  
  The game performed very well on any setting but crashed every 10 minutes with this error message:
 
  
  GTA IV FATAL ERROR: RESC10
  
  ============================================
  
  Grand Theft Auto IV support website - information on error codes encountered during installation 
 or gameplay stated:
  
  RESC10 - Out of video memory - Please re-boot your system
  
  ============================================
  
  That means there's a video memory leak. I exhausted 
 every possible solution to try and actually be able to play the game with no avail. The last time 
 I had problems with a game to where it was unplayable with no resolve was when I tried to play 
 Vanguard on Windows Vista when it first came out. When I went to the GTA Forums and saw nothing 
 but mass confusion and frustrated players, I took the game back. Thanks, but no-thanks Rockstar...
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: obitus_sum
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 6, 2008 8:45 pm PT
Review:  I had waited for this game on the PC for years, and was excited by the reviews that it had received 
 for the consoles. It was a very ambitious work, with a lot to do in Liberty city in terms of mini 
 games, pass times and activities. 
  
  However, it all falls apart when you actually try to install or run the game. First, installation 
 took over 2.5 hours to actually get the game to install and run, with getting the XP service pack 
 3 installed, trying to run the game only to find out that I needed a BETA graphics driver from 
 NVidia. Even with the driver, mirrored surfaces still show no texture!!! 
  
  Now, each time I start the game it takes 4-5 minutes to actually get in. The Social Club and Microsoft 
 Live seem to need to run to even load or save the game in single player ... I'm confused, I had 
 though that connecting online was only for initial registration. But when I am not logged in the 
 game will not load properly for me. I do not feel like letting Microsoft know how much I play this 
 game, or what I do in the game so I am annoyed. 
  
  In terms of graphics settings, the game does not remember any of them so I need to reset my setting 
 each time I load (even if I had closed out gracefully from the last session) . 
  
  I am going to put this game on the shelf and return it next weekend... I am playing a GAME for 
 entertainment, not to spend hours on end researching drivers and tweaking my computer. 
  
  And I am definitely not impressed by the IGN interview with R* employees - they definitely make 
 it sound as though the problems are the gamers' fault. I can say that my drivers are all updated, 
 and I have not tweaked my system at all. And Left 4 Dead (which has great graphics) runs very smoothly 
 on my system. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevins3k
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Anyone who's played this game knows what I'm talking about. There are several reasons for my review. 
 Intentionally crap performance designed to sell new hardware. A total regression from past GTA 
 games. Lame online surveillance requirements. You might as well sell yourselves out to EA because 
 you are all dirty prostitutes! I would not encourage anyone to buy this. These games used to serve 
 as novel fun and interesting social commentary. But there is really no reason why GTA games should 
 continue to be made or sold. The only social insight I take from this game is that the gaming industry 
 is selling out and that gamers aren't smart enough to avoid an empty reification of a dead game 
 series! I encourage all socially and financially responsible gamers to boycott this series or to 
 at least to avoid this iteration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamerad
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Over all GTA IV for the PC turns from being something somewhat dream filled to a complete nightmare. 
 Rockstar is now taking the curse EA style approuch to their online PC games, with miles of red 
 tape and restrictions to players freedoms. I could care less about leader boards and awards/achievements 
 I just want to have fun, but the restricting login systems, Windows Live, and the fact you after 
 creation are pretty much stuck as the same person for the end of existence without going through 
 days of annoying support emails and questions for a simple name change, something PC games normally 
 have the freedom to do any time they wish within seconds, is now blash down. 
  
  What is worse is the fact the game isn't that amazing to look at when I played it on my PS3, one 
 woudl think a few tweeking on the settings and screen resolutions down would allow someone with 
 a PC suitable for maxed out graphics just a year or two ago to play the game and yet have it look 
 reasonably good. Sadly no, though the graphics on the lowest settings do look nicer than GTA Vice 
 City in some areas and definity San Andreas, it is still horriable. What gets me is how the characters 
 seem to be blury around the edges but yet there is no graphic options that give players the freedom 
 to tweek more than just a hand fullof things to improve prefermance without nerfing the whole game 
 back to the stone age. 
  
  Outside of the things that annoyed me the game is still quite fun, controls took a bit to get used 
 to, and default Heli controls are down right evil, and the mutliplayer character options feel as 
 though they were given a nerf and an upgrade. First online game was a joy, I won the round on Deathmatch, 
 PC GTA people *laughs at you* I guess i'm more experianced then I thought from the PS3 version 
 despite I rarely did death match. PC maps are also upgraded a bit, players can easily get up into 
 higher locations, more ladders spred out through the map is a nice improvement allowing for more 
 access to roof tops without some form of Helicopter. Despite the lowest settings you will not be 
 restricted online because though view range exist, even on low you can still see people, and snipe 
 them giving people with a higher end machine no advantages with having a higher view range then 
 yourself. Means to communicating without a head set is another plus, too many ports to PC resently 
 also had no means of chat without a head set so thats another plus. 
  
  All and all, if you don't own GTA IV, you will find some joy for this game, if you have a PC which 
 was considered good just not so long ago, if you have it on the 360 or PS3 already and want to 
 have the better multiplayer experiance, you may also like it, I say may, I'm starting to hate it, 
 but heck everything grows on me Mercenaries 2 did to the point I like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sik567
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar has let us down. This game is so buggy and stupid i can't even believe it. First problem 
 comes during the installation: you are FORCED to install windows live. There is no option not to 
 install them. Then, you need a really powerful video card, or else the game itself will not let 
 you play on higher graphics! Also, the graphics take a lot of time to load, they are buggy and 
 there is no anti-aliasing! This game looks like a failed attempt to convert a console game to PC. And 
 it is a huge failure. It lacks so much San Andreas had. No gang territories, no tanks. Also, this 
 game is HUGE. 18gb of disk space needed. The game itself is 15 gb. Also what ticks me off is the 
 fact that modding is almost impossible, because the source code is a nightmare.
  
  I recommend you to buy this game when you find it at a reasonable price. Just wait a few months 
 and it should go down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fvanraan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  PC Games shouldn't get a bad mark, just because the reviewers computer isn't up to it. It's not 
 fair. I had to lower the graphical settings. But I'm not complaining.
  
  Liberty city is still the living, breathing city I expected it to be. It still is beautifully designed. 
 I did miss the anti-aliasing from time to time, but the gameplay value doesn't suffer from it. 
 I find it a bit weird though, that there is anti-aliasing in the cutscenes (which btw, seem a bit 
 blurry to me) .
  
  do believe that this is a great game. People are either too lazy too lower the graphical settings, 
 or too dumb. But once you lower them just a bit, you'll notice the city still looks great. Besides, 
 the gameplay is way better with a nice framerate.
  
  I love this game. And everyone who gives this a mark less than 7 out of 10 should cut some emotions 
 about perfomance issues aside.
  
  My specs:
  Intel Core 2 duo E8400 3.0 Ghz
  4 gig
  512 mb Geforce 9800 GT
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3nth0rn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  First of all - I was waiting for that game long enough. When the first trailer came out I was happy 
 as never before! I like most of us had very high expectations for this title. But then Rockstar 
 announced it will be released exclusively on PS3 and XBOX360 so no PC version... Luckily non-console 
 owners got their game 7 months later. Now lets cut the history a break. The game is released and 
 I could get my hands on it. Here are my feelings after 5 Hours of GTA 4 PC version.
  
  1. Installing
  Well... its just as they say. It takes time. Very fuc*ing lots of time! First 
 you have to install all the 'third party programs' like Rockstar Social Club (sic!) then the Games 
 for Windows Live (if you don't already have it installed - Gears of War had it for instance) . Then 
 you have to sign up in Rocstar Social Club - for me that was like walking in the fog. I really 
 had no idea what was I doing - click here, go there, sign here, wait 10 minutes till you receive 
 activation code, go there, do that... WHAT FOR?! And the game installation hasn't even begun! Anyway 
 - after the 30 minutes of struggling with it I finally got the 'Install GTA 4' window. The game 
 takes 18GB of your free disk.
  
  2. First opening
  So the game is already set up and you can play right? I remember reading all the stuff about critical 
 errors that I was 100% that it will crash the moment I start it. Well... first the SecuROM kicked 
 in... I will not comment that. Then I got a black screen. 'Yeah... it died...' I thought. But then 
 I got the opening credits! Then the menu! Boo-yah! 3. The game
  Well... The opening looks nice. It feels just like a movie! I won't say anything about Nico Bellic 
 or the plot cause I really don't want to spoil the fun. Lets talk about some real stuff like... 
 graphics and performance. Well... there has to be some patch cause right now this is some bulls*it 
 GTA 4 looks good bot not astonishing. I am running on
  Intel Core2 Quad Q9450
  NVIDIA GeForce 9800 GTX/9800 GTX+
  3328MB RAM
  Windows XP Professional with Service Pack 3
 
  my game settings are 1600/1080 Medium and Highest and I get like 30fps? Seriously - What the FU*K 
 The game gets choppy sometimes and there is a problem with the textures not loading fast enough.
 
  Rockstar! What PC's were you testing it at? Blue Gene/L? I am patiently waiting for a patch. There 
 is no way that you guys can't fix this!
  
  4. The end
  I give Grand Theft Auto 4 a big round 9.5. It should get a 10 when the patch comes out and I'll 
 get 40-50fps. Overall - like DeathsFatalPlan wrote 'Behind the few faults lies a great game'. There 
 are just some things that you'll love about this game for. But you have to have a powerful machine 
 to fire it up first... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gosova
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 6, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  This game Blows, it is just a waste of time.
  all other GTAs are way way better than this one
  
  1- waste of time 
  2- waste of money
 
  3- full of bugs
  4-the story is stupid
  5-Boring missions
  
  
  i would like to rate this game with 0.1
  
  so its JUNK! the game is about riding a car and 
 delivering people like Taxi
  yes, what else? nothing.
  
  All cars has the same control even the bikes. these vehicles has the same stupid driving control
 
  
  why is that?? what do they have in mind?
  
  srsly its a shame not a game.
  
  Rockstar make a game or don't to do not make your reputation on the ground
  
  i am very angry 
 cus i was waiting this game long time 
  and now they release a garbage. sorry tbut thats my opinion.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: huangzhihao
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  PC is different than Xbox and PS3. When reviewing a PC game we consider many things like performance, 
 compatibility, crashes and bugs... which are almost none-existent in console gaming. For this game, 
 simply considering the gameplay i might give it a "9", but for PC, GTA IV is extremely frustrating 
 and annoying. There is major performance issue with the game. (i have a good PC with a 9800gtx+) 
 You get constant slowdowns depends where you are. The Rockstars Game Social Club is simply troublesome 
 since many of us jsut want to play the single player without going through so much trouble just 
 to get the game started. However, the worst is the windows live... i don even know where to start... i 
 mean when did PC gaming "evolve" so much now we have to sign in online first jsut to save our single 
 player game. Moreover, all the anti-hacking codes, along with windows live, simply prevent us creating 
 trainers and our own modified game, considerably limiting the replay value of the game and take 
 away PC's advantage completely. The old days when we can do whatever with our own purchased games 
 are gone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MacUserUK
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 6, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  When I found out that GTA4 was coming to the PC, I was over the moon, I couldn't wait. But that 
 delight soon turned to dismay as soon as I installed the game. I have *never* come across a game 
 where I could sign up for two online services, WTF! The installer, or should I say Rockstar, try 
 to shove their Social Club network and Windows Live services down your throat. Sure, you can play 
 the game without them, but there is no option to *not* install them or by pass them all together. 
 Windows Live *must* be installed to play this game also. The whole installation process was a bit 
 of a pain in the butt, but I did manage to get the game going.
  
  Once I had the game running, yet another con. It seems that your PC needs an extremely powerful 
 graphics card, and the more memory it has the better; I recommend at least 512MB. I have a ATI 
 Radeon HD2600 Pro 256MB (not crap by any standards) and the card has a hard time with the game. 
 
  
  Unfortunately, you are limited when it comes to playing around with the graphics settings. For 
 example, if you push your card in the settings, some of the sliders will not increase any further. 
 So, I have to play the game in 800x600 mode, unbelievable. I am unable to increase the resolution 
 any further and there is no override because displaying at the same time is a 'Warning' saying 
 that the current settings are exceeding the limitations of my graphics card. If that's true, there 
 must only be a handful of graphic cards that can play this game, and I am not talking about the 
 Mobility chips either.
  
  When playing the game, the only thing that slacks is the graphics. The shadows are extremely poor 
 and make the game look like a heavy beta. Also, there are quite a few graphics glitches: textures 
 take too long to load, diagonal black/missing stripes on textures. 
  
  If I didn't know any better, I would say that this is a port of the console version of the game 
 and it shows. It's a pity that the platform that made the GTA franchise to what it is today has 
 to suffer and it's a clear indication that Rockstar didn't want to make a PC version of GTA4 from 
 the ground up. Pity. What do I have to do, wait 5 years so by then, the PC hardware will have the 
 capability to play the game properly? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awakendjay
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 6, 2008 2:52 am PT
Review:  This is a great game, but what rockstar did to this game is horrid for the PC......... installation 
 problems......... no anti aliasing....... and worse of all they coded this game so freaking hard 
 that no modder will ever be able to mod this game......
  
  Rockstar you should be ASHAMED of yourself
  
  Just look at the communities response... you guys 
 i will never buy from you again
  
  NEVER
  
  bad Horrible
  Stupidly optimized game for the PC
  
  Rockstay you used to be a good company? what happened?
 
  
  got a lil soft on us? you are no longer what you used to be
  
  i hope you can make up for it with a patch.............
  
  But the wound is deep... you will 
 need a big bandadge
  
  no ... even worse you will need stiches !!!
  
  
  
  HOW COULD you NOT add anti aliasing?
  
  Are you guys M0RoNs? 
  
  1diots? 
  
  $tupid 
 ?
  
  WTF. is wrong with you rockstar? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beastoz
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 6, 2008 2:31 am PT
Review:  This is one of the worst games I played these days. I excepted much more from studio like Rockstar 
 games. First problem in this game is optimization... This is the worst optimization since Gothic 
 3. Second prob is every gamer nightmare and that is a lot and when I said that I mean a lot of bugs. This 
 game needs patch and that quickly. I hope it will be enough to save this game and until the patch 
 comes out, you better stay in your house away from this game. And for the end I would like to say 
 something about options... you see when you go in the options for Display or graphic options you 
 cant set everything on high cause Rockstar have new system to save your PC, so they 
 give you some stupid limit of graphics settings. My PC is killing machine and I payed very much 
 for it just to play low settings, I mean where is this world going. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeet_shek
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  The game is fine. game play is superb and at its best. And about the graphic it has the best graphics 
 in the GTA series. But the game is unnecessary resource hungry . It don't no why the games which 
 has better graphics then gta4 runs smoothly in a average system but you cant play this game at 
 max setting even if you have a good PC. But this game is not about graphics and other issues it 
 is completely focused on its power packed game play. 
  Game run little slow in my PC but not that much like other peoples are saying. It may be because 
 of bugs. Or other peoples are using crack that's why they are getting trouble with the game. 
 
  But as per my view the game is great like its previous installment. If you are a true fan of GTA 
 then it is the right game for you (But you should have a good PC to feed this resource hunger game) . 
 Finally In a single word the game rocks. waiting for the patch ............................. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbodarlau
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 5, 2008 10:29 pm PT
Review:  To be honest I never liked the GTA series. It's just a load of crap that keeps yacking about vast 
 enviroments and a huge freedom of action that seems to suck a lot of gamers in. No GTA game managed 
 to keep me interested and keep playing for more then an hour or so. Here's my personal experience 
 of a GTA game:
  
  I start the game, first thing I get a car. I go for a drive... run some people over; I get out 
 of the car , I start punching some people... eventualy I find a gun... I start shooting like cray 
 all the old ladies walking near me. I get bored... start searching for a nicer, better car ........ 
 I'm doing all the stuff above again and again until I get bored , AGAIN... I try getting a mission 
 and advancing into the storyline. Guess how I start my first mission? I find a car .... Same goes 
 for the second mission... get a car -  run over/shoot target - get back -  next mission - run over/shoot 
 target.....
  
  Where's the freedom? you're always doing the same thing any way you choose to play the fricking 
 game anyway with very small variations.
  
  IMO absurdly overrated. I just hope that GTA 4 screwing up on the PC can open some sealed shut 
 eyes. Don't trust the goddamn media when you want to play a good game... if a game is rated with 
 a 10, and the game comes from a huge producer it most certainly is Hogwash and that rating got 
 pumped up to the max. Games magazines or websites have a huge impact on the sales number of every 
 game depending on a review they make and producers are prepared to pay a lot of money so that the 
 review looks really nice and they can sell a billion copies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jemfest
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Anyone playing this game is sure to come across the graphics issues. The shadows flicker and are 
 completely annoying. I'm running a dual-quad core Xeon with Radeon HD 4800 and the game flows great, 
 but textures are missing on certain angles and the shadows are like dark strobe lights!
  
  I will say the story line is cool, and really enjoy the gameplay, but I'm sorry to say the graphics 
 issues really just make this a non-playable game! Depending on the angle of my view, some obstacles 
 do not show up and my car crashes into them. It's like my car crashed into nothing until I adjust 
 the angle of the view and then I see it was a legit object.
  
  How can they release this and not hang their heads in shame? I sure hope they release a patch to 
 fix these problems... and quickly! Waste of $49.99. Developers - please just wait to release a 
 quality product instead of rushing crap out to meet holiday season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bananadude505
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 13, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  To Anth_14_20004, you obviously have not read my review, my system specs stated below are top of 
 the line so your review is based on ignorance or your pay packet comes from windows/rock star.
 
  
  As far as the game itself goes id give it a 9 or 10 but the game as it is is broken and combined 
 with the blatant lies by R*, this would have to be the most abominable port of a game ever.
  To start with, if you do not have an Internet connection you cannot save the game as you need to 
 log into windows live to do so, (I'm moving house soon and will be with out an Internet connection 
 for a while so I will not be able to load any saved data and play a game I payed for) .
  
  R* states that the game was made for future PC's. This is an out right lie and only shows their 
 contempt for the customer. How can you write code for hardware and operating systems which haven't 
 been invented yet? 
  On the box it says that the game is "enhanced for 64bit multi core". Well a friend of mine has 
 a system running 64bit vista,4 gig RAM ,a water cooled Intel quad overclocked to 3.2gHz with 2x 
 X280nvidia sli and he's getting 15-25 max frames per second with all setting set to medium.
  My system is vista 32bit,3gig RAM, intel core 2 e8400 3.0 gHz, 2x9800gtx sli and I'm getting 15-25 
 fps. on medium settings, If we both change the settings to low get no change in in fps but my friend 
 gets 1 whole extra frame.
  This clearly indicates a problem with coding and optimisation on behalf of R*.
  Some are saying 
 that "this is a next gen game", I call BS on this statement, how can a current console game be 
 "next gen"?
  Both of these systems stated above go way beyond the gaming power of current consoles.
  
  Now 
 the really fun part is this, the box also clearly shows the nvidia logo on it and yet the game is 
 not yet optimised for nvidia sli but it currently support ATI crossfire. WTF?
  
  The textures are very bland even with the texture setting turned up to full and the sound also 
 needs to be turned right up.
  The list of problems go on.
  Hopefully if and when either a nvidia driver or game patch addresses the sli issue this game should 
 hopefully run smoother with better frames but I'M most concerned for those who only have one GPU.
 
  
  Do not buy this game yet, wait to see if a patch or two comes out and check the patch notes to 
 see if they have dealt with any optimization issues.
  I will review this game once R* address the many issues.
  
  
  
  New note: Ive just come 
 back to take another look at the game spot review and they have given this game a 9.0. It is now 
 very clear to me that the people at game spot have been given some kind of payout in order to give 
 it a 9.
  YOU DO NOT NEED THE MOST POWERFULL RIG TO PLAY GTA4, THE CODE OPTIMISATION IS SIMPLY BROKEN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ulvin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  As a counter part to what seems to be the majority here, I've had no problems at all running this 
 game on high settings. Maybe I'm just plain out lucky. The only point of recent criticism from 
 others I've experienced myself is the somewhat weird shadows at full daylight.
  
  If you have a good gaming rig (or if your luck is as good as mine seems to be be) , then this game 
 delivers exactly what I would have expected from a new GTA. The world feels much more alive than 
 previous games. Both combat and driving has been upped quite a bit in quality, driving has never 
 been as fun as it is now in GTA. Wanted levels have been revamped into something much much better 
 than it has ever been before - police chases are quite entertaining in GTA 4.
  
  The game is just packed with hillarious and solid entertainment. For those interrested in seing 
 what I'm running it with on high settings, here goes:
  
  Auzen X-FI Prelude soundcard
  Core 2 Duo 3 GHz (E8400)
  HD 4850 1 GB GFX card
  4 GB ram
  Vista 64 home edition
  
  The 
 Auzen card has done wonders on other demanding games, it removes quite a lot from the CPU whan 
 compared with on board cards. I would guess the cheaper X-FI series from Creative would work miracles 
 as well.
  
  I tried out the game on my work PC, it's equipped with an nVidia 8800 and 4 GB ram but with a substandard 
 CPU and on board soundcard. On my work PC it runs like **** It could look like this game is just 
 as hard on the CPU as it is on GFX cards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameCrapper
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Rockstar has gone the same direction and making the same mistakes as General Motors and other companies. 
 They are greedy and have forgotten where they came from. The PC version of this game is horrible. 
 After the most annoying and time consuming loading of a game in PC gaming history, I find the worst 
 game play of anything I have played. I have a very good system to play on. It plays Crysis flawlessly. 
 This game took forever to load. The validation process is asinine. The video is choppy. The controls 
 and game play are just terrible. Maybe another player can clue me me in here, but now there is 
 no "steer with mouse" option? Driving a vehicle is a joke. Everything you drive in the game is 
 so unrealistic you can hardly drive it because of an over reactive suspension. One looks to be 
 driving a clown car in a circus when going around a corner. Obviously, I haven't played too far 
 in the game yet, but I find the characters rather uninteresting and the over crowded streets more 
 annoying than challenging. (Ya ya I know, Liberty City, New York, blah blah blah) Even the sound 
 tracks SUCK compared to Vice City and San Andreas. The ONLY thing improved in GTA IV are the graphics. 
 I'm not just disappointed, I am pissed. My only hope is that some mods come out to unfu@k what 
 could have been another classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nvr2fst
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Dont even try to use the excuse for poor performance on high end systems when you say the higher 
 settings are for future hardware! We ALL know better! We bought the game now! By the time your 
 supposed future hardware gets here... your game will be played out and forgotten (with the poor 
 performance I might add) . Is this going to be the norm now for poorly coded games? It is getting 
 more and more rampant in the gaming industry. You must think your game has a replayability of years. 
 No we look for the new ones. I bought GTA 4 for the PS3. I am a PC user for the most part but I 
 was so looking forward to the next GTA so I thought I would get it on the console because us PC 
 users as of the last so many years have been getting thrown under the bus with crappy ports and 
 such. The PS3 version is just tollerrable... but that is it. The graphics dont come any where near 
 the PCs possibilities. I can see it coming... I think we all have. The end of PC gaming. The only 
 games I really play on the PS3 are racing and they dont even have what the PC can do. FPSs are 
 for the PC and so is the GTA series. You know it and we know it. The all mighty dollar leads you 
 all. Keep this crap up and you will not get any more of my all mighty dollars. Make this game playable 
 NOW on high graphics for our PCs that SHOULD handle it. I liked RockStar and I did not imagine 
 that when I got this game home that there would be such extreme problems from you guys. Now you 
 want to make excuses, like..."We made this game for the future". Get real and dont insult our intelligence. 
 We are not all idiots!! Go ahead and make your "Games Of The Future" but dont release them until 
 the future or at least put a big label on the front of the box. "THIS IS A FUTURE GAME" and if 
 you play it now on your thousands of dollar PCs..... it will run like crap. Had to vent somewhere. 
 If they give us a good patch I will definatley give it a higher rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 89vhassan
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 5, 2008 4:52 pm PT
Review:  bought the game installed without any problems watched the opeing scene did the first mission saved 
 the game then BAM!!!!
  
  all scenary textures disappeared so with my car floating like its in mid air i phone take 2 support 
 line thier response oh what a shame its because of your driver!!! uninstall old drivers install 
 new drivers load game start new game same crap happens !!!!!
  
  phone take 2 support tell them what i have done they promise to send email asap outlining possible 
 fixes email does not arrive and at all forums i have visted all stating the exact same problem 
 that is the story of my first day with GTA 4 
  
  a big slap in the face and waste of time i think so thank you take 2 and rockstar:) ) )
  
  so 
 what i think will be done about it..... nothing my comp is above the minimum spec and the fps is 
 not great but still playable but having no textures in a game is emm abit difficult to comprehend 
 i dont care if i play on minimum specs i just want the game to at least be playable is that so 
 much to ask??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shayan288
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 5, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Dang! First Bully Scholarship Edition then this, I'm starting to hate Rockstar and the way they 
 are treating their pc gamer customers. Sure this game is good, but seriously, BUGGS ARE EVERYWHERE!!! 
 It is so annoying even if you do have a good computer, it is just so discouraging to only be able 
 to run GTA 4 on medium when you can run crysis warhead on ENTHUSIAST! Oh man. They better release 
 a patch for this game, or they gon' loose a lot of customers.
  
  If you have anything way below an 8800GTX and 4 gigs of ram, then I totally advise you to save 
 your money and not buy this worthless piece of crap.
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  LOL 
 sorry this is all I had to say so, imma jsut put in random gib berish to make it 800 words: D srry.
 
  asdjfhbajsd bhfjkabhsedfk jbawekjfbh blahblahbla hblahaksfvbi auwehvbfhb jblahblahblahblah blahblahblahb 
 lahblahblahb
  aksjrbfgaisj fjsbrfkajsdgvblk jsabdglvkbja
  blahblahblah blahblahblahbla hblahblhajkb hsdkfb askjdf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drentzter
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 5, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  The game just simply will not run properly. After spending ages just trying to get the through 
 the registration I have spent hours trying to get it to run with a reasonable FPS or without it 
 crashing every 5 minutes but I now figure there is nothing I can do. I don't have a really good 
 machine ( 8800GT, Core 2 Duo 1.8Ghz, 4GB memory) but it can run Far Cry 2 and Crysis perfectly. 
 It will need some serious patching to get this to run properly.
  
  This is yet another high profile game that has been realeased on PC without proper testing. So 
 unless you're willing to fork out alot of dosh to buy a descent machine to run this, then dont 
 bother... even better, use the money to buy an xbox or ps3.
  
  If Gamespot gives this a 10/10 then they have lost all journalistic integrity... if they have any 
 left after sacking Gerstmann. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ION_87
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  What is wrong with the people, that keep complaining, that they hate the game because of long installation 
 process, 3rd party programs etc, well it is ****!
  
  The game is great, very great, but many of you keep wining only about the problems, that you encounter, 
 because you have crappy fingers and can't set up the game right, so that you can PLAY it! The game 
 was announced quite a while ago, why didn't you prepare the PC for it, were you hoping that it 
 will handle graphics, that run on PS3 or X360? Well serves you right, you should have think twice 
 before purchasing such a masterpiece.
  
  The graphics
  
  The graphics are the most advanced and best from any of the GTA series previously made, and they 
 require a very decent and not cheap video card! The damage system for vehicles and other game objects 
 is very good, and i love it, because you can smash a car twice, but you will not see it the same 
 for both of the cars, and when you can deform the body of the car, not just the pieces of the car 
 and doors, it makes you really feel into the game. The weapon models, the player details, everything 
 is great on it's levels. Comparing to Crysis - GTAIV requires more powerful video card, because 
 the city represents very large amount of models in a small area, but Crysis had a jungle with copy/paste 
 trees and that is why those who can play Crysis, may not be able to play GTAIV.
  
  The Gameplay
  
  Very balanced and fun to play, and it never gets boring, well at least the 
 first 10-20 hours of gameplay, because game smoothly gets you inside the game, whit step by step 
 of introduction about what is going on in Liberty City. The storyline is very interesting, and 
 you can do whatever you like in between the missions, which sequence you can choose, and also there 
 are some missions with optional choices, whether to kill or not to kill and so on.
  
  Sandbox
  
  The map is very huge and also as in previous parts of the GTA series, you need to 
 reach a certain point in the storyline to get further in the city by opening the roadblocks at 
 the bridges. There are some new things, that you can do around the city, and some things from SA 
 were removed, and the most painful from my opinion is the lack of purchasing safehouses, where 
 you could store more vehicles; the game has 4 safehouses, which unlock following the storyline 
 and that makes you chained at some point. And because of that lack, you really don't have much 
 things on what you can spend the money as you go deeper into the game. The great thing about the 
 world, is that you don't get any loading screen when entering a building compared to GTASA. Also 
 they have done some changes on the wanted system, where you need to get away from the search area 
 of the cops, which gets bigger after getting more stars.
  
  Overall
  
  There are many small pieces that makes this game more polished from GTASA, many, many small fragments 
 such as:
  
  - Fighting involves punching, kicking, and a special attack button. You can also dodge by tapping 
 block at the right time.
  - There's now stun attacks. You can also do executions with guns.
  - You can now hold up a driver, 
 where they will get out of their car with their hands in the air.
  - Peds aren't **** anymore. If you steal their car, many will fight back. Some even call for help, 
 and street peds will help them fight you off.
  - If there is a passenger in the car with you that you steal, he can throw you out.
  - Colliding 
 with... any object really, at insanely high speed will cause you to fly through the windshield.
 
  - Cops now hold you up, you can break out of this hold up, but it increases your wanted level.
 
  - Driving physics are more realistic than the original GTA. Takes getting used to.
  - If a cop is opening your car door, and you take off with him holding on, he'll actually hold 
 onto the door handle for dear life for a bit, dragging on the car before falling off.
  - You can get drunk, much better than the CJ high on pot effect. This actually not only **** up 
 Niko's walking and the screen vision, he trips and such aswell, and when your actually driving, 
 he swerves the car aswell.
  - There's a ticket booth on the bridge. You can decide whether to stop and pay the $5 or just bust 
 on through. I thought that was kind of neat.
  - You can now watch TV. Not all that amazing, but the shows are pretty amusing.
  - When cars 
 hit you, the ragdolls are pretty smooth and realistic.
  - You can call for cabs now, and actually select the destination, which literally covers all the 
 main places you need to go. To start a mission, buy a gun, clothes, your safe house. It puts you 
 in a first person view for Niko where you can look around in the cab from the back seat (or at 
 least I was in the back seat) . There is of course a quick skip function as well.
  - You can control your cars high beams.
  - You can now shoot from you car with handguns and sub 
 machine guns.
  - Niko can take cover behind generally all world objects. The fence climbing is also smoother than 
 SA.
  - You can climb ladders now! This is crucial!
  - Some cars have GPS navigation voices. You can set it so select vehicles do, or all cars. But 
 I thought it was neat. Actually tells you "turn left here", plays a chime when you do so, etc.
 
  - You can use the internet (in-game) to get an auto-body site. The site has numbers for used cars 
 you can buy. You can also buy ring tones and phone skins.
  - You can call 911 at anytime and call for a police officer, ambulance or firetruck.
  - You can 
 use a cop car to access a criminal database, find people around Liberty City, etc. You can also 
 call for police backup.
  
  My PC specs (bought 2 months ago) :
  OS - Windows Vista Ultimate
  CPU - Intel Core 2 Quad Q9550 @ 2.83GHz (4CPUs) , ~ 2.8GHz
  RAM 
 - Kingston 2x2GB DDR3 1600MHz (Dual Channel)
  MB - Asus Striker II NSE
  VC - Asus Radeon HD4850, 1GB, 256bit
  DirectX - 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: key_board
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  The Game is Best! I love it. But my PC doesn't. I need about $2000 to play this 50-dollar game. 
 I have nice PC (2.2 Core 2 Duo / 2GB / 8500GT) but they (rockstar) want me to buy much better x3 
 times more in price. That's BAD.
  
  Installation Process is fine...
  Space requirement is bearable...
  I would love to play it...
  But i can't (even on lowest settings) .
 
  
  If you have a PC like one stated in minimum requirements by RockStar don't play the game... Get 
 something better than recommended requirements and then try the game! its way much better this 
 way. you will love it!
  
  The Game is Best! I love it. But my PC doesn't. I need about $2000 to play this 50-dollar game. 
 I have nice PC (2.2 Core 2 Duo / 2GB / 8500GT) but they (rockstar) want me to buy much better x3 
 times more in price. That's BAD.
  
  Installation Process is fine...
  Space requirement is bearable...
  I would love to play it...
  But i can't (even on lowest settings) .
 
  
  If you have a PC like one stated in minimum requirements by RockStar don't play the game... Get 
 something better than recommended requirements and then try the game! its way much better this 
 way. you will love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irelevent
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 2:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is terrible. You would expect a port that took more than a year to at least have a decent 
 port from 360-PS3 to PC. It uses all sorts of DRM, Uses Windows Live, Uses its own personal launcher 
 that runs on startup. Literally the worst game of the Holiday season. I Hope Take2 gets bought 
 by EA because at least THEY can do a decent PC Port. My Experience: I have a Midranged PC that 
 runs crysis on high. This game, even on the lowest settings (that includes 800x600 res, no AA, 
 etc) gets 15-25 frames per second. If you can only get a couple of games , make sure NOT to pick 
 this game up. It's really just as buggy as they say it is. Half of the time the ground just refuses 
 to load so you end up running around with floating cars etc. This is what happens when all the 
 money that's supposed to be spent on making this port decent get spent on DRM and completely useless 
 start-up programs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruhan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 1:31 am PT
Review:  Hats of to Rockstar for making a fantastic and probably the best GTA game i have ever played. Amazing 
 graphics with life like elements surrounding u.... street full of NPCs (obviously well modeled and 
 better looking) , Road full with hi poly cars, even the drivers and their co riders are more life 
 like and react to ur every movement.. (if u go near a car.. they will instantly look at u and throw 
 comments... some of them will shake heads if u accidentaly get in their driving path and escape 
 clashing with the car ) , texture quality is superb, car handling is way better and more realistic, 
 real time lighting with quality illumination and effects.. hell ... when it rains, it looks just 
 amazing (u can see NPCs bringing out their umbrellas) .... i haven't spend that much time around 
 it yet.... still, the few hours that i have been with it.... i couldn't take my eyes out of it for 
 ones. Being a pro 3D graphics and visualization enthusiast, iwant to congratulate Rockstar fellas 
 for bringing out a quality game in the PC. Yes... it requires high end PC's (high end means really 
 high especially graphics card wise) This is the main drawback of the PC version of the game that 
 it may disappoint many dedicated GTA fans even if they own a quality PC that can run games like 
 CRYSIS with good quality settings. The reason for the game to be more system hungry is due to the 
 fact that the detail levels are exclusive... if u set draw distance high (even to 40%) u can see 
 a huge no of cars running and people walking down the streets (i was on top of a tall structure 
 and could see the city to a long distance full with cars and NPCs) without any hiccups.... u can 
 enter building interiors as if u were in the exterior.. no loading, no separate interior scene or 
 stuff. There are many more things where PC power shows off the console versions. The final thing 
 that i can say that i am a happy person... running the game in 1680 X 1050 res with all settings 
 maxed out and draw distance with 40%,,,, getting an average FPS of 40 in night time (probably the 
 more stressed part than the day time with all lights on) and 50+ in day time. I am compassionate 
 for many of GTA die hard fans who should be enjoying this great game in PC with ease... but cannot, 
 just because Rockstar, after doing the heavy stuff, forgot one thing....."Not everyone wants max 
 quality graphics to play GTA but at least should be playing the PC version with more similar performance 
 like consoles on moderate systems... their number is the largest.. because of them Rockstar is a 
 big name and GTA is a brand game now.
  
  BTW, Don't let some small bugs bug u.... my opinion.. for a game with such variety in gameplay and 
 effects in graphics ... it is hard to get everything right on the first release. Waiting for the 
 patch.. to fix the very minor bugs.
  
  
  
  My PC specs (bought 1month ago) :
  OS - Windows XP64
  CPU - Intel Core 2 Quad Q9450 @ 2.67GHz (4CPUs) , ~ 2.7GHz
  RAM - Kingston 
 4x2GB DDR2 833MHz (Dual Channel)
  MB - MSI P45 Platinum
  GC - SAPPHIRE ATI Radeon HD 4870 DDR5, 1GB, 256bit
  DirectX - 9
  
  CHEERS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlexSupreme
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 5, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Simply speaking, as a disappointed PC user I have an average PC on which I ran crysis on medium/high 
 smoothly with 54fps and DMC4 with 60fps.
  
  nVidia GeForce 8600GT.
  Intel 7200e .
  4gb DDRII ram.
  
  I expected from a 360 port to run at least on the medium with no AA, less 
 shadows, perhaps slightly low view distance.
  I have been sorely mistaken!
  
  Forgive me for saying so but a port from x-box 360 CAN'T under no circumstances require 1.4gig 
 of V-ram and core i-7 to run this game on medium+.
  
  As it says in the title, R* opened the door to your car, punched you in the face kicked you when 
 you were down and rode away with your cash and your car.
  
  Gamespot have been once again paid off and this is no longer a surprise to anyone.
  
  PS: If 
 you consider messing with the setting, trying to make the game play right, I have been playing 
 this game for over 20 hours, and yeah, the "gameplay" is rather hard. 
  
  I must admit, I feel a bit ashamed that I ranked a game this low.
  Usually. I tend to be more 
 patient with games that aren't all that perfect.
  
  Forgive me for this 1.0 ranking, but this joke game from R* deserves no more than a 0.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrwetfall
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  I have been anticipating this game for quite a while. I have a high end computer and was eagerly 
 awaiting the enhanced graphics. I'll start with the bad. 
  The game is a about 16gb. If i was logged in to the social club before the game started the game 
 would crash with a mma10 fatal error (only happened on first day so Rockstar must have fixed that 
 server-side issue already) . There are lots of texture loading issues that should not be there. 
 Randomly a texture of the road or a doorway will reload while i am staring directly at it and it 
 becomes quite tiresome when it does this reloading all over the city. (again these are all faults 
 in the game and not my hardware) . The xbox360 controller does not support pressure sensitivity 
 on the triggers which is annoying when you are trying to shoot a pigeon and no matter how light 
 you push it will aim at a pedestrian. This is truly all i could find wrong with the game as I have 
 all the recommended hardware requirements.
  The minimum and recommended requirements are realistic. If you have the min requirements the game 
 will run, but not very well. Only a small portion of pc gamers have computers that are good enough 
 to fit recommended requirements. 
  The graphics in this game are great and i do not feel that they are poorly optimized. Everything 
 runs at 35 - 45 fps and I have never noticed any lag or screen tearing of any kind. The keyboard 
 controls are a great improvement to the previous gta games and the ability to use an xbox360 controller 
 out of the box is an added bonus. The gameplay is the same as the consoles. The graphics in this 
 game are a ton better than that of the consoles.
  
  Overall I give this game a 9/10 and a 9.5/10 if the game is ever patched to fix the few problems 
 i am experiencing. Have fun playing if you have the rig to do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stephen_1979
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  I think that this is a brilliant game just like all the other GTA's. I've been playing it solidly 
 for three days and have loved every second. It has a great new physics engine and more realistic 
 car handling, you now have to brake for the corners. Having the camera controlled by the mouse 
 while driving took a bit of getting used to but now I prefer it to the old fixed camera
  
  I know lots of people have had glitches and frame rate issues but for me it runs great with no 
 problems or slow down whatsoever. I've been playing the game at 1050x1680 with all the video settings 
 maxed out except for textures (medium) and draw distance (33) and my frames per second have never 
 dropped below 29. When I ran the benchmark with these settings it said that the CPU and RAM were 
 only running at about 50% but the graphics memory was running at 99%. This indicates that you don't 
 need a super processor and lots of RAM to run this game well but you will want a decent graphics 
 card with at least 512MB of graphics memory. And yes it does look better than on a 360 or PS3. 
 You get much improved draw distances, slightly better shadows, the textures on the medium quality 
 setting look the same as on the consoles and you can have up to three times as many cars and pedestrians 
 which really brings the city to life. All this extra traffic does sometimes causes traffic jams 
 but it's not a problem as the roads are wide enough to easily get past them
  
  For me the installation and activation was just a brief inconvenience but nothing more. I did change 
 the Windows start up settings though, to stop the Rockstar Social Club automatically loading every 
 time Windows starts. Apart from the DRM (need I say more?) the only thing that I don't like about 
 this game is that there are no anti-aliasing setting, not even when I tried to override it using 
 the nVidia control panel. This does slightly spoil the otherwise excellent graphics
  
  Due to the number of people who have had problems, my advice to anyone who hasn't bought this game 
 yet is wait until it's been patched. But it is definitely worth getting, when it works it's a great 
 game 10/10.
  
  Q6600 @ 2.4GHz
  512MB 8800GTS OC
  4GB RAM
  Windows XP 32bit
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: olio_i
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 5, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  Ok there is nobody in the world that does not like GTA! It's a very cool game because you get to 
 be a real bad boy! :) Now this game is Extremely annoying! First of all the registration, copyprotection 
 things... What was the developer thinking!?!? They made it as hard as possible for the crackers 
 sure, but they also made it hard for those who bought the game! It takes 15 minutes for you to 
 register and start the game and after you start the game the problems begin! This game is full 
 of bugs! Sometimes you kill yourself just to start over... as an example there are missions where 
 you get to drive people around town to take care of their business and if they get stuck somewhere 
 there is no way you are able to do anything about it! That kind of sucks... The game almost unplayable 
 in it's splendor on a above-middle range PC. This is completely unacceptable from any developer! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos4Life2U
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  the car control is very good , damage is very well designed ,nice town but no so complex, great 
 sounds ,nice graphic with bad optimization ( hope a patch will fix this ) ,same missions, more simple 
 character than SA On my system the game has only 17 fps , everything lowest (AMD X2 3800+,2gbram 
 ,gf 7900GS ) and in 1 hour of playing its impossible to play any more because fps drop to lesser 
 than 13 fps , becomes unstable and impossible to play. The sounds are great and very well designed. Cars 
 have great damage. The city is well designed but SA had a more complex world with different environments 
 and more things to do in free mode. AI it's not so good , but also not so bad , little bugs but 
 this is a old problem with all gta series. The mission movies are more grater than any other GTA 
 series , because is well designed and expressive. Nice graphics but absurd requirements , I will 
 wait for an optimization or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: truehighroller1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 7:42 am PT
Review:  I was able to get the game working. I think that Rockstar has done an awesome job with this game. 
 My brother was telling me that the characters are different and he even seen a new car that he 
 doesn't have on his PS3 version that I have not played because of this day "I wanted to wait for 
 the PC version to play it". The game definitely has BUGS! I seen the nerdy chick wearing the glasses 
 in the very beginning movie's teethe and neck and face muscles and the uncle or whatever he is 
 to the main characters head turned around backward and his upper part of his body was detached 
 from his body. I also get random CTD's as well but, they will patch all this I am sure of it. With 
 all that said and out of the way. The game absolutely ROCKS and was, well worth the wait despite 
 what silly people on here say because they want everything perfect when it comes out. Just for 
 clarification as well my system specs are:
  
  Asus P5Q Deluxe
  Q9450 @ 3.85GHZ 1.29V
  4 GB of G-Skill DDR2 1066 2 X 2GB @ 1156 2.1V
  3x WD 160GB 16MB Cache in Raid0
  4870 1GB @ 
 850 / 925 Catalyst 8.11
  Vista Ultimate 64 bit Service Pack 1 with all updates to DirectX exc.
  
  
  I obviously have 
 enough beef to my system to run this thing at max and glitches are still there so it needs to be 
 patched no doubt.. Great!! game though.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: migduvednok
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 5, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  I have in my 15 years of gaming never encountered a more annoying way into a game, and even then 
 finding the game almost unplayable in it's splendor on my above-middle range PC. This is completely 
 unacceptable from any developer, and one publishing this crap only 3 months after SPORE did the 
 same mistake and suffered the consequenses, might have had the brains and experience to avoid repeating 
 it, but it coming from ROCKSTAR, one of the worlds systematically (well until today!) best developers, 
 is completely beyond my imagination. Upon finally finishing the 45 minutes installation and the 
 30 minutes registration process, i have to begin by setting every graphics-setting (there's only 
 a couple of sliders so you have no control over anything!) to low, and therefore feel sort of "unworthy" 
 to play the game. After beginning to play, a couple of different but VERY STRANGE errors happens, 
 each delivered with a coded error message that makes it impossible for me to know what "i did wrong" 
 or how to correct it. 
  
  I am SO angry with rockstar for having killed my joy of having bought this game. :- (
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathsFatalPlan
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2008 5:07 am PT
Review:  I have spent the past two days playing the game and so far I'm really enjoying it. The characters 
 are brilliant, a lot more likable than in previous GTA games. So far the story is also more believable 
 than the previous games. The action is good with car chases, gunfights and hand-to-hand combat 
 all more realistic than previous incarnations. Overall the game has become more realistic from 
 having to smash windows to steal locked cars to instantly dying if you fall off a motorbike at 
 great speed.
  
  Unfortunately the game isn't perfect. I initially had problems getting the game to load with error 
 codes popping up left, right and centre. Then when finally getting the game started I found performance 
 wasn't great on my 9800 even with most of the settings turned right down. It's playable but not 
 as smooth as it should be. The final problem I find with the graphics is the lack of anti-aliasing. 
 At a distance most objects look like pixel art from the NES era, it's beyond a joke.
  
  Rockstar have announced that they intend to get a patch out soon to resolve at least some of these 
 issues. Because of this I will give them the benefit of the doubt and rate the game as 9/10. If 
 the patch doesn't solve the problems then that rating will be dropping considerably. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delta-1984
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 5, 2008 3:59 am PT
Review:  How come Call of Duty 4 and 5 run grate on my computer, how come Crysis and Crysis Warhead run 
 grate on my computer, why is FarCry 2 running on high on my PC, why doesn't GTA 4 run grate on 
 my pc 10-15 fps??????
  why didn't rockstar bring the game out 1 year later if the game is meant for a PC that will be 
 in production in 2010.
  Why is it runnung grate on an XBOX 360or a PS3? And please don't tell me that the consoles are 
 batter than my pc: AMD Athlon x2 4200+ 2.2ghz, 2 gigs of ram running on 1600mhz and a GForce 8600 
 GT !!!!!!!!!!!!
  I have so many "why" questions that I don't have enough space to write it down. Remember GTA 3..... 
 the same problem
  they fixed that why can't they fix this one?
  So rockstar please fix this broken game for us we can still fix the ratings on gamespot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yasiruddin
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2008 12:18 am PT
Review:  The Grand Theft Auto franchise rocketed to mass popularity after Grand Theft Auto III's release 
 and the ground rules were set for a different style of game. Since then we've seen slight alterations 
 and tweaks to the core formula with Vice City and San Andreas, and Grand Theft Auto IV represents 
 another step forward. This is a game that strips down a lot of the more zany challenges from games 
 past. You won't be doing any remote control helicopter missions or lowrider matching challenges 
 here. Instead, the focus is on realism, a more mature sensibility, and bringing GTA into the present 
 day
  Starting from dealing with your cousin Roman, a small time operator prone to gross exaggeration, 
 you'll move your way up through criminal rings until you get what you want. Unlike GTA characters 
 of the past, though, Niko isn't trying to prove himself as some sort of badass for the ages, driven 
 to rule the city no matter what. He's looking for something, and the missions he undertakes are 
 really the only way for him to find it. He may perform a number of ruthless acts (which you, by 
 the way, instruct him to) , but there are points during the story where you can ease your finger 
 off the trigger or make a choice as to how things proceed. Despite the kind of senselessly violent 
 tendencies many may associate with GTA characters, Niko represents an exception in many respects, 
 as he has a code by which he operates. 
  
  The game's infrastructure has been made more convenient, though there's still space to improve. 
 If Niko fails a mission, a message asking to retry it pops up as soon as you respawn, and when 
 you die you don't lose your entire arsenal. Getting across the gargantuan metropolis is made easier 
 by hailing cabs that take you to waypoints on your map. Stealing a car and driving yourself is 
 always an option, as is the more immersive element of actually riding in the cab's backseat the 
 whole time, staring out the windows at the passing lights. For anyone who's short on time or would 
 prefer to forego the random dangers of driving across a GTA world, the cabs are certainly welcome. 
 
  
  Still, you'll be doing quite a bit of mission restarts, and that often means repeating large chunks 
 of the challenges. Many missions break down into an initial travel segment, some kind of escalation 
 event, a conflict, and an escape. Getting through the on-foot shooting sequences, a real headache 
 with the clunky control schemes of games past, has been made much better with the inclusion of 
 a cover system and, as with all PC versions, mouse and keyboard support for aiming and shooting. 
 From behind cover it's possible to blind fire, rapidly pop out to unload a few shots, or move cover 
 to cover, a system that doesn't always work perfectly but is a definite step up for the series. 
 It's possible to use a gamepad as well, which handles vehicles better than a mouse and keyboard. 
 You can even switch freely between the control devices. Juggling the two input methods depending 
 whether you're driving or shooting is pretty awkward, but it's great that Rockstar built it in 
 without forcing you to fiddle with a control input menu toggle. And if you have to pick one, it's 
 far easier to shoot from a moving car with the mouse and keyboard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhzfhvsadsjczfd
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  I always knew rockstar because of the superb games they have made.. Usually with excellent gameplay 
 and good graphics.. So i wasn't really expecting something like GTA IV.
  The gameplay is pure fun, rockstar did just right. But they have made it extremely hard to run 
 with a decent amount of FPS. No matter what your pc specs are.. gta will bring it down like its 
 a celeron with 5600 or something. I always play games at maxed settings but i cant play gta, which 
 i ironically is not at all worthy of the specs it needs to run smooth.. I mean, it requires hardware 
 that strong that does not even exist.. I played crysis at maxed settings and i cant play gta!! 
 why is that? the graphics are way worse than crysis or far cry 2.. Really i cant justify why it 
 requires soo much, since it runs-looks so mediocre.. its not like it has the breakthrough graphics 
 that you can understand why you cant have them.. here is just like the game doesnt like me and 
 simply want to punish me, by disappearing a huge amount of beloved FPS.
  And know here is little problem (compered with the FPS problem is really nothing at all) which is 
 bugs :) Playing around for about 8 hours in 2 days. i managed to spot about 25 bugs.. and i havent 
 even started playing the game seriously (bacause i cant) .
  The good thing is that, those bugs dont effect the gameplay, since they are just small issues that 
 you will encounter, only if you are watching carefully. And i believe they will be vanished with 
 a single patch.. But i have never seen a miracle patch....
  
  I am hoping for a patch that will improve the performance a bit. Or a nice chained patch reactions 
 of 7-8 patches just like stalker.. hehe i'm just joking, but go for the console version instead 
 of the pc version.. bye all!
  
  Hope i enlighted you my english-speaking friends.. forgive me for any spelling mistakes as i am 
 from greece, sparta 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fledge2k4
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 4, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  What an Un.. p.. la. y... a..... b.... le mess. Just wait until is fixed. Can't tell you how good it 
 might be becase the graphic glitches and slowdowns make it hard to play. We'll se how long before 
 Rockstar can fix this. I wanted to like it but my computer is just a few months old and it brought 
 it to its knees. I'm tempted to return it tomorrow since I have a feeling this is going to take 
 a while to fix. 
  
  Just stay away from the cops, because once they start chasing you things get ve.. r... y c.. h... o... pp.. y. 
 The few missions I was able to play seem kind of dull but I couldn't get too far into the game. 
 Rockstar.... shame on you.
  
  Well, looks like I'm going back to Fallout 3. Good luck to whoever decides to stick it out with 
 these jerks at Rockstar. Should I come back when the computers they designed the game for come 
 to market, ha ha ha. Wish you the best.
  
  Me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Muhaha_11
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 4, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  If your computer meets the system requirements do not buy this game. 
  If you have a dual core processor do not buy this game.
  If you have a graphics card below the 
 4870 do not buy this game.
  
  This game requires a monster rig to run it on. If you thought Crysis had steep system requirements 
 you have seen nothing yet. You will need the latest i7 processor and a 4870 x2 to enjoy this game. 
 GTA IV is now synonymous with "sloppy console port". Rockstar are a bunch of liars and I will not 
 be surprised if a class action lawsuit is filed against them. Remember when Microsoft put Vista 
 Capable stickers on laptops that could not run Vista? This is the same deal. These guys are a bunch 
 of crooks. They treat their customers like crooks by forcing them to install securom and a bunch 
 of other validation software like Social Club and Windows Gaming Live. This game is a waste of 
 16GB and $50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greenmonkey824
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 4, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto IV on the PC doesn't look inviting from the moment you double click it. After 
 demanding you have whatever the hell the Rockstar Games Social Club is trying to be running in 
 the background, taking up your precious system resources, before the game is even permitted to 
 launch, the game loads up a Command Line window, a black box of DOS containing no text, no information, 
 and no indication as to why it's there.
  
  The confusion doesn't end when the game finally goes full-screen. If you're using a widescreen 
 monitor, you still get a 4:3 image. Not pillarboxed, no, that would be too easy. Instead, the 4:3 
 image is zoomed in so you see only the middle section of it. Since quite a bit of the interface 
 is in that "safe" area, this wasn't apparent at first, so I ended up not realizing there was even 
 a way to change graphics settings in-game. I had to start playing to realize that yes, something 
 was wrong with the graphics, considering none of the textures, models, or anything at all loaded.
 
  
  One Control-Alt-Delete later, I went back in the game and discovered that I could scroll up and 
 down along the larger-than-my-screen image by moving my cursor to the edge of the screen. Wow! 
 Imagine that! Why the hell would this display mode be considered useful at all? It's like Rockstar 
 was trying to imitate the iPhone the same way Battlefield Earth used dutch angles.
  
  Having found the graphics settings, I set my aspect ratio to 16:10 (as opposed to "Auto", which 
 produced the pan-scanning annoyance) , lowered the screen resolution to something more reasonable, 
 kept the graphics settings on Medium (attempts to set them to "High" were met with an return to 
 "Medium" about a millisecond later) , and fired up the game.
  
  I was distracted from the excellent voice acting and the creative display of the credits during 
 the intro movie by the fact that the framerate started at a choppy 15-22 and quickly dropped to 
 about 5 on average. When I was finally given control of a car, the framerate did not pick up.
 
  
  Jumping into the options menu again, I lowered the resolution to 854 by whatever, turned render 
 quality to Low (textures wouldn't go down while in-game, and I wasn't about to try to quit to the 
 main menu because I wasn't interested in watching the intro again) , and turned all the "density" 
 settings down significantly. Applied settings, refreshed the screen, back in the game.
  
  I was treated to a similarly choppy slideshow, except with jaggier and blurrier graphics.
  
 
  If controlling the car was difficult enough in this situation, I can't imagine being in a high-speed 
 chase or heated firefight.
  
  No. Not acceptable. A system with a dual core processor and a video card released just over a year 
 ago should not have such trouble running a game, especially at some of the lowest technically possible 
 graphics settings. I'm not even going to get into the idiocy of the DRM, Social Club and Games 
 For Windows stuff, because I was not interested in playing the game long enough to run into the 
 inevitable headaches they'd give me.
  
  It's a real shame, because the console versions of GTAIV have been praised for their immersion 
 and writing, which are two things I'm a sucker for in a game. However, I'd like to actually be 
 capable of playing it.
  
  Yes, I know it's hard to port things to a completely different OS, let alone processor architecture, 
 and yes, I know that games still haven't overcome the hurdle of being viewable on any PC/console/player 
 like movies have. But if Rockstar felt like selling us something for 50 bucks, they could have 
 at least made it work on maybe 90% of PCs you'd expect a gamer to own.
  
  I really wish I could review this game on its gameplay. I never got to experience that, though. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karito775
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Before it's coming out, I heard that 3 years old computer can play GTA4 with acceptable performance. 
 That makes me really happy actually. But today it was disappointed me.
  
  I know the game play, mission, all details of GTA4 are really great on XBox version. I had played 
 once on my friend's XBox since April. Because I prefer to use key-board and mouse to play the game, 
 then I'm really looking forward to play GTA4 on PC.
  
  After I installed game on my laptop, T7500 2GB-RAM 8400mGS, first impression is "F*uckin slow!!!!". 
 I knew it is a low-end compared with today's PC but I had been played crysis with medium-low graphic 
 on this laptop and I expected it'll show a good frame rate with low settings on GTA4.
  
  Even I set it down with lowest settings on 800x600, it still worse. It's like a console game that 
 ported to PC and don't care whatever it gonna be. Moreover, GTA Social club still has some bugs 
 and makes my laptop crash sometimes.
  
  I don't know what is going on. Previous version of GTA on PC are better that this. I think R* should 
 release patches as soon as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rosbjerg
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 16, 2009 1:00 am PT
Review:  Dec 08
  I've been a fan of this series since the very first installment, I'm a big fan of a lot of different 
 genres - even Indie games like Mount and Blade. As such, I'm quite used to bugs and figuring out 
 how to work around them. GTA IV is however one of the worst experiences I've had when it comes 
 to installing, fixing and trying to get the software to work. Yes, you've probably read/heard that 
 from many others, but it's true...
  
  After 2 days I've been able to get about 8 hours out of it, the game crashes way too often (every 
 10 minutes or so on my system) , I experience weird bugs that seem to be quite random. I fully meet 
 recommended requirements, so the problem is most likely optimization. Rockstar Games simply didn't 
 test their game properly.
  
  If you spend some time on forums with sections dedicated to fixing the game, you'll see the vast 
 ocean of complaints and raging fans who swear "I'll never buy anything from Rockstar again!!!1" 
 - this is of course an overreaction, but it's still symptomatic to the inherit problems of this 
 game.
  
  I'm not trying to say that Rockstar is the devil incarnated, but they really dropped the ball on 
 this release and it'll cost them a great deal of respect. I find it even harder to understand why 
 such a solid company would be willing to print it's name on a such a release..
  
  Bottom line: by Q1 of 2009 this game will probably have been fixed with a bucket-load of patches, 
 I highly recommend waiting until then! You'll most likely be frustrated, like so many others, if 
 you jump on the wagon now.
  
  - Edit update - 
  It's now march and the game is still unplayable for me, bugs and CTDs are common and every patch 
 has only introduced more bugs to my game. This is probably the worst experience I've ever had in 
 gaming.. and I've had some pretty bad ones! "thank you" Rockstar for setting a new standard.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boromir028
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Okay here is my setup:
  Antec 1200
  EVGA 780i SLI
  Q9650 Yorkfield @ 4.2 GHz benchmark, 4.050GHz gaming
  Zalman CNPS9700 110mm
  EVGA GTX260 FTWs 
 SLI
  Thermaltake 850W Modular PSU
  2x WD Caviar Blue 640GB 7200rpm in Raid 0 1.16TB
  8GB OCZ Reaper PC28500 Link/Sync @ 900MHz
  LG Black Blu-Ray DVD Burner GGC-H20L
  Logitech G15 
 Gaming Keyboard
  Razer Diamondback 3G Earth Green Gaming Mouse
  Razer eXactMat and eXactRest
  X-Fi Titanium Fatal1ty Professional Sound Card
  Logitech Z-5500 
 505 Watts Digital 5.1 Speaker System
  Samsung 22" 220WM in 1680x1050
  Windows Vista Ultimate 64 SP1
  3DMark Vantage - P23,638
  3DMark06 - 21,980
  
  Now I'd hardly 
 call that a run-of-the-mill machine, however I cannot use my 260 FTWs in SLI still because it causes 
 Grand Theft Auto IV: Beta to crash at least once an hour. That and the PC "special," video capture, 
 has to be disabled as well to avoid frequent freezes/crashes.
  Really, does Rockstar need to be working on the next GTA game for it's console masters when it 
 still has an unfinished product out there?
  Fix SLI, make it so the game reads at least the 1792MB available on cards like the 295, and next 
 time TELL THE TRUTH in system requirements and perhaps next time you won't have such a backlash 
 on your hands, Houser. That is if you still care.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: clynx01
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 4, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  If this is the future of gaming, I am done with gaming until it gets back to basics. Funny how 
 this garbage is promoting piracy instead of doing things that make it easier for the purchaser 
 to be happy they didn't get a pirated version. As for the game it is okay, but not worth the hassle, 
 If you must feel good about not participating in piracy, buy it then through it in the trash and 
 get the pirated version.
  
  The biggest problem with this game is the fact that there needs to be an internet connection just 
 to save the game, how stupid is that? What moron gets to keep their job after coming up with that 
 idea? Their are times I would like to play and no internet is available, dah.
  
  With this nonsense and data caps on my ISP's. I am throwing my computer and tv away, and moving 
 back into the stone age. 
  
  See ya suckers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rootcaldera
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 4, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  1. If you think Crysis is demanding try this one. (And Crysis looks better btw) 
  2. Securom - enough said
  3. You must be online to save and register in stupid windows live, 
 social club etc.
  4. Don't have that ''something'' which will keep you in front of the screen. If you want game witthis 
 ''something'' play Mafia, Metal Gear Solid etc. 
  
  Don't believe people that gave this game 10 because they probably think NFS Carbon is a masterpiece. 
 If this is for 10, then Mafia deserves 20! Sad but true. Don't believe advertising. With enough 
 money Rockstar (and similar companies like EA) can sell you blank DVD. And they have a lot of money! 
 
  I saw in one review good advice for Rockstar: Other time you charge us half of the money and after 
 a year, when you make all this patches so the game can be called finished product, charge us other 
 half. When I buy a car I expect to have wheels, gearbox and other important stuff so you can actually 
 drive it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cgobeil
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  To tell you the truth I was disappointed by the previous GTA games... why? Because none quite grasp 
 my interest as GTA IV does, I mean if you have a duo core system and a 512M video card with 2G 
 ram atleast then you can run this game at highest settings with no problem and it's quite an experience!
 
  
  Though some may not like the new graphics and the glitchy shadows I find them quite excellent though 
 I hate the shadow glitch but this game with its fresh new story is what make me enjoy this game 
 so much, you have to be a fool not to like this game, as soon as you first start playing in Liberty 
 City you feel like you're really playing in a real world! That's how good the atmosphere and graphics 
 are to me...
  
  The game can be quite a challenge also like when you go bowling, I find it quite hard and I always 
 lose but I think I'll get better at it, who knows?
  
  Well now I only hope they fix the multiplayer since I haven't been successful at login online.
 
  
  Atleast the single player is working perfect! If you have a PC powerful enough.
  
  Thank you Rock* you guys really did it this time!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aksx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  I have been reading reviews given by different users. I read all the 1's and 10's review and I 
 could only figure out the fact that people gave it 1 because they are actually pissed of by a true 
 fact that the game is not working on their systems. If that wont be the case then everyony would 
 have given it a 10 because it deserves it. Guys come on you are in 21st centuary and this is Grand 
 Theft Auto 4 not the old school flash games.!!!!!!!!!!
  The game has stunning graphics, best gameplay ever, much more freedom than any game in the series 
 or any other game, great storyline, etc.
  What else do you need from a game????? The only thing I thought that could be improved was the 
 time it takes to install. But after that you get a great expierence and you forget about installation.
 
  I am big gamer adn have played a lot of games and so far I find this game most exciting!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malu05
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 4, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  If you have tried the PS3 or Xbox360 version you know what you are coming here for. 
  It seems like the PC gamers have been waiting a year for Rockstart to find the worst possible way 
 to implant copy protection. And they succeeded. To tell the truth the game does look better and 
 runs at a better frame rate than the low-frame-rate consoles. (If you have a decent rig) . However 
 that is about it. It still seem optimized for for Consoles and running DX debuggin on it you can 
 see that it is not because it is a game that have much detail... its just bad programming.
  
  Back to the whole DRM issue.
  4 Registrations to play the game proper and to make things 
 worse you have to download 3rd part software to remove the copy protection software from your computer 
 after you have uninstalled it.
  With all the problems and whatever can occour, you might need to take around 3 ours off just to 
 install the game.
  
  There is hope though.
  Are you one of those who legally bought the game, I can highly recommend you go download a pirated 
 version and install that one instead of the one on your DVD's.
  
  I spend less than half the time installing the pirated version since it does not require any registration 
 at all. And even better... it does not install the copy protection "rootkit" so you do not need 
 to go and find the 3rd party tool to uninstall the game...
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonymoretti
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  So Like many of the fellow gamers I did buy GTA IV, and I was excited to go to the gta series, 
 I did play GTA IV on the x box 360 and loved it and I held off from beating it and waited for the 
 PC version which wasn't easy, but now I have a few important things to say.
  
  1. Make you have the correct OS service pack, I didn't not have SP1 on my vista x64 and trust me 
 I went almost to a point of throwing my computer outside my window, took me 3 days to get my rig 
 to the point where I could install without errors.
  
  2. Come on what are these reviews you bought GTA IV with the minimum or recommended requirements, 
 real gamers know that doesn't cut it, Crysis's recommended requirements were a 6800GT
  so please enough is enough if you were stupid enough to buy the game with those specs, you deserve 
 crap graphics.
  
  3. Overall-
  GTA IV is a frustrating mind numbing but very enjoyable experience to play, so I'm gonna say get 
 your PC rigged ready and buy it this season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noclippin
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  I've done a LOT of gaming and i've seen a LOT of bad optimization, but this is just beyond acceptable, 
 the game is so horribly bugged it almost forces half of your processing power on horrid things 
 such as error-handling. I have a pretty decent system myself, including a laptop which isn't a 
 bad performer (8600GTM in the laptop and SLI 8800GTXs in the stationary) I have quad-cores in both 
 and 2-3gb ram running @ 1333mhz on the stationary. Now wouldn't it be wierd if a computer which 
 can handle Crysis, and a ton of other things without too much trouble, would bend over and take 
 Rockstars massive piece of **** up it's crack?
  This has NOTHING and I repeat:
  NOTHING
  NOTHING
  NOTHING
  to do with your system, my laptop handles the game just fine with 1440x900 
 resolution, low-mid settings@50-60fps while my stationary is almost forced to blue-screen cus of 
 lag.
  
  The game isn't SUPER impressive as you would expect considering your computer is being torn to 
 pieces. The gameplay is fun, but seriously am I to believe that the 360 and ps3 outperforms massive 
 super-computers just because they are "better"?
  
  OPTIMIZATION... HOLY SMOKES!!
  
  If you want to play this game, wait.
  If you can live without, do so.
  If you simply must play 
 it then good fkn luck mate. I am never EVER buying a rockstar game again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nixxl15
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 2:09 pm PT
Review:  I am deeply dissapointed with the members of gamespot. com. Especially with those who rate this 
 game abysimal and terrible because it isn't working or it took long to install it. A game review 
 is supossed to describe the game and everything in it, and not how it didn't work because they 
 have weak computers. This game is a MASTERPIECE! First, this is the first sandbox type of game 
 with such a big level to explore. I mean, this is even the best part of the game! Such a HUGE city, 
 with so many secrets and places to explore that gives us pleasure. Second, the story. It's absolutely 
 amazing. A totally nw type of charachter. He isn't from the getto, or an Italian mobster. No, he 
 is a Bosnian war veteran, willing to do anything for a better life. Such a dark history behind 
 him, and yet such humor and some mystic force drawing us to know Niko better. It's absolutely amazing. 
 Third, the new innovative and uprgaded stuff. Cell phones, suits, dates, car sex, every charachter 
 different. It's absolutely amazing. And last, but not the least, the graphics! Like 7 years ago, 
 GTA brings again a revolution in it's graphics, making it 10 times better. Shaded water, sunshine, 
 shadows.... Everything is absolutely stunning. This is one of the best games ever. There is just 
 one thing that was not good and that was- the waiting for the PC vesion. And that's it! Thank god 
 it was worth the waiting. This game is the GotY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anar_tEoN
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 4, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  The game is a fully bugged piece of crap. Emotions? Damn YES!!! But to let the half optimized game 
 out is an affront. This so called reserve for future is a **** If I can't play the game on the 
 PC where Crysis was running with stable 30 FPS on medium-high detail. Future? Great, then leave 
 it for future. As for now I have spent 50$ on this crap just to face the fact I have to spend another 
 heap of money to be able to get what I have already paid for. I do not care about any patches they 
 will do. Since I think it is ridiculous to publish the raw project and then with just a single 
 patch improve everything. I am damn tired of all these patches I have to wait to be able to play 
 normally. This politics of publishing unoptimized game on PC makes me mad. They can improve the 
 game performance, but they will not improve the impression. But I doubt they care. Let's settle 
 this guys. If you think it is ok to do your work in a such way. Then why I can't just pay you 20$ 
 for the game I get, and pay the rest when you make things done? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ogwaffle2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  it seems rockstar was more preoccupied with protecting their interests with this port. the amount 
 of time spent installing and getting the game up and running is enough to kill all hype that you 
 might have. the excitement was immediately subdued after installed about 4 new programs, service 
 pack 3, and updated drivers. i was expecting the game to run excellently with my 9600gt and e5200, 
 but it didn't. the visuals are definetly not the best.. and its a performance hog. but after playing 
 it awhile the story and gameplay itself seemed well enough to hold my interest. i plan on playing 
 this for awhile aside from its drawbacks. the pc has become such a difficult platform to release 
 a game for due to the advent of bit torrent. in a way you can't blame them.. after all, gta always 
 has huge teams of pirates waiting to get their hands on it.
  
  maybe in the next few weeks or monthes to come rockstar will release some patches to make the performance 
 better. it makes no sense to me that my machine can run crysis on max with high frames, but not 
 this game.
  
  everything else aside, great games so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivandonvito
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 4, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  So, here is it, the best, the most anticipated game this year-Grand Theft Auto IV for PC.
  
  That was what i thought first-good game, from good developers, everything seemed to be so good. 
 
  
  But than came the reality. I started to install the game, it took me 2 hours (whit registration, drivers 
 updates) , and all that time i was sure that this all is worth. OK, it's installed, what's next ?- 
 ah yeah, i forgot i was going to play. Double click-loading, I'm so happy,
  
  OK, I'm in, but what to see-i can't change the options ,because my computer is not enough fast. 
 No problem i say, the graphics are not the most important thing. 
  
  Now i play, but everything is so ugly and angular, the camera is moving so much so i begin to think 
 that something is wrong with me, or maybe it's because of the drunken cousin .But after this cut 
 scene the camera is still buggy-what's this ? Did i mention the not working buttons, the impossibility 
 to drive cars and all such stuff? (That's why the difficultly is very hard-actually you have no 
 control over Nicko's actions)
  
  As conclusion i want to say that this game for PC is crap, it's EPIC FAIL . What happened with the 
 promises of a good port ?! What the hell were they doing all this months-porting? Well the final 
 result is very very disappointing, and i thing no patches will be able to fix this Fail. The PC Gamers 
 are threated like an idiots. Do Rockstar expect from us to buy this thing ?
  
  My personal don't buy this game or pirate it-it's just waste of time, nerves and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deeper_crust
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  First things first: An important thing I would like to point out is that we shouldn't jump on to 
 review a game right after putting the dvd in the drive. I say that this game is amazing and highly 
 addictive. I got the game to run smooth both single player and multiplayer (initially had problems 
 with multiplayer but knew rockstar would fix it and I waited) . The graphics are far better than 
 any of the previous games in the series and man the physics has been improved alot. The city is 
 lively as usual and you will find heaps of realism. You need to have a good system to enjoy the 
 visual aspect of the game. You will fall in love with the cars in gta 4. You'll find all types 
 of exotics, supercars and simple cars with funny names. Liberty city is now my second home (as 
 was san andreas back in those days :) )
  
  My rig:
  
  Core2 quad: Q6600
  8800GT
  4GB Kingston 800MHz
  Asus P5K 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GautamIyer
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 4, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  Alright, so people are venting their frustrations at this game for many reasons other than the 
 gameplay and feel their 1/10 rating is justified. I, however, disagree.
  
  Now, there are some serious issues that I encountered before playing the game. It took me over 
 16 hours to download via steam -- a decision that I don't regret, but can't help but complain about 
 it -- and took me another 1.5-2 hrs to solve the errors by downloading service pack 3. Was all this 
 necessary? Phuck no. The fact is, it's a load of superfluous bullsh! t that I could've done without. 
 Whatever the reason, I was angry. Angry and tired... and a little bit hungry. I had half a mind 
 to boycott steam and rockstar altogether, but then I realized that I would be the only one at a 
 loss.
  
  After I finished installing SP3, I ran the game and I didn't get any errors.
  
  Now, I have a pretty decent rig. Sure it's no gtx280 or the latest ATI cards. It's a single 
 GPU (8800gt) that works just fine for most games on the highest settings and for some reason, gta 
 4 was ridiculously demanding. I can run it on medium with a 35 for draw distance and high texture 
 quality, which is surpringly high considering people with similar rigs can't even do half of that. 
 Which basically means that quad core is the way to go.
  
  I do feel for everyone that went through the same issues; I really do. I felt that way just yesterday. 
 I don't think it's fair what Rockstar has done and Steam pissed me off as well, but the fact is, 
 it's important to rate the game based on the gameplay and technical features of the game and not 
 just your frustrations.
  
  From a gamer's perspective, the game is very good. It's easily the most realistic game in the series 
 and the story -- from what I've played so far -- is immersive and exciting. The problem is, there isn't 
 much of a difference in gameplay -- aside from the realistic features -- between this and vice city. 
 The missions are still sometimes short and unexciting at times. I find myself waiting for something 
 big to happen, and I guess it's still early, but I've yet to see it.
  
  I usually rate games after I've played them fully, but I just felt like writing this review.
 
  
  Again, I urge people to give it their fullest instead of boycotting rockstar or steam prematurely. 
 I wanted to do it too, but you paid the money, so you might as well try to fix the problem before 
 making hasty decisions. Anyways, that's my 2 cents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mconnan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 5:45 am PT
Review:  All the reviews talking of a frustrating installation process and games crashes are unfortunately 
 very true. 
  
  Let me clarify some actual problems.
  
  1) Make sure that you have the required Windows service pack or installation will simply come to 
 a halt saying that your computer is not compatible and refer the explanation to an unworking link. 
 Also, like it or not, two extras have to be installed to play the game : Rockstar Social Club (which 
 is the platform used to launch the game) , and Games for Windows Live (which is used to save your 
 games) .
  
  2) The normal way to start the game is to launch Rockstar Social Club, which will log in or not 
 (reflecting what it was last time) to Rockstar server, and then game is launched from Rockstar 
 Social Club. 
  You have to know that Rockstar is having a problem with their servers at this very moment, and 
 as a consequence will - for most people - cause a game crash called MMA10 right after start IF 
 YOU WERE LOGGED IN ROCKSTAR SOCIAL CLUB . 
  The temporary solution is to log off Rockstar Social Club and then start the game. Multiplayer 
 will not work, BUT CONTRARY TO THE SPREADED WORD, games can be saved if you have Games for Windows 
 Live installed.
  
  3) There are numerous complaints of the game analyzing your rig performance and automatically limitating 
 the graphic settings. Rockstar says that medium textures (which are quite grainy) are the normal 
 maximum settings that can smoothly be processed by actual technology. That is completely false. 
 Although I was only allowed medium textures with a resolution of 1920, I dropped it to 1440, slightly 
 reduced the viewing distance, and was permitted to use much nicer high textures (with a nice smooth 
 gameplay despite the red warnings of graphic setup saying I was asking too much !) .
  
  Then finally comes the reward you have been waiting for months (and have been pulling your hair 
 for in the last few hours) !
  
  Game atmosphere : absolutely breathtaking right from the start. New York City is very well detailed 
 in matters of housing, parks, bridges, and tons and tons of details make you feel like you are 
 actually there. 
  
  The music will get you right from the start as well, and general sounds very well add to this atmosphere.
 
  
  Graphics are quite nice. As mentionned before, slightly reducing your resolution or viewing distance 
 will not really be noticeable, and will let you get high textures, which will remarkably improve 
 overall graphics. Do not expect cars to be as shiny, breathtaking and detailed as something like 
 Grid (racing game) , but keep in mind that you are surrounded by a whole extremely detailed city.
 
  
  Controls require some learning. Driving your car with one hand while constantly adjusting viewing 
 angle with the mouse is not so easy at first, but after a few hours, I feel much more confident 
 into it. 
  
  The story is also very interesting, at least for the first hours. Time will tell if it keeps addicted 
 for weeks.
  
  As a conclusion, I will say that once you get past the too numerous installation problems, and 
 once Rockstar fix their server problems, then expect exactly what you've been hoping for. Unfortunately, 
 the first impressions are the ones we mostly keep and these unacceptables installation particularities 
 will leave most of us with mixed feelings.
  
  Final thought : Bioshock created some reactions from the community with some controversed activation 
 requirements. One year later, I can say that these were the good days ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mwizards6977
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 14, 2008 8:06 am PT
Review:  I finally was able to fix the missing textures issue by resetting the driver settings in the registry 
 to defaults using Riva Tuner. Since I am finally able to play the game I have updated my review. 
 I still don't know why I would need to this with a fresh copy of the latest driver installed and 
 keeping in mind that all of the 40 other games on my system were working just fine. Rockstar should 
 not have released this game until the major bugs were worked out regardless of Christmas Sales. 
 Your integrity as a company should be more important than some lost sales.
  
  I have not actually been able to play this game yet after solving the crash bug associated with 
 the being logged in to the social club. Which by the way I don't like and did not want to install 
 on my machine as I don't play multi player games due to being responsible for a disabled family 
 member who I give round the clock care to. I don't think other people would care for me having 
 to excuse myself from the game all the time to do my duties. So I just don't bother with multi 
 player. 
  
  After spending two hours installing the game and Windows Live and the update for Windows Live that 
 is required to play GTA 4 and another two hours searching the web for a fix to Social Club crash 
 bug. I finally load the game and most of the texture fail to load. What I am left looking at is 
 something like a game in the early stages of wire frame development only worse. I cant see the 
 road or any NPC's or my character, the game is completely unplayable. After searching the web for 
 8 hours and trying various lame fixes like defragging my hard drive ( which some people claim worked 
 to fix the no textures issue, good for them but it did not work for me) I have concluded that I 
 will not be playing this game until a fix is released by Rockstar or new drivers from Nvidia or 
 whatever it takes to fix this mess that Rockstar is calling a game.
  
  The time spent looking for fixes on the web revealed an appalling number of different bugs in this 
 game. I ran across at least six distinct problems and those are just the ones that make the game 
 either unable to run at all or too messed up to play.
  This game should never have been released it is totally not ready for prime time. If you want to 
 throw your money away go ahead and buy this turd. Believe me if could return it and get my money 
 back I would!!
  
  It deserves a minus 10 not the perfect 10m that some people are giving it. Don't be fooled by the 
 people that are overlooking the massive number of problems in this game. I have over 40 PC games 
 and all of them work great on my rig Which is a EVGA 780i FTW mobo, core 2 duo E 8400 4 gigs of 
 Patriots best DDR2 1066 memory, Two G90 core 640 Meg EVGA 8800 GTS in SLI a pair of western digital 
 320 Gig R2 HD's in raid 0 and another 500 Gig seagate 72.11 for backups. The whole rig chipset 
 and all is watercooled and I have a PC power and cooling 750 Silencer Power supply. My hardware 
 is perfectly fine and should have no problem running this game somewhere between medium and high 
 settings. Yet I can't even get the stupid game to load properly!! All I can say is good luck you 
 are going to need if you plan on playing GTA 4 on the PC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amr_5m
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 12:28 am PT
Review:  I like this game i play it on ps3 and xbox360 
  
  And i found that the PC better than ps3 and xbox360 
  
  The multipayer is best than ps3 and 
 X BOX 360
  
  Thank s rock star games and we will wait for the GTA IV: Lost & Damned on PC 
  
  I have 4 G 
 RAM ,QUAD CORE, AND ATI HD4800 S 
  
  And I run it on 1280x1024 and highest graphics and their is no lag thank you Rock star games 
 
  
  So i hope the res GTA IV Lost & Damned on PC 
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  .. Rockstar 
 also added in an aiming system which i find truly needed for gta games...
  The benefits of having to own this game is to explore the world of Liberty City . Liberty City 
 is such a big place filled with such activities such as clubbing, strip dancing, online dating. 
 There is also another feature that is so massive yet simple such as the cellphone... Its practically 
 your social life with the press of buttons... Another great thing is the cars... The cars that 
 i have driven are cars that i like.. If you are a big fan of
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ltcampb
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 3, 2008 11:59 pm PT
Review:  I'm reviewing this game without having actually played it on the PC. I have played it on my friends 
 PS3 and it was one of the more enjoyable gaming experiences I have had. However the launch of this 
 game in such a horrific port is unacceptable. 
  I have an AMD 2.4 GHz processor, 2 GB of RAM, and 2 NVIDIA GeForce 7900 512MB graphics cards. It 
 aint top of the line but it can certainly play every game I have put on this rig up until now (this 
 includes titles like Crysis) . 
  After signing up for several things I didn't want to such as Windows Live and the Social Club and 
 coming to the understanding that multiplayer wouldn't be an option I thought well I can at least 
 play some missions before calling it a night. Wrong on that too apparently my machines is good 
 enough to get about 20fps with everything looking completely terrible. I am completely enraged 
 by this game considering that my system meets Rockstar's recommended requirements. I could wait 
 for patches to review this game but remember how well that worked out for that London game by the 
 folks who made Diablo? 
  I've heard that the PC is a dying platform for games and if this is any indication of where the 
 platform is headed it's sad to say that "they" may be right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anakin198
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  This game truly deserves a higher rating than 10/10... This game is pure fun and full of exciting 
 activities to be done... Rockstar also added in an aiming system which i find truly needed for gta 
 games...
  The benefits of having to own this game is to explore the world of Liberty City . Liberty City 
 is such a big place filled with such activities such as clubbing, strip dancing, online dating. 
 There is also another feature that is so massive yet simple such as the cellphone... Its practically 
 your social life with the press of buttons... Another great thing is the cars... The cars that 
 i have driven are cars that i like.. If you are a big fan of muscle and fast cars then this is 
 the game for you.
  
  
  It's weird. Why some people says that this game needs powerful machine? I'm running it using AMD 
 Athlon 6000+ , GeForce 9800GT , 4 GB of RAM , Windows Vista Ultimate SP1 and I got around 40 FPS 
 with all maxed out and 1440 X 900 resolution. It's cool! And the best thing is this game is LIVE 
 support! This game is the best game of 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psycold
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 3, 2008 5:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is almost unplayable on most high end machines. I have a Core2Duo 2.4 gig with fresh 
 install of Xp, Sp3 - everything updated, 2 gigs of ddr2 800 mhz and a 320mb nvidia 8800 gts. I 
 know my video card is the bottleneck, but I can run every game on the market at 1280x1024 on high 
 - highest graphics including Crysis, Crysis Warhead, Fallout 3, Far Cry 2, and Left 4 Dead. 
  
  When it comes to GTA4, I can barely run the game with LOW TEXTURES, the sliders are crippled 
 so they will only go as high as rockstar believes you should go for your particular machine. That's 
 right, you CANNOT use the high texture settings unless you have AT LEAST a 600 mb video card. I 
 managed to get my textures up to medium but it drops the draw distance to 1 (out of 100) . This 
 is the least optimized game I have ever played and I play every single game that pushes technological 
 boundaries. I could go on and on about how poor the performance is, but there are other issues 
 to address.
  
  First off, after installing the game (which took almost an hour) , I was (like everyone else) forced 
 to install Windows Live and Rockstar Social Club. After the 45 minutes of installing, I was forced 
 to download another 30 megs just to get the Social Club working. I thought to myself, "At least 
 that is over with, and now I can have some fun with the actual game". 
  
  WRONG. I must be getting senile in my old age of 25 because I somehow forgot that PC gamers have 
 become paying beta testers when it comes to any and EVERY game that started on a console. Although 
 Gears of War ran incredibly well, especially compared to GTA IV. Anyway, I finally had the game 
 ready to go, I login to the 50 programs it forces you to log into just so you can play, and boom, 
 crash to desktop. 
  
  After another 30 minutes of searching forums I found out that the "Social Club" crashes the game 
 if you are logged in, and the "Club" also happens to be the only way you can access multiplayer! 
 Fantastic decision guys! Seriously is there a gas leak at Rockstar? Or was everyone just sitting 
 around with their thumbs up their asses looking at this horrible port, saying to themselves, "Think 
 enough people have upgraded by now?"
  
  This is disgusting what they have released upon our community, and I think it is total B. S. for 
 reviewers to wait for a patched version to review it because that's not what I bought, and it's 
 not what everyone else bought. What we bought was an unfinished product and my review reflects 
 that realistically. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johnnsen
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  To start: 
  
  Yes it has problems with crashes and graphic performance.
  
  
  The game it self is just plain fun and if you liked GTA 3, GTA 2, Vice City, Liberty City Stories 
 or San Andreas, you should get this.
  
  It doesn't have the RPG Elements of San Andreas, it still has a lot of features like clothes, sunglasses, 
 caps and so on.
  
  The damage of the cars is great, and the details of the world are impressive. 
  
  The high 
 settings are not for current gen as stated by rockstar, medium will do. It is still a fun game, 
 even tho it has some bugs, and even gamebreaking bugs for some people.
  
  Rockstar says they are working on a patch, so we should just wait for it.
  
  
  My system: 
 8800GTS 512 MB, Windows XP Service Pack 3, 2GB Ram, Amd X2 6000+ (2 x 3ghz)
  
  
  You NEED Service pack 3 for XP, or Vista. Have fun and just get lost in this detailed and awesome 
 world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockatanski
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  GTA 4 on the PC is genius. It is so much better than the console versions that you wonder why they 
 brought it out on consoles on the first place. My system isn't that strong, but after turning off 
 aliasing options and other graphical settings to medium, I raised the resolution instead and got 
 exactly what I wanted. In saying this, a PC game can never get a 10 from me for this reason alone 
 because nobody's system is the same therefore no game is ever 100% stable with framerates and issues. 
 On that note as well, I have seen GTA 4 crap itself on a PS3 when there is too much onscreen explosive 
 activity.
  
  Now..
  
  This is the best game in the series. I can't believe the depth of intensity and personality of 
 the characters to this day. The story is just as immersive and grand as it has been and your choice 
 in the adventure paths is just as fresh and clear as ever. GTA 4 is easilly one of the best games 
 ever made and it belongs on a pedestal of mammoth heirarchy. Game of the year without a doubt.
 
  
  Being both a fan of all platforms, I was totally blown away at how much better this was on PC. 
 But that is not surprising considering the technology was invented on this platform anyway. Some 
 may not agree with me there ;) But the most important thing to know is that for action, adventure 
 and arcade supremacy - nothing is better than Grand Theft Auto 4! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drejr
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 3, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  GTAIV is far from polished and a beta release at best. This game will bring the best PC to it's 
 knees. I get 20FPS average on the lowest settings with an Intel E8400 Core 2 3.0Ghz, 4GB PC2-6400 
 RAM, and NVIDIA Geforce GTX 260. For comparison I can run Crysis on High in DX10 at 40FPS. If I 
 had an entry-level pc with an onboard video adapter, I'd obviously have no business complaining, 
 but I think I have a pretty respectable gaming rig to justify this review. I would consider this 
 game almost unplayable, not to mention all the hoops you must jump through to even play the game 
 -- Securom, Online Activation, Rockstar Social Club Log-In, and Games for Windows Live Log In. 
 This is a very stressful gaming experience. Instead of spending $50 on this game, EA should have 
 paid me $50 for beta-testing broken software and wasting my time. Save your money... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  From my experience the game looks and runs great on my PC. There are some texture problems for 
 some reason they don't ever fully load and sometimes they just look bad. But it all depends on 
 what settings you have your computer is on. I have mine on Medium and High settings. 
  
  One of the things I love about the PC version is the Video editor which I haven't tested yet and 
 the Custom tracks which have radio with your tracks. I'll be updating this review as I'll play 
 more of the game. I haven't encountered any issues so far with the game and it's been a smooth 
 ride so far. 
  
  The graphics in the game aren't as enhance like they are on my PS3. But again it all depends on 
 your video card. I'm running on Nvidia 8800 GT. The controllers are exactly similar to the X360 
 version. 
  
  I'm a big fan of GTA so this wasn't even hard for me to decide if I should buy this game again 
 for my PC. If you haven't bought this game for the consoles than this should be a great game to 
 purchase for your gaming PC.
  
  My Rig specs
  Processor: Intel CoreTM 2 Quad CPU Q6600 @2.40Ghz
  4GB Dual-Channel DDR212 SDRAM 
  Video Card:2 
 NVIDIA GeForce 8800 GT graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brundlefly76
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 3, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  This review is for people who aren't into GTA, but want to be. I am one of them, and I hope this 
 helps your decision to buy it.
  
  As a developer and gamer, I am astonished at the work Rock Star does every release in art, animation, 
 scale, scope, storytelling, voice acting and movie direction. GTA IV continues their tradition 
 of raising this bar significantly higher each release.
  
  (BTW, my favorite GTA game was Liberty City Stories for the PSP - amazing)
  
  But there are 
 a lot of gamers like me, who find the whole franchise fascinating until they actually PLAY it.
 
  
  Despite the *relative* quality of acting and directing, I would rather play 10 seconds of game 
 then watch any given 60 seconds of cutscene dialogue. A bunch of gangsters, waddling around and 
 gesturing aimlessly, its always the same.
  
  GTA IV does the best job by far, but its the best of something I cant stand : ( I would love to 
 see them get some A-List voice actors though, like Kiefer Sutherland in World At War - that would 
 help.
  
  Kind of like walking back and forth for miles in Warhammer, driving in GTA IV is more of a grind 
 for me. You spend a lot of time doing it, but its just a means to an end.
  
  The missions - eh, they're better too, but again, its not captivating gameplay for some of us.
 
  
  Finally, the PC controls are bad, the camera is funky and 'inverse mouse' seems to do the opposite 
 depending on whether you are walking or driving. The game locked up on me the first time I tried 
 to save. 
  
  So, if you have tried GTA games in the past because you want to love them, and hoping this is the 
 'one', good luck, but it didn't happen for this gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psychojohno
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 3, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  Ok just a quick review warning everybody not to buy the PC version.
  
  I am a PC gamer I had a copy of GTA IV on 360 but barely played it as I was looking forward to 
 the PC version.
  
  Turns out this game is a nightmare to install with all the DRM as well as having to do some online 
 registration and you have to join rockstar social club among many other things then you get to 
 the activation and you have to enter 3 codes that you can't find for a good day or 2.
  
  In summary it's a decent game although personally I don't think its as good as the predecessors, 
 IF YOU MUST PLAY THIS GAME GET IT ON 360 OR PS3!! 
  
  If you get it on PC be prepared to spend a few days signing up to various different accounts swearing 
 at your PC and eventually by the time you get to playing it deciding you have had enough and are 
 going take it back to the shop. (Which is where I'm going now) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kito8
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  HI, i'm NNC and I'm going to review the game GTA IV.
  First of all, I'm going to explain some of the most "bothering" stuff that some people blamed:
 
  
  - In some cases, people said that updating all the stuff you need is sh*t, but understand, this 
 have nothing to do with GTA IV, and in the future it's ok to have up to date your rig, I don't 
 thinks is a major problem, maybe boring, but patience don't kill anybody, (my buddy got Crysis 
 months later of buying in a shop the day of the release, and he didn't bored) .
  
  - Other case was the control scheme: - WTF?? a XBOX360 scheme? The thing is, this game is prepared 
 for 360 controller too, and the original game is joystick-based gameplay, so they have made the 
 options look like that. PS: There's an option to change the scheme.
  
  Now, let's go to the main theme:
  
  The game, as the other versions, it follows the story of 
 Niko Bellic, a recent inmigrant from europe arrives to Liberty City, were he plans to have a good 
 life without problems, get money and rid of his old life memories. His cousin Roman welcomes him. 
 Roman believes as him as an important person, but he's the owner of and old and decadent taxi company. 
 Later, Niko realises that his "peaceful" life, won't be like he wanted. Roman was involved with 
 gangs and other criminal stuff, so Niko has to work with them to solve the problems and get rid 
 of the mess. For the people that didn't play the game, i let you follow the story yourself, because 
 i don't want to ruin this movie-like plot.
  
  Now lets go to the most important points and the must-improve ones:
  
  The Good:
  - Superb 
 graphics and detailed enviroment
  - It makes you feel you're there. Sucks you in
  - Superb movie-like plot and great surprise
  - Great moments that let you jaw-dropping
  - Great 
 gunfights
  - Superb Euphoria engine let's you play with physics
  - A lot of variety
  - Looooong and lot of stuff to do
  - Open-world multiplayer and lots of modes
  
  The Bad:
 
  - Some technical and FPS issues on higher qualities
  - Restricted options on high quality
  - No car tunning, no planes
  - In some cases, buggy
  - Offline activation sometimes can be 
 a mess
  - Some random crashes
  
  So, this is the end of my review, i thinks this game is a must-buy if you have a good rig, and 
 i give it a 9. Let's wait if Rockstar surprises us with a patch to fix the bad stuff. I hope this 
 review helped you, and have a nice day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BeatMith
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 3, 2008 4:24 am PT
Review:  Where do you start ? Securerom didn't like daemon , uninstalled it and it works - by works I mean 
 signing up for half a dozen different rockstar and microsoft services .
  An hour after doing that your set to play right ? Wrong ! It crashes with a fatal error relating 
 the microsoft gaming service , easy fix sign out of microsoft live - YAY it works ... but you can't 
 save your games and locks up 5 minutes into game .
  I'm a die hard PC gamer who'll never touch a console (anymore) and love the GTA series , this is 
 a kick in the genitals after waiting so long after our console counterparts release only to pay 
 for this buggy POS .
  A lesser person might just take it back to the store for a refund and download a cracked version 
 - I personally won't but I could hardly blame someone for doing so !
  I would recommend avoiding GTAIV at least until somethings are soughted out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faisal_6600
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  I like games to play on my pc i like pc games and this is right that pc has better graphics than 
 console
  so, gta4 pc has better graphics than console console version got 10 but pc version get 92, 9, and 
 89 for its late release otherwise pc version is much better it has video editor, better multiplayer, 
 coustom radio and better graphics so i do not like to give less than 10 score to pc version i am 
 a die hard gta fan this is right that gtasa is a amazging game gta4 has no plane no fitness diet 
 and player stats map sige is also low but it is good it has many other thing i know the next rockstar 
 game will like gtasa i like gta4 it has its fun its like gtavc a little map but many other system 
 to get fun and enjoy the game gta is my best series and rocstar is best gaming company i like it 
 very much i do not know why the people (many) do not like gta4 .
  
  pc version has a better controle and amzing graphics makes game much beautiful . so there is no 
 bad thing in pc version everything is very good so my review is now finish and i say
  
  "Gta4 is the best game of year 2008" 
  i give a score of 10/10 *
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
