-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Grand Theft Auto
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/grandtheftauto/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 24, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.4
Critic Score: 7.9, 5 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 1,510 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: ASC Games
Developer: DMA Design
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Feb 28, 1998 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Small details - like the beeping sound a truck makes when it backs up, the various engine sounds, 
 or the way pedestrians scream and run if you drive on the sidewalk - add to GTA's cool factor. 
 

 It's hard to say why Grand Theft Auto is so much fun to play, since many people seem to get bored 
 with it quickly. The simplicity of the gameplay might be one factor: You spend most of your time 
 driving a little car through city streets, collecting points for committing crimes. It might sound 
 like a good time initially, but for how long? For many, the answer will be "not very long."  

 
 So what type of gamer will enjoy GTA? Let's reflect on your childhood for the answer. First, did 
 you like Hot Wheels and Matchbox cars a lot when you were a kid? Second, did you spend most of 
 your time ramming the aforementioned toy cars into one another and lighting them on fire? If you 
 answered "yes" to these questions, there's a good chance you'll enjoy .   

 But enough psychoanalysis. Sure, it's fun to cruise around the cities in GTA, running over innocent 
 pedestrians and hijacking cars, then using them to crash into others for points. But your real 
 purpose in the game is trying to get noticed by the local crime syndicate. To do that, you must 
 successfully complete jobs for big points. Get enough points, and you'll advance to the next level 
 and go on to other cities and bigger jobs. The more successful you are, the more difficult the 
 jobs get. Some will be in multiple parts; others will have a time limit. And just because you work 
 for the wrong side of the law doesn't mean you're safe from harm. Blow up a car with a rocket launcher 
 while standing too close, and you'll be a crispy criminal. The life of crime is dangerous and risky. 
 Even if you don't get killed or severely hurt, the cops will be after you all the time.  

 That's why patience is important. You can drive around recklessly all you want, but you'll constantly 
 have the cops on your tail, interfering with your assigned job and the points you'll need to get 
 to the next level. The easiest way to get the cops after you is by running over people or crashing 
 into a squad car, and, unless you're sadistic, you usually run over people accidentally because 
 of reckless driving.  

 It can take as long as two hours to achieve one million points and proceed to the second level. 
 Later on, you'll need three million, which can take as long as five to six hours to achieve. This 
 is somewhat frustrating because you can't save your game during levels. Since the game comes with 
 a Windows 95 version you can multitask, so you don't have to tie up your PC playing the game, but 
 if your system crashes, you're out of luck.  

 GTA is fun, and it has some excellent features. Vehicles all have appropriate physics. They steer, 
 brake, accelerate, and handle like you might expect. Sports cars can stop and turn on a dime, but 
 aren't very durable (if your car takes too much damage, it won't run properly and might even explode) , 
 while trucks have a large turning radius and take a long time to get up to speed, but are fairly 
 durable. Small details - like the beeping sound a truck makes when it backs up, the various engine 
 sounds, or the way pedestrians scream and run if you drive on the sidewalk - add to GTA's cool 
 factor.  

 Once you get good at driving the cars, especially the fast sports cars, you can really zip through 
 traffic. On roadways, if you gently tap the turn buttons, you can change lanes to avoid traffic 
 without compensating for recentering the car, since it does so for you automatically. That makes 
 a big difference when you're speeding down one of the multilane interstates. Another feature that 
 really helps is how the perspective zooms in and out, determined by your rate of speed - it zooms 
 in when you're going slow and out when you're going fast to expand your field of vision. The only 
 flaw with this technique is that it doesn't always zoom in right away, so a tall building can block 
 the view of your car until it does.  

 GTA is a good game that is highly recommended at a bargain price, but won't win any awards. Wanna-be 
 sociopaths who can deal with the shortcomings will have a lot of fun, and if you could save games 
 within levels, it would come even more highly recommended.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (27 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: aryoshi
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 5:11 am PT
Review:  Yes, indeed, this was the origin of the ever-so-famous series invading the homes of many. GTA has 
 left a reputation of not only being available on consoles, such as this was on the PSX, but also 
 left a mark on the PC alike. 
  
  This one is certainly different from the series from III and beyond, starting mostly at the graphics. 
 Rather than a 3rd-person camera from behind the main character, players get to see the entire game 
 from a bird's eye perspective. 
  
  Mainly, the story in this isn't entirely anything epic, only that you're a small-time criminal 
 whom must take calls as a mercenary in the world of crime and gangs. Doing so will give money, 
 a higher reputation, and more than likely a swarm of police. 
  
  In the game, the main character must go through a series of missions, and along the way will be 
 jacking cars, beating up or gunning down targets, blowing up a police station, helping with bank 
 heists, and a large array of other things. Sounds fun? It can be, but after half an hour of it, 
 will become like a chore and soon enough, a drag.
  
  Good: Realistic sounds of the city, large selection of vehicles at the tips of your fingers, good 
 variety of weapons.
  
  Bad: Vehicles go out of control easy, camera view can become irritatingly straining, controls are 
 messy, long gameplay can be punishing.
  
  Graphics: Not very bad, but still not the best. The overhead perspective wasn't a horrible idea, 
 but the way some buildings can get in the way when you're driving on the side of a road while trying 
 to get away from the police can drive one insane, especially if it causes one to fail at their 
 getaway. While there isn't a whole lot to say about graphics, there is quite a bit to see as the 
 player speeds in their vehicle and the camera zooms out.
  
  Sound/Music: A lot of the sounds the player will hear are the casual loud noises of everyday city 
 life. Other sounds such as horns, gunshots, sirens, crashes, engines, cussing of angry citizens 
 and even your own sounds you can make, consisting of humourous belches and farts, only add to the 
 large array of audio. As for the music, it ranges depending on the vehicle you take. Some play 
 country, some rock, even rap, it all plays on the radio in the vehicle. However, per genre, it 
 only plays one song over and over.
  
  Difficulty: Some missions appear to be easy, while some hard, all of them only give you one try 
 at the mission. Whether you pass or fail, you will always have to move onto the next selections 
 of missions.
  
  Gameplay: As an overhead action game, the primary goal is to move out of th simple life as a small-time 
 criminal up to number-one most wanted. In doing so, you will be helping with robberies, transporting 
 illegal material, even killing. You will be assigned different missions by answering payphones 
 that ring and flash. As you pull them off, you must avoid getting arrested by police, or even attacked 
 by them, and also avoid gangsters trying to kill you. Remember, in the life of crime, blood is 
 money, and your blood counts.
  
  Controls: Probably the biggest downer of the game is the controls. They can become irritatingly 
 difficult to use, especially if it's your first time playing the game. Driving a car isn't as bad, 
 but going at a high speed and next to no way of slowing the car to make it easier to maneuver can 
 make the player steam out the ears.
  
  Overall: It doesn't exactly take a hardcore fan of the series to pick the game up, if you can bypass 
 the bad controls and increasingly-boring gameplay, it isn't bad all in all. I just wouldn't suggest 
 spending 3 hours in a row playing it, you may not want to bother playing again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DendromutantX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I've read a lot of things about how this game is shallow, lacks any sort of plot, and has terrible 
 controls. I've also read a lot about this game warping the minds of our youth. After having completed 
 the game for the third time, I would like to now write a review.
  
  Graphics: At the time of the game's release, the graphics were very decent, the zoom out when you 
 speed up looked fantastic, and the explosions were glorious.
  
  Sound: sure, the incomprehensible mumbling of your cellphone does get repetitive, as do the various 
 cheering sounds. But throw a stone at me if you didn't enjoy a crunching sound every time your 
 car drives over an innocent person. What about driving over an entire bunch of Elvis impersonators? 
 The cities of GTA are alive with sounds: pedestrians cursing, cars bumping into each other, cop 
 sirens and subway racket. I didn't think a game of this nature could ask for a better sound until 
 I heard car radio in GTA 2, but that was much later.
  
  Gameplay: You take a role of a lowly thug, doing freelance jobs for various criminal organizations. 
 The mission setup is pretty linear, though you can choose an order in which to do your missions. 
 The longer your crime streak, the faster you move towards achieving your goal (collecting a certain 
 sum of money) as for each succesful mission your respect in a form of profit multiplier increases 
 (it decreases when you're caught by cops) . You have a limited number of lives, so recklessness 
 is rarely rewarding. Combat system is pretty straightforward -- you face your enemy, then shoot.
 
  
  Controls: It took me at least thirty minutes to get used to controls, but once you master them, 
 you start wondering, how come doesn't every driving game has a similar control setup. Just like 
 driving a real car, you sometimes have to do counter-intuitive things with your keyboard in GTA. 
 I've never played it with a joystick, but I would suspect that its an utter hell.
  
  Replayablility: The game will not offer any new content if you choose to replay it, but its sandbox 
 nature will keep you occupied nonetheless.
  
  I give this game an 8.5 out of 10 for minor flaws in controls and linearity of the missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 4:57 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto. A game that has become a classic and which was the start point for many great 
 things that followed it. Grand Theft Auto is one of the first games that featured a entire city 
 at you disposal in which you can do basically anything you want. Dozens of cars, many pedestrians 
 good AI and much more. The game is a very unappreciated game and I don't know why. At the time of 
 it's launch it was unique. There was no other game out there in which you could kill a pedestrian 
 with your car and then get out of the car and kill all the other pedestrians on the street. There 
 are some good guns in the game which can make you life easier when the cops arrive. One of the cool 
 thing about this game is that you earn bonuses. If you kill someone you receive money. If you hit 
 a car you get money, if you hit it harder you earn more money. The sound effects are very good, the 
 engine noises being very different from car to car. The graphics aren't incredible but they help 
 the game-play be just right. Overall it is a classic and it's worth a buy, and because of it's age 
 it's pretty cheap. Good game.
  
  My Score 7.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 5:18 am PT
Review:  Story: Your a gangsta. Help gangs and mob bosses to random missions.
  Missions: kill everything on the planet and move on.
  
  Controls: point and click and arrow 
 keys and mouse.
  
  Features: Steal cars. kill people do cool stuff like that.
  
  A. I There is not really much AI use in the game. except for the civilian traffic.
  
  Graphics: 
 Bad for this day in age. but they should have be fine back in 1997. Not detailed at all!!
  Audio: meh. Ok sound and car sounds. Ambient and background sounds good.
  
  Multiplayer: LAN 
 Requirements: you gotta like top down games to play this one.
  
  The Good: Not much of anything. This game is really just bad compared to the 3d games.
  
  The 
 Bad: Near Everything
  
  The Ugly: Bubba
  
  Replay Ability: Medium
  
  The Bottom Line: The 1st GTA game in the series but is just not that great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bedram793
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 6/10
  Too pixely. Explosions suck. 
  
  Gameplay: 7/10
  Kind of simple. Walk around, drive, shoot all in a bird eye's view. It gets very repetitive though 
 and you'll find yourself bored. 
  
  Lasting Appeal: 7/10
  Single player isn't fun, nothing really to do besides that. Going around and driving isn't fun. 
 Getting weapons is a bit hard since it takes a while to find them and that pissed me off. Not really 
 much to do here. 
  
  Overall: 6.5/10
  Below average game. Gets boring very fast. GTA 2 is better. Probably the worst in the series if 
 I really had to say. Thank god they changed it later in the series to third person, or the Grand 
 Theft Auto games would be nowhere near as successful as they are now. It's better to stick to the 
 other Grand Theft Auto games, as this is a failure in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 11:29 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw GTA I thought to myself "Wow, those are some terrible graphics and that over head 
 view just seems annoying!". The reviews that came in certainly weren't that great either. It just 
 so happened that I happened to find this game one day, for a very very very cheap price in a local 
 store 1 year after it's release and thought "why not?". Though the graphics are pretty bad, even 
 for it's time, and the over head few can be a bit annoying, the gameplay itself was actually quite 
 fun. At first all I did was drive around, stealing cars, and seeing how many people/cops I could 
 shoot before getting killed. Eventually I started to pay attention and do the missions they were 
 given to me and found they were actually quite fun and some very challenging. It certainly wasn't 
 the best game I played that year, but it sure as hell didn't deserve a lot of the bad reviews it 
 had gotten. 
  
  So really this game was pretty much the same as the newer GTA games if you strip it down to the 
 core basics. You receive missions of various different people involved with various different crime 
 organizations involving various criminal activities while trying to avoid police and rival interference. 
 Certainly not the best in the series but still worth playing and makes a great time killer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: conflict_rules
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  this game is so great, your in a big city and you just gotta earn some money , how? whit just doing 
 everything against the law. you can kill people steal cars, bikes and trains and blow stuff up 
 all whit a result of beeing chased by the cops but you dont earn that much money whit it. you can 
 also do missions for some gangsters a arrow points at some missions but you can also find some 
 mission whit just searching around the city like you can get a mission when you enter a parked 
 car or when you answer a ringing phone and these missions are also pretty fun to do.
  
  you can also earn money whit selling cars to the docks but that isnt that much fun and there are 
 also several kill frenzies to find wich whil give you unlimited ammo and you must kill a numbre, there 
 are also special ones whit vehicles like tanks and RC cars of people before the timer runs out. 
 when you do some things against the law you'll get a wanted level.
  1 wanted level: some cops whil chase you
  2 wanted levels: more cops whil chase you
  3 wanted 
 levels: the cops whil blockade some roads
  4 wanted levels: the cops who blockade the roads whil have machine guns.
  you can lose wanted 
 level whit spraying your car. when your dead you'll go to the hospital and you'll lose a life when 
 you are busted you'll go to the police station and you'll lose all you multiplayer ups.
  
  when you got enough money then you must go to the big guy and then you're of to the next level 
 complete 2 levels in a city and you'll go to another city. these cities are liberty city (new york) , 
 san andreas (san francisco) , vice city (miami) .
  
  at a hospital or police station you'll find a pistol this will be your standart weapon there are 
 also 3 other weapons a machine gun and a flame thrower and rocket launcher (the flame thrower and 
 rocket launcher are not in liberty city) . 
  
  there are also other items like a prison key which will let you keep all the weapons you have if 
 you get busted, an armor which gives you 3 extra hits, speed up, extra life, multiplayer up which 
 will double your money what you get.
  
  this game is a must have its just so fun :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jun 11, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  Here it is the gmae that started it all. This game unlike the next gen versions is top down view 
 like the GBA game. The 2D graphics are very colorful, and the idea of being able to travel from 
 Liberty, to Vice, to San Andreas is pretty cool. in this game though you dont get the sense of 
 freedom, because of the top down. The cars control like a person walks so it is pretty easy to use 
 the arrow keys or whicever setup you like. My main problem with this game is that the cars move 
 to fast. I wouldnt be complaining about this in the new 3D games, but the over the top view makes 
 it hard to see where you are going, so if a car is just offscreen then you're likely to crash into 
 it. Hey, you need to go out and get this game. Why, do you ask when I say its not a perfect 10 
 game? Simple, it is availible for free downlaod and rockstar game's website. If you love the GTA 
 series and want to take a trip back to its roots, then head over and download it right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bozanimal
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 4, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  The original GTA was released in 1997, with the first city freely available as shareware. Grand 
 Theft Auto spread like a Paris Hilton tape through the internet due to the rebellious subject matter 
 and completely original concept. Never before had a player had such freedom of movement throughout 
 a game.
  
  For the first time in a game a player did not have a scripted path to follow. Instead, the player 
 was placed into a city with the ability to do anything. From a top-down perspective, the avatar 
 could run or walk in any direction of 360 degrees, punch, belch, fart, shoot (if equipped) , enter 
 a vehicle, and exit a vehicle. While there are certain scripted missions the player had the option 
 of completing, it was just as much fund to grab a car and drive around mowing down civilians and 
 being chased by the cops.
  
  Graphics: Grand Theft Auto had poor graphics at a time when Quake had been recently released (1996) . 
 However, it did support high resolutions to afford a larger view of the city. Still, the characters 
 were tiny sprites and the cars looked like matchbox versions of their inspiration.
  
  Sound: Grand Theft Auto set precedence for its sequels. Each car had its own radio station that 
 could be dialed in, though as a pedestrian there is no soundtrack. Instead, the game offers the 
 sounds of the city, and does a pretty good job in this regard. At all times there is the steady 
 sound of traffic. You can hear the footfalls of the character, and other characters shout, Hey, 
 watch it! when you bump into them. The trains and buses also have great sound effects.
  
  Gameplay: The original GTA allowed the player to become a free-agent criminal in a massive city. 
 You moved through cities by completing missions assigned to you by the various crime bosses. More 
 dangerous missions netted more points. After accumulating a certain amount of points, you were 
 then able to move to the next city. Each city had its own character, mimicking cities from New 
 York to Miami. The population of cars, items, missions, and people have a different flavor in each 
 city, but perform the same purpose. For example, the original city has normal city buses, but the 
 Miami city has Jesus buses , with large crosses painted on the roof. The missions are things such 
 as, Drive this car loaded with explosives to this destination or, Murder this guy that done me 
 wrong. Of course, one shot kills you so killing another character can be tough. There is just enough 
 variety and challenge to keep the player coming back, but do not expect a lot of depth to the game.
 
  
  Grand Theft Auto was a completely novel game, a rarity even in 1997. The original is worth playing, 
 since the interface is completely different from that of GTA III, which made the series truly famous, 
 as long as you know beforehand that the game is more novelty than revolutionary. Rockstar Games 
 allowed free downloads of the full version of the game the last I checked, so it is a true value, 
 if nothing else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Triple_H90
Rating: 6
Date: May 30, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto is basically a game for you, if you hate cops. Become the ultimate cop-killer. 
 The super cop-killing machine. Although doing this is not fun at all, especially at this point, 
 almost a decade after its' release on the PC. Still GTA1 is fair game and it's worth playing if 
 you're a die-hard GTA fan. If you want to own the whole Grand Theft Auto collection, this game 
 is free. You can download it in its' entirety from Rockstar Games website. GTA1, GTA2 and some 
 other Rockstar Classic are available for free on this website: http://www. rockstargames. com/classics/
 
  
  For free, it's worth getting it, again, only if you're a real GTA fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebelious
Rating: 8
Date: May 10, 2007 12:05 am PT
Review:  When I first heard of a game where you can steal cars and go around killing anyone you want, I 
 never believed it. Then I came across this game. I got to say looking back, it's hard to imagine 
 how such a simple game turned out to be fun at all. Yet alone be so controversial seeing as all 
 you can do is shoot and steal cars. There was no real story besides going to payphones to do crime 
 missions, like blowing up the police station. This is also home to the well know Liberty City, 
 Vice City, and San Andreas, which were made into their own games in the GTA3 trilogy. The game 
 looks like it could've simply been made for the NES. But at it's time it was definately a daring 
 game, and even though I cant see myself playing it now, I have to give respect to the Gta that 
 started it all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 26, 2007 11:57 pm PT
Review:  These days, the original GTA doesn't really live up to some of the other action games out there, 
 but it's hard to imagine any of them being around without its success. It's believed that this 
 was one of the first real sandbox games, meaning that the player is given a big open world to explore, 
 and do whatever he/she feels like. If you got tired of walking, why not 'jack a sports car and 
 mow some folks down? Having a bad day? What better way to blow off some steam than to steal a school-bus 
 and drive it off a bridge? Well, maybe that was just me... Still, I remember spending countless 
 hours driving around, shooting people all night long, and having some of the craziest car chases 
 with the police. See, back then, this generation of gamers were much more simple. Then, I didn't 
 care about story-lines, or cool graphics, or any lasting appeal. No matter how much I played, my 
 huge imagination allowed me to keep myself entertained. If I could think it, I could do it. One 
 thing I became really fond of doing was setting up a massive road-block with gas trucks and waiting 
 for a huge pile of traffic to build up, and then blow it all up. I haven't played GTA much for 
 a few years, mainly because I've been busy getting into newer games like Crackdown and Saint's 
 Row, but once in a while, it's fun to take a trip down memory lane again, if only for the sake 
 of nostalgia. Actually I recently found a way to hack my PSP and get it on there and I gotta say 
 it's pretty entertaining to just pull it out and dive in for a few minutes, cause some havoc, and 
 then stop again. But when there are games like Vice City Stories out there, you might be better 
 off sticking with that. The PlayStation 1 version isn't really any different but I'd say you're 
 better off with the PC version. It's a bit tricky to set up, but GTA on the PC has a little multiplayer 
 mode that lets you play around with a buddy. It's nothing incredible but it's good for a bit of 
 fun, if not a few laughs. Also, I'm pretty sure the game is now freeware, so you should be able 
 to download it from its website. Personally, I bought a double pack a few years ago that came with 
 the original and the London expansion. The expansion set isn't really a big deal and is basically 
 the same game, except the city is a bit different, and there are some new missions. The set I got 
 only cost like $5-$10 or so, so it's a pretty good value for what you get. If you want something 
 that's kinda fun to play around with, see about downloading it (try rockstar's website) or if you're 
 just a fan of the series, get the double pack. You can probably pick it up real cheap and used 
 at an EB games or something. We've been spoiled by Vice City and San Andreas and all those great 
 games, so this will seem pretty weak when stacked up beside those games, but if it weren't for 
 this old gem, we may not have games as distinctive and special as the Grand Theft Auto series.
 
  For its time, this game received an abundance of positive feedback. However, it received some 
 bad rep as well. While Rockstar games invented and redefined the Sandbox genre, they also (whether 
 deliberately or not) began another trend. Specifically, with politicians and parents. Aside from 
 games like Mortal Kombat, there wasn't a more-controversial game available. The crime rate was 
 high, so as soon as kids began blowing each other away and murdering innocent people, congressmen 
 and other politicians took aim at the game industry. They claimed that violent games such as this 
 were the cause of all the killing and violence in the real world. GTA has always encouraged killing, 
 but only in th game. However, these congressmen believed that it was encouraging and inspiring 
 people to kill both in the game world and in reality. While there were several lawsuits filed against 
 the developer, these cases were all thrown out of court, since there wasn't much evidence to prove 
 a connection between the two. Unless I'm wrong, even to this day, nobody ever really gets away 
 with suing the game industry. This is good because there are a lot of good people out there who 
 play this, but wouldn't dream of harming someone. However it's these sociopath gamers that give 
 games a bad reputation, and it really annoys me when people group all of us good guys with everyone 
 else, making us all look like a bunch of primitive, barbaric stereotypes. Still, I think because 
 of this controversy, the game became even more popular. The ironic thing is that the game is fairly 
 tame by today's standards. Back then, a few small drops of pixelated blood was considered extremely 
 violent and sick. But, there are many games out there nowadays that have you chopping off heads, 
 and disemboweling people. Hell, remember Manhunt (also developed by Rockstar) ? You could actually 
 choose how you would kill somebody, like breaking necks or suffocating with shopping bags.
  Whether people (and the government) like it or not, there's always gonna be some goof pointing 
 a finger at the industry, trying to use it as a scapegoat.
  In closing, this game is a must for any fan, but again, it's fun for the sake of nostalgia. It's 
 also entertaining because it truly shows just how far we've come along from flat, pixelated cities. 
 Still, this game was never about graphics and was deeply devoted to just good fun. And in the end, 
 isn't that the only thing that matters? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dom84ts
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2007 1:43 am PT
Review:  Only few points over 6?????
  Hey guys are you crazy???
  This is the beginning of the series!
  Everything started with this game! I remember i spent so 
 many hours on this game! Was released on 1998 and at that time was innovative and a lot funny!
 
  Destroy cars was the funniest thing! make super disastrous incidents with explosions of all kinds!! 
 A lot of weapons a lot of cars, trucks, motorcycles that you can steal drive and crash!
  Obviously if you started playing with GTA: vice city or later you aren't the right person to write 
 a review on this game because you have been influenced by graphics and sound of the new games! 
 I repeat this was the beginning of those masterpieces! And i still consider it like that! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2006 11:11 am PT
Review:  ok well i ferst got a demo and G T A was in it i thalt ok lets have a go and Boom i was hook i 
 dont no why cos its POOP the grathics have you evenseen the screen shots lol you can see it poop 
 lol ok well i dont no why i had to have the fall game i went strayt out and balt it hahahahaha 
 no lie i dident even leave me room untill i completed it i even had diner in my room lol ok well 
 ill get one with is naw.
  
  ok this is poop compered to the new G T A lol the new ones are 3D and no loding screens this is 
 just one for the coleters to colect =)
  
  ok game play yer cept me hoked
  
  grathis lol look at the screen shots ther well funy (i think they are)
  
  the music ther is 
 a bit in the game where ther is a gang shouting out grand theft auto lol i think its prity cool 
 lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Govvy
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 9, 2006 7:33 am PT
Review:  At last, a game with education! Educating you in the art of being a criminal, teaching you what 
 they think is a crime and my favourite form of education, having to read fast!
  
  You start of as a lowly thug and get the chance to make your way up. Like in an army game you goto 
 take those missions. So make your way over to the phones in South Park! How you get there is 
 up to you!
  
  Now read quickly and take it in, because if you miss reading it, you could screw up the mission. 
 There seem to be four main missions and a couple of off shoots from those missions. Now while on 
 those missions, stealing cars and moving around seems okay. But for the life of me, the controls 
 work, but seem all over the place at the same time. Targeting the enemy is tuff and avoiding going 
 to fast when being chased by police is just insane! You really can have loads of fun in this game, 
 but when the dust settles and you have done the main missions GTA suddenly takes a turn for the 
 worse.
  
  When I say lost in a maze, I mean it, there is just something wrong. To me it is being lost in 
 a city that seems to not have what you want.
  
  Graphics are fair, they arent the best, but adequate. The music fits well and the controls, well 
 the gameplay is left to be desired. There isnt a finishing feel to the game and that can be rather 
 annoying. Over all, great start, cool game, but how comes I can never seem to finish it! O well, 
 it got the better of me, which is a rarity because normally I can finish/complete most games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gugi_nayar
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 21, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  The first venture into the world of Grand Theft Auto had mixed reactions for me. On the one hand 
 Rockstar North (then DMA Design) released a product that had a big element of innovation in a field 
 that can only be called as experimentative gaming, while on the other, a host of problems greatly 
 mars the experience. Hugely criticized by the media at the time of its release, the game was banned 
 in quite a few nations. But, for those that did get a chance to play it, this game was something 
 out of the ordinary. A game which would allow for insane rampages through a normal looking town 
 and provide an eye view of the gang wars was something then quite unheard of. The basic story of 
 the game is that you are rookie in the gang world, looking to get noticed by the big fish of 
 the business. To do this you must prove that you are not such a nice-guy and have a lust for the 
 bad and the ugly. And to get the attention you need points, gathered by performing small jobs 
 in the beginning and tougher ones later on. There are also points for causing mayhem so youre 
 free to wreck the town but, these menial exercises offer very small rewards compared to the gang 
 jobs. The more points you get, the more your reputation rises within the circle and you get the 
 opportunity to expand your business by going to bigger towns with harder jobs. Some will have multiple 
 parts while some will be timed, or better yet a combination of the two.
  
  You take up missions initially through pay-phones and carry out the given instructions. The possibilities 
 of carrying out these missions is indeed endless. With a great assortment of weapons and paths 
 at your disposal, there is never a possibility of repetition. Even if you do the same mission twice, 
 there will always be something unexpected to watch out for. You can choose to go the silent way 
 and focus on completing objectives without attracting attention or if you prefer, go on all-out 
 rampage killing everything in sight. This offers many surprises to keep you interested for a while.
 
  
  Going against the law doesnt mean youre safe from it. The police will constantly be on your tail 
 and you must avoid them to successfully complete your missions. But, since the whole world is corrupt, 
 so are the police. Being locked up doesnt really mean game over. If you do get caught, all that 
 the police will do is take away your gun and additional bonuses gathered and let you loose on the 
 streets. Sort of like a big rap on the knuckles. But, you cannot afford to get caught too many 
 times. You only have certain number of lives available with you and if these run out, you need 
 to start all over again. You can however replenish your quota of lives by collecting life-points 
 scattered across the map. Progressing to the second level costs about one million points. The next 
 limit will be around three million and as such will continue getting higher and higher. The only 
 trouble here is that you cannot save between levels. So if a level has twenty missions, you will 
 have to get through all of them in one go before you can get to the next level. This becomes very 
 frustrating as the difficulty of the missions is constantly on the up. And playing 6-7 hours straight 
 is not always possible. If the power goes out in between, youre done for and will need to start 
 the level all over again.
  
  There is a great assortment of vehicles at your disposal. Any vehicle on the road can be stolen 
 with just a push of the button. And the great part here is that vehicles are actually are different 
 not only from the exterior, but also in their features. So a sports car will have better speed 
 and acceleration but less durability and a truck will be slow on speed but highly durable. Cars 
 also take up damage if hit against objects. This affects the performance of the car and some might 
 even explode if damaged beyond a certain limit and will cost you a precious life point.
  
  A new feature of this game is the perspective camera zooming. If youre driving slowly the camera 
 will be zoomed in and if youre moving quickly the camera is zoomed out to give you a bigger view 
 of the surroundings. Unfortunately, this feature is also plagued with problems. Sometimes the camera 
 zooms out too fast and may sometime even get stuck at a particular zoom. The zoomed-in view isnt 
 exactly that great either as the view is a bit distorted at times.
  
  The graphics department of the game can only be considered fair. The characters are a bit too small 
 for easy handling. The movements of characters can be a bit hard to spot in the zoomed-out view. 
 On the other hand, there is a lot of depth in the design of buildings, bridges, and the like. The 
 cities are huge and there is a lot of activity on the screen with pedestrians going everywhere 
 and running to save their lives when youre on the rampage. The designing even gives a slight impression 
 of the three-dimensional by appropriate zooming at places, though the game is basically a two-dimensional 
 rendition only.
  
  The sound department has been well-developed. The city is really alive with all the noises you 
 would expect. You can hear cars revving up, honking as they go about, gunfire sounds realistic 
 and so do the pedestrians going about their lives. The musical score of the game has been paid 
 attention to. Theres a different music for different activities. Cars also have specific radio 
 music on when you get into them. For example a sports car will have a funky radio station on while 
 a truck will have something more along the country-music line. You can however change the radio 
 stations so you need not fret if you do not like a specific music style. But, as is the problem 
 with nearly all the games features, sound can start glitching mid-game.
  
  Overall, the game had a lot to offer. But, the potential remains largely unused. Great innovative 
 ideas are downsized by the frequent problems and errors. Higher quality graphics may have really 
 made this an experience to be remembered. If you can look over the shortcomings of the game, there 
 is a lot on offer and high-adrenaline action to be experienced. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niftymatt490
Rating: 2.4
Date: Sep 16, 2006 9:07 am PT
Review:  This game is just awful. GTA 2 was a huge improvement over this and probably 100 times better than 
 this one. This game is horribly boring and you can't even see anything. The graphics are a complete 
 mess. I played one mission and I was done, it was just that bad and boring. GTA and GTA 2 are free 
 for download off the Rockstar website, but I recommend just getting 2 and save wasting your time 
 playing this one and get GTA 2 which is actually fun and you can see what you are doing as the 
 graphics in GTA are abysmal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nothgate4
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 9, 2006 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Well, for starters, in this game, you can hardly see 5 meters in front of you thanks to the overhead 
 game display. Also, I don't know many roads that have 6 lanes traveling through town, and railway 
 tracks where never that big! And when you fire, the bullets go at about 10 times slower than in 
 real life. That, and the weapon's them self just look silly. Well, if you think this game sounds 
 so cool, rent it first. But for me? No thanks. Next up, the cop cars, yes, in 10 seconds there's 
 always 16 police cars are'nt there! Of course! : ( This game is EH EHHHHH 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 4, 2006 2:07 am PT
Review:  This is the original GTA and for some reason seems very lonely in this GTA review page. The original 
 Grand Theft auto seems to be very unpopular. I first saw the game in 1999 a year after its release 
 after my brother bought it on PC. The graphics of course now-a-days are pretty bad though the game 
 was very good indeed. If in a car chase opposing cars would rev up and slide in front of you causing 
 you to crash, Throwing cars in front of trains blew them up instantly and killing was a lot harder! 
 The game contained three cities Liberty City, Vice city and San Andreas. Each one of these cities 
 has been released on the market in a fully 3-d game to make the GTA 3 trilogy. The audio for GTA 
 has been a popular thing even in the modern ones. A 60minute sound track can either be played constantly 
 or on the radio when you get in your car. People scream when you fire gun shots or start driving 
 on the sidewalk, police still chase you and eventually you get tanks after you. The game goes into 
 a birdseye view when you start playing giving you a clear iew of your roads and surroundings. What 
 added some realism and irritation was the fact there was no road map in game to tell you your current 
 location... youhad an out of game map and you would have to use some sort of navigational skills 
 if you wanted to try and find something.
  
  Overall this game is great and should be played by all major GTA fans! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fadi_S
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 22, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  GTA is 3 letters that everyone knows , it stands for Grand Theft Auto , one of the Greatest series 
 of games that everybody loves , that include : GTA III , Vice City , San Andreas .
  
  GTA 1 was a good game and it's fun to play , and it was the first game i never played a game like 
 it ..
  although i didnt play it at a regular pace at first , i enjoyed it alot .. you can steel cars as 
 many as you can and run away from the police , explode the cars and trucks , use all kind of weapons 
 and shoot whoever you want . but of course the main thing is to do missions (like all the gta's) .
 
  
  If you want a small game (we're talking 10MB!!) and a fun one , just download this game .. it a 
 Freeware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fistfull_of_me
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 16, 2006 12:53 am PT
Review:  When this game hit the shelves way back in 98, it certainly didnt come with all the controversy 
 the later games did. Nevertheless, Grand Theft Auto started a revolution, so many copied what this 
 game started. One of the cool things about this game is you can go to Vice City and San Andreas. 
 I never knew that until I played!
  
  One of the games strongest points is the sound, all the cars weapons and people sound really neat. 
 Pretty much all the cars have a different sound; they even make really cruddy noises when you smash 
 it up too much. The guns all sound great; the rocket launcher makes a really cool whoosh sound 
 when you fire it. The explosions it makes sound even better. The flamethrower, however, is probably 
 the best sounding in the whole game. The pistol and machine gun sound kind of comical, it adds 
 a nice touch. The people that you come across, either in a car, or with a weapon of some sort in 
 your hand, always scream, that can get a bit annoying after a while, but I guess you need it there.
 
  
  The gameplay is definitely what makes or breaks a game, and it totally makes it on this one. The 
 fact that you can roam around and wreak havoc anywhere you want is fantastic. The cities are sooo 
 huge, you can easily get lost in them, but thats not necessarily a bad thing either. Sometimes 
 when you explore the place, you come across new weapons or upgrades. The best upgrade is probably 
 the multiplier, it really helps when you have a tonne of cops after you and youve got a rocket 
 launcher in your possession. On top of the complete and utter freedom you have, you can do missions 
 for the local gangs and crime lords, some of these missions include just getting a car to crane, 
 to killing the local bikie gang and taking their drugs.
  
  The graphics on this particular GTA take a little adjusting to. There probably not what your used 
 to. However, once you get past this little insignificant flaw, the game looks really neat. The 
 buildings have a lot of detail in them and the whole environment looks really good. The cars have 
 plenty of different damage animations, and the explosions that can sometimes happen look fantastic. 
 The bullets look funny though, their just little tiny dots on the screen, but that helps you aim 
 as you have no way of telling where youre going to shoot next.
  
  Despite many of the tiny flaws in Grand Theft Auto, it ultimately comes out to be quite fun and 
 addictive. Rockstar. com has the full game up for download, so there are no excuses not to play 
 this little gem.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crayakow
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:26 am PT
Review:  ok well i ferst got a demo and G T A was in it i thalt ok lets have a go and Boom i was hook i 
 dont no why cos its POOP the grathics have you evenseen the screen shots lol you can see it poop 
 lol ok well i dont no why i had to have the fall game i went strayt out and balt it hahahahaha 
 no lie i dident even leave me room untill i completed it i even had diner in my room lol ok well 
 ill get one with is naw.
  
  ok this is poop compered to the new G T A lol the new ones are 3D and no loding screens this is 
 just one for the coleters to colect =)
  
  ok game play yer cept me hoked
  
  grathis lol look at the screen shots ther well funy (i think they are)
  
  the music ther is 
 a bit in the game where ther is a gang shouting out grand theft auto lol i think its prity cool 
 lol
  
  ok well this is rilly one for the coleters im going to leav this a 10 out of 10 cos its wicked 
 =) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KRAMDEER
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2005 3:30 am PT
Review:  I still remember the first time I played GTA it was on the game-boy color. The graphics were nothing 
 great but the game play was awesome , I loved it you could get in and out of the car and walk around 
 get a different car if you wanted, run people over, shoot guns, do jobs for people, and just goof 
 off. I think the thing that made this game so good is the freedom it gives compared to the other 
 games at the time it was the first of it kind that I played. 
  
  so if your are look to play a good classic game this should be on your list! It is a good game 
 if you need to kill some time, or vent some anger load up GTA classic and have some fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GCrocksPS
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 14, 2005 8:59 am PT
Review:  You are running round with a bloody big gun and suddenly... wasted! That's all GTA is. Run and gun... run 
 and gun... and so on. It's a great game, let down by minor flaws.
  The sound is flawed, because it doesn't really fit and sometimes doesn't even work. In fact, there 
 is hardly any sound unless you get a car.
  The graphics are alright but could have been better for a game of that period. The sharp visuals 
 are punctured only by the unrealistic viewing of it.
  It's easy enough to pick up and play, but for long periods I wouldn't reccomend it.
  One of my 
 shorter reviews, mainly because the game needs a bit of fine tuning, but other than that, a great 
 game with an allright storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDWilliams05
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 30, 2005 6:55 pm PT
Review:  This was a cool game for its time. The concept was totally off the wall, and it gave players hours 
 upon hours of semi-violent (compared to todays games) goodness. This is an awesome time killer 
 you can just pick up and play it. You can't find it anymore on the store shelves however i came 
 across a gem in the bargin bin at walmart... Grand theft auto I, II and III for PC, so if you want 
 to see what it was like before GTA went west coast, check it out and have a blast. The greatest 
 thing about this game is its just pick up and play, nothing real in-depth game play lets the casual 
 violent gamer to wreak whatever havoc they want, and then just quit, when they are done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBuXL
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 14, 2005 12:57 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game of the famous GTA series that many of you have probably known by checking 
 out VIce City or San Andreas. What's so great about the series is simply the complete freedom of 
 moveing around and doing anything you want in a city that lives and breathes under your very eyes. 
 Now, anyone would just want to grab a machine gun and shoot an old lady that is slowly trying to 
 get back to her house, anyone would want to run over a pedestrian after stealing his car, all that 
 is what Grand Theft Auto is all about. During your stay in one of the three cities though you will 
 also get phone calls from gang leaders and mafia bosses that will ask you to do favors for them, 
 such as killing someone, stealing a suitcase or car and many more. Of course this one doesn't have 
 anything of the new graphics that the latest GTA games have, but then again it was released way 
 back in 1998 and yet it still has some sort of top view 3D.
  If you have the new Grand Theft Auto games and really enjoy them, I think you should check this 
 one out too, just to see how it all started. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rover301
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 6, 2005 5:17 pm PT
Review:  If you're thinking that this game is like Vice City or like the other latest GTA's then you're 
 wrong. This game is very different from those games. First of all you play it from a view above 
 the player. That's a little bit strange and it plays not so well. This cult classic let you play 
 as a criminal who has to do some jobs to earn money. It attracted players that they had a whole 
 city for there own. And it was funny not to play the hero but to play as a criminal. That is probably 
 the reason why it was so popular. Because it isn't a very revolutionary game.
  
  The graphics are ok. It isn't 3D and for 2D graphics the graphics are ok. The character models 
 aren't very detailed just like the cars. It has the look of a comic strip. The explosions are pretty 
 good. It's too bad that they didn't spend more time to create better graphics.
  
  The sound is one of the best things about this game. It has the sound of a city. The radio stations, 
 one of the best things in GTA: Vice City, are also superb. Too bad that you don't have any voice 
 acting.
  
  The game has much value. You first play in Liberty City. Later in the game you can unlock Vice 
 City and San Andreas. So the game has much value to keep you busy!
  
  It's a pretty good game. Not the best game I've ever seen but ok. I'm a fan of the GTA series but 
 this is probably the worst game in the GTA franchise. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
