-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Grand Prix 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/grandprix3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 28, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.8, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 169 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Hasbro Interactive
Developer: Atari
Genre: Formula One Racing
Date:     Aug 24, 2000
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While it may not be everything that Grand Prix II players hoped for, it's still a reason for F1 
 fans to rejoice. 

 NASCAR may reign in the US, but Formula 1 is the worldwide king of auto racing. The F1 season ranks 
 second only to soccer's World Cup and the Olympics in TV sports viewership. Not surprisingly, game 
 companies have been quick to offer F1 racing simulations to fans of the motor sport, including 
 Electronic Arts' recently released F1 2000 and Eidos Interactive's F1 World Grand Prix. These games 
 have their strengths, but they still haven't earned the status of Geoff Crammond's Grand Prix II, 
 which was released in 1996 and is still considered to be one of the few truly superb F1 sims because 
 of its combination of excellent graphics, detailed realism, and great gameplay. Fans still speak 
 of it reverently, which is why its new sequel, Grand Prix 3, was so highly anticipated. It's finally 
 available, and while it may not be everything that Grand Prix II players hoped for, it's still 
 a reason for F1 fans to rejoice.   

  Installing Grand Prix 3 is simple enough because the full installation is just 320MB, but getting 
 your controller configured is a different matter. You'll need to calibrate it in the game, even 
 if you've already calibrated it in Windows. Oddly, the game doesn't recognize the third axis of 
 your controller; if you use dual-axis pedals or a separate throttle on your joystick, you're out 
 of luck. A patch to fix the problem has been announced. The controller configuration menu itself 
 is a bit convoluted, and the same holds true for the game's menu system in general. There are some 
 annoying oddities in the labeling and layout of the menu items that, at least at first, will have 
 you leaping back and forth to find the options you want. Fortunately, the menu items feature detailed 
 pop-up tooltips.   

  Grand Prix 3's graphics are amazing one moment and embarrassing the next. When you first boot the 
 game, it will choose the optimal settings for your system, and it does a decent job of configuring 
 itself for reasonable frame rates. Later you can easily switch the resolution and tweak many detail 
 settings to your own preference. The opening video and credits are stylish and effectively help 
 you get into the game, as do the great full-screen background photos that grace the menu pages. 
 These background shots are also appropriate to the individual menus; for example, behind the sound 
 menu, you'll see a picture of McLaren driver Mika Hakkinen plugging his ears.   

  On the track itself, the graphics quality varies widely. The cockpit is excellent: The steering 
 wheel LCD readout, gearshift warning lights, and other indicators are all carefully detailed. The 
 actual car models are also well detailed, from the individual wheel spokes to the varied sponsor 
 logos. When cars collide or crash, individual pieces will shatter and fly off. But it's the game's 
 weather effects that really steal the show: Rain can start to fall partway through a race, and 
 you'll see dim reflections in the puddles. As cars race ahead of you, they'll spray mist that partially 
 obscures your view. You'll even notice the track start to dry on the common racing line. Sometimes 
 it will rain on one part of the track but not on another, as in the recent German Grand Prix. These 
 weather quirks call for vital tactical decisions: On one occasion, I was leading a race through 
 Spa when it started to pour on just part of the track. With the race nearly done, I didn't want 
 to lose time in the pits switching to wet-weather tires. Not switching tires worked for Rubens 
 Barrichello in the German Grand Prix, but I was no Barrichello: I spun out on a slick curve and 
 ended up in fifth place, which was a frustrating but fun way to lose.   

  Despite these strengths, the game does have some pretty serious graphics flaws. The trees look 
 pixelated and poorly shaded. The shadows are also too blocky and too dark. Distant objects will 
 sometimes oddly pop in and out of view as you approach, and you can sometimes see through barriers. 
 Spectators in the stands look more like repeated rows of colored dots than like actual individuals. 
 Your pit crew in Grand Prix 3 is also composed of bitmaps that look bad compared with the 3D polygonal 
 graphics in the game. Yet the game's biggest graphics flaw is that without an extremely fast system, 
 you'll have to crank down most of the detail settings to retain any sense of fluidity and speed. 
    

 Just as the graphics quality varies widely, so too does the sound. The music is effective, particularly 
 the intro movie theme that starts in a minor key and builds to a crescendo when the lights go green. 
 The game's sound effects are generally varied and colorful. Your engine's whine is forceful instead 
 of weak as in many other F1 sims. Shifting gears, locking wheels, skidding into the gravel pits, 
 and crashing into barriers sound realistic and weighty. But oddly enough, when I hit a nearby car, 
 it was silent as it flipped up off the track and tumbled into the wall, spraying wheels and wings 
 as it went. What's worse is that you don't hear cars approaching during passing attempts. Another 
 flaw is the lack of radio traffic between drivers and their pit crews. Unlike in F1 2000, you won't 
 hear your team updating you on the race situation; instead, you'll just get blocky typed messages 
 at the top of the screen.   

  The graphics and sound can be very frustrating, but the game isn't really about eye candy; it's 
 about gameplay, and that's where it excels. You can select from four different race types: quick 
 race, practice, full race weekend, or full championship season. The 16 tracks, all featured in 
 beautiful overhead previews, can be configured for variable rain or sunshine. Starting grid position, 
 practice time limits, number of laps, and other options are easily changed. Grand Prix 3 is a FIA-licensed 
 product, so you'll get to choose actual drivers, but you're stuck with the 1998 teams. Cars all 
 use the same model, but you can allow for the possibility of different component breakdowns to 
 add to the realism. To suit your skills, you can toggle driver aids like steering assistance and 
 computer-controlled gear shifting. With all the aids selected, the car practically drives itself, 
 which makes the game accessible to novices.   

  Grand Prix 3's physics are realistically challenging. Snap spins, wheel lockups, and over- and 
 understeer are all simulated. You'll need a lot of practice to handle the car on the hardest difficulty 
 settings: At first, it feels like you're trying to steer a rocket across an ice rink. Rain also 
 has a real effect on handling - it's not just for show. Meanwhile, computer-controlled drivers 
 will protect their lines, outbrake you, and provide aggressive competition. However, the computer's 
 artificial intelligence does have flaws. When I spun through a tight corner on a narrow section 
 of the Monaco circuit, I came to a stop in the middle of the road, blocking other cars. Since there 
 wasn't room for those behind me to pass, all the cars just kept banging into me repeatedly. When 
 a single F1 gearbox alone can cost over $100,000, that just wouldn't happen in real life.   

  It's that sort of leading-edge technology, coupled with incredibly powerful engines, that lets 
 real F1 cars blast down straights at 200mph. Nevertheless, F1 racing is a very subtle sport where 
 times are measured in thousandths of a second. Highly precise tweaking of the car is a must, and 
 Grand Prix 3 also excels at letting you do this. Before each race, you can change your pit-stop 
 strategy and tire selection based on rain probability. On the car setup page, you can opt for preset 
 optimal car configurations, or you can create your own and save them for future use. Wing angles, 
 brake bias, gear ratios, suspension, and more are all highly configurable. Make no mistake: While 
 it can be fun for beginners, at its heart, Grand Prix 3 is a hard-core simulation.   

  Multiplayer competition is available over a LAN, serial cable, or direct modem connection. Unfortunately, 
 there's no true Internet play with an in-game server browser. The game wouldn't recognize my cable 
 modem, either. Grand Prix 3 also has an unusual multiplayer mode, where you and your opponent take 
 turns driving different cars on the same computer, while the computer drives for the player who's 
 sitting out.   

  Grand Prix 3 is hardly perfect; in fact, the menus, graphics, and sound can be really disappointing 
 at times. Nonetheless, the game is definitely more than the sum of its parts. All the small details 
 that add to the realism clearly show that it's a labor of love created by true F1 fans, and the 
 realism and complexity only add to the fun, instead of defeating it. The huge number of options 
 creates great diversity and replay value, although the options can be a bit difficult to deal with 
 for the novice. Grand Prix 3 isn't a masterpiece, but if you can live with some of its shortcomings, 
 it'll prove to be a challenge that you can keep coming back to.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  First of all, in some areas Grand Prix 3 needed to address the gaping holes left by Grand Prix 
 2. Weather stands out as the number one missing item. How anyone can release a Grand Prix sim without 
 some kind of weather is beyond me (as EA has also now learned the hard way) . Also missing was multiplayer. 
 It goes without saying that we all wanted to see really good use of 3D hardware, and we also didn't 
 want another game which required a leading edge machine to run acceptably, and have to wait for 
 machine speeds to double before the game would look the way it was designed to.
  
  Other than these things, Grand Prix 2 was considered a masterpiece. The AI was generally solid, 
 the gameplay was well balanced, driving aids made the game wonderfully accessible to novices, and 
 the level of authenticity was high. So Grand Prix 3 needed to avoid fixing what was not broken 
 and bring this game to the year 2000 in terms of technology.
  
  The results are a mixed bag. For each item that was updated and modernized, something else was 
 left in the DOS stone age, leaving my mouth hanging open in shock. I should have been a little 
 suspicious when I saw that Microprose's staff and not the mastermind and head programmer, Geoff 
 Crammond, did NOT do the 3D work. He just updated his software engine, leaving Microprose to pick 
 and choose just what to put into the 3D hardware and how it would work. The result is a blend of 
 2D and 3D technology that works well from a gameplay standpoint, but often looks antiquated compared 
 to newer games.
  
  Some of the screenshots which accompany this review will reveal the game's graphical shortcomings. 
 But the most obvious thing is the heavy use of 2D art and sprites in the game, taken right out 
 of the DOS world. From a performance standpoint, this isn't a bad thing. Today's computers scoff 
 at the simplicity of sprite manipulation, and blending in 2D objects keeps the frame rate from 
 taking a dive because of an overly massive polygon count. The most obvious use of this comes when 
 you are in the cockpit following a car. Canned sprites of cars are used for any car more than a 
 car length ahead or behind you. The software just blips a copy of that car pointed in the correct 
 direction. They did a good job for the most part. While you're racing this won't bother you much 
 unless you're really looking. If you do, you'll see the car sink a bit into the road ahead or seem 
 to float above it several inches from time to time as the canned sprite cannot possibly line up 
 on a banked surface or an elevation change. As soon as you get within a car length, a little transformation 
 occurs and the car is now a fully polygonal object that you can race with. This keeps the frame 
 rate high. Was this a trade-off to gain performance at the expense of some aesthetics? Or are we 
 just seeing a 2D relic that no one wanted to fix? Who knows? However, I do feel I can safely say 
 that it doesn't really affect gameplay much, so we can note it as an example of how Grand Prix 
 3 differs from its competition its use (or rather non-use) of current technology.
  
  The same is true for the pretty backgrounds. As I own all the current F1 titles, I did some screen-to-screen 
 comparisons of the backdrops and overall image quality and in terms of re-creating the natural 
 environment around a track, GP3 is unmatched. Others had to sacrifice detail because their worlds 
 are polygonal. Unfortunately, some corners were cut. A classic example is curbing. In GP3, the 
 curbing is not always true to the real life track. Red and white curbs are used most everywhere, 
 even though in real life, some curbs are higher and are painted plain white. Imola stands out as 
 such a place. Does this affect gameplay? You bet. Those curbs have to be bounced around on in real 
 life to get a fast time, and they are much different in personality than curbs at, say, Brazil, 
 because they are steeper. Unless you are cornering hard on them, you can generally deal with GP3's 
 curbs without being thrown into a spin (unlike, ahem, UbiSoft's titles) .
  
  The other main problem with the 2D/3D graphics engine in Grand Prix 3 is that clipping is a mess, 
 but it generally only really hurts on replay (screenshots are provided which show the clipping) . 
 Entire segments of walls are often removed completely to show cars, because the engine is incapable 
 of clipping the bottom half of the car so you can see just the top over the barrier. This is simply 
 not a competent graphics engine from that perspective, and causes artifacts and weird images to 
 show up which destroy the suspension of disbelief.
  
  The in-car view is pseudo 3D. If you have a 3D card, you can zoom in or out in your cockpit view. 
 Sitting back provides a Grand Prix Legends style view with the cockpit and car way out in front 
 of you, but you can actually see beyond the sides of your wheels, allowing you to look into and 
 through turns (it's a major bummer that auto head panning was not included here &iquest; these 
 guys should look at Lankhor's F1 World Grand Prix for that!) . The steering wheel turns, without 
 any hands on it, and is full of all the information you need to race. You can see your tires, unlike 
 GP2, and they look okay in shape, but in terms of their 3D appearance, there is almost none. The 
 light reflection off of them is pixilated goo (see screenshot) . This can be distracting if you're 
 used to gorgeously realistic wheels such as those in F1WGP, but again, ultimately the job is not 
 to stare at your tires or admire the pixilated trees but to drive really fast, so this doesn't 
 affect gameplay much. It just demonstrates, yet again, that Microprose has delivered a dinosaur 
 of a graphics engine.
  
  The cars, when polygonal, are modeled well, and they look just fine from a replay view, complete 
 with the helmet of the driver being moved around due to the high-speed turns. Smoke flies out from 
 the wheels that lock up under braking, and in the rain a flume of nice looking spray flies up from 
 the track. Speaking of weather, Geoff Crammond and Co. solved this problem with a vengeance. As 
 the screenshots will show, the rain effects are just amazing. Every moment from the first drop 
 of rain to the downpour to the sun drying the track is modeled very nicely. The weather can be 
 pouring rain in one segment of the track and drying on another (particularly at Spa, which is so 
 huge the weather can indeed vary dramatically throughout a single lap) . At the beginning of every 
 session, a bar chart for the next 2 hours shows up letting you know what the probabilities are 
 of rain, and the relative probabilities for light, medium, or heavy rain. This lets you plan ahead 
 and make last second changes, or change your pit stop strategy to account for the weather.
  
  The tracks are generally fine in terms of their realism. I've seen some things to nitpick about, 
 but that happens with every sim. The biggest offender, as I mentioned, is the curbing, but there 
 are some banking inaccuracies and a couple of elevation changes I'd question. Again, this is the 
 norm. I wish someone would really get it right but the odds of that happening after his many years 
 of disappointment have made me cynical. Fortunately, the lap times are about right, and it'll take 
 work to match or beat the real F1 times for most sim racers (I exclude the mutants whose genetic 
 makeup lets them go 5 seconds faster than the rest of humanity in any given sim! Just kidding, 
 guys) .
  
  The game modes are pretty simple, allowing you to practice, run a single race or a championship 
 season. There is no fluff here in terms of playing modes. However, within the game, each session 
 is modeled accurately and is customizable. You can alter the lengths of sessions, for instance. 
 One thing that stands out as completely cool in my book is that you can save your race, anytime! 
 Not just between sessions or when you're in the pits, but at any point you want. So, unlike all 
 other competitors, anyone can reasonably attack a full-length race without having to dedicate uninterrupted 
 hours to it!
  
  I should also note that this game models the 1998 season, so expect to see the unlicensed Jacques 
 Villeneuve listed as some generic bloke at Williams, the last year before Zanardi took over that 
 seat. Fortunately, the GP3 hackers on the web have already put together 2000 carsets, which should 
 update the game and the car performances to today's standards. Unfortunately, it means that such 
 tracks as Indianapolis and Malaysia are not modeled in the game, but you still get to race Argentina, 
 which is gone in current sims.
  
  Replays will be automatically saved, but they aren't kept in one big stream for you to watch later. 
 Rather, if you want to view replays and save them, you must save each lap in a separate file. If 
 you want to save an entire race, you will need to go out of the race temporarily and save the last 
 several laps to separate files, and then load and view each one separately. This, to put it bluntly, 
 sucks. The only saving grace here is that for hot lapping and telemetry analysis it's nice to have 
 your laps all packaged up for you. Depending upon the amount of memory you have and the number 
 of AI cars that are on the track, you can temporarily pause, fetch and save a bunch of laps before 
 they are wiped from memory and are gone forever. I did a 17-lap race at Monza and got every lap 
 saved. There is a glitch here, however, in that the data logger doesn't kick in until lap 2 of 
 a race, so perhaps the most interesting lap, the first one, cannot be replayed! The only hope you 
 have is that you can hit the spacebar at any point in the game, hit R and watch the last 20 seconds 
 from any car and any camera angle, including TV cams. So if you do something really special on 
 lap 1 or just want to watch the start, make sure you're going in a straight line or doing something 
 pretty safe, and then watch the last 20 seconds from as many different perspectives as possible. 
 It's really fun watching passes this way. The downside is that you are taken right out of your 
 rhythm, so make sure you remember what you were doing before you unpause the game!
  
  A 3D tumble and damage model is implemented which can cause the car to roll over or otherwise catch 
 air. Hitting someone in the rear wheel can make that half of the car go airborne, giving you a 
 nice view of the underbody and the plank. Hitting something too hard can shear a wheel off, and 
 you can have wings ripped off as well. Engine blow-ups and flameouts are also quite possible. The 
 car, however, is built pretty strong, so most shunts into walls are forgiven with no damage. There 
 is a threshold at some point at which the game decides that you merit serious punishment and it 
 will appropriate rip off a piece of your car, but it's not like a few competitors where the slightest 
 shunt would flatten a wheel.
  
  A fully equipped garage is there to let you load and save setups, and there are two pages of setup 
 screens (see screenshots) so this will help anyone who really wants to fine-tune the car. Laps 
 can be fetched into the performance analyzer, graphed, and compared with one another. It's a great 
 way to find out where your driving or car setup could be improved, but it's really for the hardcore 
 sim fan. Thankfully, a huge manual is provided with a detailed tutorial on how to get the most 
 out of telemetry and how to best find the racing line and go faster.
  
  The really good news about this game is that is immensely playable. It's easier to drive throughout 
 most of the driving envelope than its competitors, and that makes it easier to concentrate on racing. 
 Sure, if you really want to be fast, you're going to be right on the edge and you might well lose 
 control of your car, but the car is quite drivable within its limits using the default setups. 
 Also provided is a full array of driving aids to help anyone drive, even if all they have is a 
 keyboard. The aids will keep you on the racing line, suggest gears for you, or auto shift if you 
 like. It will also keep your car indestructible, do your braking for you, etc. For the more hardcore, 
 there is still some help in the customizability of controls, to change the linearity of steering 
 response, how much steering assistance you want (set it to 0% and it's virtually impossible to 
 catch a snap spin &iquest; Mine is at 15%) , and what the dead zones and sensitivities are for each 
 axis. Unfortunately, in their 1996 cave, Microprose failed to notice that most driving controls 
 are dual axis nowadays, so there is NO dual axis support in the game. If you want to left foot 
 brake, you'll be on the same axis as your gas, unless you have some kind of setup where you have 
 two game controllers plugged in, in which case you can use the second gameport to provide the other 
 axis and get independent braking and throttle. But most of us will have to switch it to single 
 axis and curse whoever was responsible for leaving out this support!
  
  Force feedback is supported, but I'm very disappointed in its use. It tends to oscillate the force, 
 and doesn't load up the spring rate during high G-cornering. It doesn't feel attached to the physics 
 model at all. I cut the FF level to 50% so that I could still enjoy going over curbs but not have 
 to fight with an out-of-phase oscillating spring exiting corners.
  
  I haven't talked about the audio, yet. The engine sounds are just fine, but you cannot hear anyone 
 else's engines around, in a departure from reality. Quite frankly, I'm not THAT bothered by it, 
 but I admit that from time to time I would like to know someone is moving up on my left or right 
 even before checking my mirror and seeing him. Also hearing their noise fade away would sure be 
 useful if I didn't know whether they were gone or just in my blind spot right alongside me! There 
 are no crew chiefs or TV announcers here. You're responsible to watch your dash and know when to 
 pit and what to ask for. The pitting is done pseudo-automatically, with your planned stops being 
 executed by your guys.
  
  Unfortunately, I'll be playing this game alone. Network support is designed for LAN play, not Internet 
 play. People can work around it, but my experience is that when it's designed for an effectively 
 no-latency connection, the game bombs on the 'net.
  
  So now let's just nitpicking about each section and look at the game as a complete piece? To find 
 out whether we really had the best F1 on our hands, I did races in each of the three main contenders: 
 F1 World Grand Prix, EA's F1 2000 and Grand Prix 3. My conclusion is that Grand Prix is the best 
 overall package right now, at least for single player mode, in spite of its shortcomings. The biggest 
 downfall of the other two products was the AI car behavior. I never felt like I was in a close 
 race with other competitors. They would either run by me or run into me. EA's title was the worst 
 in this department, although there is a patch and tweaks on the Internet to improve this. F1 WGP 
 has a bad braking model and AI that doesn't really dice well with you, and we are still awaiting 
 the patch. The car handling was the nicest in EA's sim, but that doesn't save the game if the AI 
 was bad. The track graphics and car models in F1 WGP were hands down the most awesome I've seen, 
 but again, if you can't race well with the AI, it's all for naught.
  
  GP3, in spite of its deficiencies, gave me the most enjoyable overall racing experience. In a 17 
 lap race at Monza, I took the pole by a second or so at Monza, but then didn't get a good start. 
 (I should note here that the 2D aspects of the graphics engine keep the frame rate high even with 
 21 other cars around me!) Then, trying to be aggressive to get back a position, fell well back 
 to 16th place. With only 12 laps left, I didn't have a shot at the win, so I just patiently worked 
 my way back through the field. What was interesting was that I'd opted for a setup with slightly 
 more wings than my competitors. This made me faster than they were through the chicanes and the 
 corners, but it meant they could draw away down the straights. I spent several laps doing the same 
 lap time as the guy ahead of me, constantly getting off the corner, drafting and then getting alongside 
 of him, only to have him hold his own right along side me and force me to back out to avoid crashing 
 going into the next corner. But in the famous Parabolica turn I could get guys every time as they 
 couldn't put down the power in this high-G increasing radius turn and I could turn inside of them 
 and motor away. Using this strategy I moved up to 9th before the end of the race. The lap saver 
 had every lap (save the first!) and I was able to store them on disk for later viewing and telemetry 
 analysis. The race was very enjoyable and mirrors the experience I have every time I play this 
 game.
  
  The sum is greater than the parts. Though most every area of GP3 has something to gripe about, 
 the whole game is still suitable for everyone from novices to aces, and no one area is so weak 
 as to ruin the whole of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hynnin
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 28, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  In general, most of the F1 games are full of small mechanical details, how to adjust your wings, 
 tires, strategy and the likes of it, but Grand Prix 3 reaches its maximum, it offers a great variety 
 of options to create a unique car for the player, it feels good knowing that if you adjust your 
 car differently, whatever you adjust, you can change the performance of the car in the tracks
 
  
  The sound its good, not that you must have a great sound in F1 games, but its necessary some realistic 
 engine, breaks and gear sound, to immerse the player on the character.
  
  Overall the game is one of the best in series for the genre, but you cant expect much of a F1 game, 
 it doesnt change significantly if you play it more than two times. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
