-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Grand Theft Auto 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/grandtheftauto2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 27, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.8
Critic Score: 7.3, 11 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 2,048 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Rockstar Games
Developer: DMA Design
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Sep 30, 1999
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
While all the fun of going on a crime spree is intact, so are most of the previous game's flaws. 
 

 Everyone's favorite carjacking simulation is back to remind you why you should lock your doors in 
 traffic. Grand Theft Auto 2 delivers in all the same areas as its predecessors, while fixing a 
 couple of the annoying little problems and adding a touch of depth in the process. But Grand Theft 
 Auto 2 is largely the same as the original top-down driving action game and its mission pack, London 
 1969. So while all the fun of going on a crime spree is intact, so are most of the previous games' 
 flaws.  

 There's a bit of story to go along with Grand Theft Auto 2, but it really makes no difference: As 
 a budding young criminal, you are striving to make a name for yourself in a near-future world filled 
 with drugs, guns, and turf wars. Each of the game's three levels is populated by three different 
 gangs, each of which runs a section of the city. The gangs are roughly identical - only different 
 colors and different gang vehicles separate them. Each gang has a set of pay phones, which you 
 can answer to take on odd jobs, as in the first game.   

 The catch is that a gang will only assign work to you if it respects you, so you have to earn that 
 respect by driving over to a rival gang's turf and shooting up as many of their members as you 
 can. Once you've smoked enough gangbangers (a set of meters lets you know where you stand with 
 all three of the city's gangs) , you can start taking jobs - just don't expect to be able to head 
 back into rival gangland without having a few shots fired your way. Thankfully, you've got a health 
 meter this time around, so you can withstand some damage before going down.  

 The mission design is similar to the original game. You'll be making deliveries, picking up bank 
 robbers, blowing up buildings with car bombs, and other unsavory tasks. Since each gang has a different 
 set of missions, you'll have to eventually ally yourself with all of the gangs if you want to try 
 all the missions. And since you need an enormous number of points to finish a level, you'll have 
 to at least attempt most if not all of a level's missions to succeed.  

 The difficulty of the missions can be a little frustrating, but the game isn't all about missions. 
 There's plenty of fun to be had by just kickin' it freestyle out in the streets, stealing cars 
 at random, shooting up crowds of innocent bystanders, and duking it out with the police. The cops 
 are a bit smarter than they used to be, and they've got a larger arsenal, too. It's tougher to 
 lose the pigs than it was before, and they'll do everything they can to cut you off on the road 
 and get you off the streets. Even if you manage to kill a few cops and keep running, a SWAT van 
 full of armored troops will be dispatched to handle the situation. Later levels have even more 
 drastic types of armed response, ranging from feds to tanks.  

 To combat the boys in blue, you'll have to find weapons, which are conveniently scattered throughout 
 the city. Conventional weaponry includes a pistol, dual pistols (that inexplicably require different 
 ammo than your standard pistol) , a silenced machine gun, an unsilenced machine gun (again, different 
 ammo for each) , and a shotgun. You can also score heavier items, like grenades, rocket launchers, 
 flamethrowers, Molotov cocktails, and a taser-type gun that lets you zap people from quite a distance. 
 In addition, you can mount things like machine guns, mines, car bombs, and oil slicks on most of 
 the game's vehicles, but since you actually have to pay for car upgrades, and cars get destroyed 
 so easily, most of the upgrades aren't really cost-effective.  

 The game's graphics have been overhauled, most notably in that Grand Theft Auto 2 uses a great deal 
 of colored lighting, which makes the police cars look good. The camera isn't quite as jerky as 
 it used to be either. Though most of the graphics are smooth, there are a few really obvious problems. 
 The worst of these is when pedestrians fly up toward the screen after being hit with a heavy weapon. 
 The little guys look absolutely horrible up close. Also, the near-future car design may disappoint 
 people who preferred stealing the more contemporary cars of the original.  

 The soundtrack follows the same format of other Grand Theft Auto games, and delivers a good mix 
 of techno music and radio chatter. With the exception of the yapping noise that accompanies mission 
 briefings, the sound effects are quite nice and also make fairly good use of 3D audio.  

 The game lets up to six players compete on multiplayer-specific maps. You can play tag or play to 
 a certain number of kills or points. You can also play with or without cops on the multiplayer 
 maps. It would have been nice to see some innovation in the modes, like maybe a cops-and-robbers 
 mode or even a capture-the-flag mode. Unfortunately, the network code apparently isn't very good 
 anyway, because play is usually sluggish even over a LAN.  

 Whether or not you'll enjoy Grand Theft Auto 2 depends on a couple factors. If you're easily offended 
 by the concept of running around and committing wanton acts of destruction with a few simple button 
 presses, this game isn't for you. If the first game's control scheme baffled you, there's no solace 
 to be found here either. Though the game manages to be quite a bit of fun, it occasionally still 
 feels like a glorified mission pack.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (26 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: spluke963
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto is probably the greatest game series to date, and this classic is really what 
 started the series off since Grand Theft Auto 1 wasen't really a great game.
  
  First off, the graphics have improved TONS from the first game. Sure they aren't GTA4 graphics, 
 but this was made in 1999. 
  
  On this title in the series you are still limited to the outdoors. This however, was changed in 
 Grand theft auto: Vice city.
  
  The weapon choice ranges from a pistol, to a machine gun, to a flamethrower and to top it all off... 
 *drumroll* A TAZER!
  
  The missions you recieve are from 3 gangs, in war. When 
  you
  complete a mission for one gang, the other two get annoyed and your respect with them decreases. 
 At the end of the game, all three gangs want you dead.
  
  One thing why I am marking this game down is because once you complete the game, all you get is 
 a "GAME COMPLETE!" sign and no bonus for when you play again.
  
  Another thing why I am marking the game down is that once you complete the missions and side missions 
 (Kill Frenzy) ,
  all there
  is to do is blow up the city and escape the army.
  
  
  Overall, if you want a awesome time, go download this from Rockstar's website!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 8, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 2 is the second game in the series. It brings many improvements over the first 
 game. Even-though it's basically the same thing. Doing missions or just wondering around driving 
 ,shooting people or blowing up stuff, it does have better graphics which make the game enjoyable. The 
 city is much more bigger and the AI has been improved. The possibility to use the bus to transport 
 people or to drive the train are for the first time there. It is still an open-ended game and you 
 can still drive all over the town and you can still hijack cars and kill people which was one of 
 the most important things about it's predecessor. Overall the game is a solid game and features 
 many improvements made in every aspect. I think it's worth a buy ,it is very cheap because of it's 
 age but it's a must have for the Grand Theft Auto hardcore fans.
  
  My Score 7.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrick00746
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  Music: Radio music and character voices are all right
  
  Graphics: 2D graphics, you're playing and top view
  
  Game Play: Grand Theft Auto 2 respect 
 is everything, you can choose from the tree gang that fighting each other to have a name or to 
 gain a rank on the city. and the begging of the game you will find yourself near on a church ( 
 save point ) and also as like many game there have some basic tutorial mission first, you can access 
 your mission trough phone ( gang color phone ) . You can work for any gang that you like but be 
 sure that you already got their respect before they accept your service. You can save your game 
 by going to the church ( did I mention before that the church is your save point ) but any way 
 before the church accept your save or successfully save your game they will want some donations 
 first for your salvation the donation will cost to you 50.000.00, meaning to say 50.000.00 per 
 savewow it cost a lot of money ", money matter here and Grand Theft Auto 2 but money doesn't 
 not a problem here cause you can easily gain more money as much as you like, the secret for gaining 
 a lot of money is you need to finish each mission, ya right every mission you accomplish will generate 
 you a lot of money as a payback for you work from them. Also you can kill civilian or shoot the 
 car until they explode in trade for being a bad ass there you gain a little amount of money but 
 watch out for police, if you will get busted or wasted you will lost a little amount of money and 
 your weapon too. And also if you bumped or crushed to any car in the street you also gain a little 
 amount of money but be careful for the police mobile, also if you car jack someone car you will 
 also have some money from itTIP don't car jack the car that near on the police mobile, if you 
 do you have to run fast in lost the heat that cost to you ". Also you can re-paint your car for 
 four different category of re-paint the first one is the police heat level and the other tree re-paint 
 is for the gang heat indicated by each other gang symbol. You don't have a map here if you're trying 
 to consult the map where you are nowfind it for yourself
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:18 pm PT
Review:  The first Grand Theft Auto was pretty cut and dry: either do missions to advance through levels 
 or just drive around, shoot people, blow stuff up, run from cops or whatever. Not really much to 
 it and Grand Theft Auto 2 is at it's core, almost the same. Now that's not a bad thing, because 
 sometimes simple can just equal plain fun. Grand Theft Auto 2 looks better graphically in the sense 
 that the textures a more smooth than the original and the effects (explosions and stuff) look much 
 better. Also there's now a "gang relation" meter than monitors your standing with certain gangs. 
 Increase your standing with one gang will decrease your standing with another. This of course wasn't 
 in the original Grand Theft Auto and it helps change the game up a little bit, but as far as change... that's 
 pretty much it. You still have the free roam ability to just gun and run for fun, or you can take 
 missions and advance up like the original. All in all it's a fun game and if you liked the original 
 Grand Theft Auto then you'll enjoy this one was well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bedram793
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2008 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:7/10
  Better than the first one. Explosions are good. Textures are ok but when it gets close up it gets 
 way too pixely. Could have worked a lot more on this. In this one, it gets night and dawn, unlike 
 the first one. That's an improvement.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Just like the first one. You can drive around, walk around, shoot, etc. Gets too repetitive after 
 a while. 
  
  Lasting Appeal:7/10
  Single player is funner than the first one, rampages are pretty fun. Still, nothing much to do 
 after that.
  
  Overall:8/10
  It's fun, but it gets old. Stick to the other GTA games. It's fun, but it gets boring. The bird 
 eye view is kind of stupid and it's also stupid how you can just jump over cars and even fire trucks 
 and stuff. Could have been a whole lot better, but it wasn't. It was also a bit too similar to 
 the first one. Should have switched up some things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gregox
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  GTA II is a good game at the time it was released in 1999. Of course in 2007, now, the credentials 
 are bigger and thats why GTA IV is so expected and GTA III was so good, GTA: Vice city even better 
 and GTA: San Andreas maybe the best in the history of video games.
  
  GTA II is a very innovative game which is allowed to the player to steal cars, make some incredible 
 missions, shoot at some criminals, people, well we can do a lot of things. This things at the time 
 were a debut the players werent use to this options.
  In my opinion the only bad thing that isnt bad at all, well was usual to see at the time the "air 
 camera". In 1999 it was usual to see it but im reviewing the game now so im extracting everything 
 of the game.
  All the options I announced are very good and very well designed. The graphics are good, the sound 
 is kind of good but acceptable. The driving system is good for games of this genre and in 1999. 
 One thing that is really "kick-ass" is the variety of cars that GTA II has to offer like tanks, 
 cars, vans, etc...
  
  So i have nothing more to say i believe this is a good game and the successors are even better. 
 The score i gave was 7.5 that is a good score for a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithy92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 2:50 am PT
Review:  The big difference from the first GTA is that you're doing jobs for different gangs. The graphics 
 and gameplay also got powerful revamp.
  When you've completed this game once and learn all the fun tricks, you'll enjoy the game at high 
 levels. I'm simply gonna say download this game (because it's free from rockstar) and play it. 
 The only thing this game lacks a solid online -play, I learnt that from playing the extraordinary 
 fun network-multiplayer.
  
  A bad thing about this game is that it features only 8 different faces along with the monolog (one 
 for each gang and another for shopping/saving stuff) . Otherwise this game can be pretty fun. It's 
 a shame that this game causes so much frustration.
  It's not bad just so under-rated.
  
  /Smithy92 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bozanimal
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 10:04 am PT
Review:  If you played the original Grand Theft Auto, prepare to be surprised by the lack of surprises in 
 its sequel. Grand Theft Auto II (GTA II) looks and plays identical to its predecessor.
  
  In the original, you take phone calls from various gangs that control different boroughs of each 
 city. The calls assign the player a task of delivering a bomb, killing a particular individual, 
 or some other criminal act. Successfully completing an assignment earns the player points towards 
 graduating to the next city, as well as increasing your favor with the respective gang.
  
  The appeal of the Grand Theft Auto series is its lack of structure. Certainly the player can take 
 on a mission from the gangs, but it is not required. The player can just as easily ignore the phones 
 and rampage through the city, stealing and selling cars, murdering at will, and engaging in wanton 
 destruction of property.
  
  Doing so, however, will bring down the sudden and efficient wrath of the police. The law is significantly 
 more difficult to avoid in this sequel, bringing in federal enforcement and even tanks when it 
 becomes necessary to shut down the player.
  
  Of course, the player's arsenal has also been upgraded. In addition to the pistol, machine gun, 
 and rocket launcher or its predecessor, the avatar now has license to kill with silenced weapons 
 as well as a particularly satisfying flamethrower.
  
  Everything is still viewed from a top-down perspective, and the camera zooms in or out depending 
 on the player's movement speed, affording a more grandiose view of the city when rocketing through 
 the streets in a Lamborghini. The graphics have been improved, with better lighting and textures, 
 but the same cartooned top-down characters that are so simplistic as to be worthy of an 8-bit gaming 
 platform. The audio is a different story, with plenty of ambient effects to highlight GTA II's 
 mastery of its 3D Audio support.
  
  While a game sequel does not need to reinvent the wheel, one might expect GTA II to have had a 
 little something more than what is here. A few extra weapons, a lighting effect or two, and the 
 same types of missions make for a repetitive game play experience for veterans of Grand Theft Auto. 
 However, players looking for a quick visceral thrill will certainly find one here, and for all 
 intents and purposes it would be foolish to play the first game over the second with both available. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btiddy
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 30, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  Granted, this game came out a LOOOONG time ago. But the overlying flaw is the gameplay. In Vice 
 City, there are many many many places to find jobs to do for various gang lords in the city. In 
 GTA2, however, there's just six. And getting to them is a pain in the @$$. The guns are pretty 
 cool. My favorite is the electric one, because it can link up to a lot of people, thus gaining 
 you more money.
  
  That's another thing I just don't understand about this game. You get money for basically anything 
 you do in this game... Hell. I walked around for 45 minutes and just shot everyone. I got like a 
 million dollars. I just don't understand where the money comes from, then again... that's in real 
 life too. I guess i could recommend this game... It is fun if you have no other games to play... I'd 
 have to give it an Almost, Not Quite rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrozenGM
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 14, 2007 2:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is really good, it has pretty good graphics for the year it was released in, but graphics 
 isn't what this game is all about, this game is a classic that started the GTA series. It is plain 
 addictive and fun, everyone should try this game. GTA 2 isn't the best of the series but still 
 a really awesome game. This game defiantly deserve a rating over 8! The story line is solid in 
 this game it is really fun and is really interesting. This game varies difficulties at different 
 times of the game. There are also things as side mission which you can do if your bored of the 
 story line, or you can just walk around and go on rampages or collect things. So you can hardly 
 get bored in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Triple_H90
Rating: 7
Date: May 30, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  The obvious change since GTA1 is the upgraded graphics. Basically the whole game looks and plays 
 better. The graphics are the biggest upgrade, because the previous GTA games looked just... awful. 
 Still this is not a great game and you won't have a lot of fun with it, especially now. But if 
 you want to own the whole Grand Theft Auto collection, this game is worth getting. Plus it's free. 
 You can download this game for free at the Rockstar Games website. Here's a link: http://www. rockstargames. com/classics/
 
  
  GTA1 is also available for download. It's worth getting if you are a die-hard GTA fan, otherwise, 
 you will not have fun with it at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 8
Date: May 26, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  GTA2 is the follow up to the first free freeroaming ganger game ever made, its intense gameplay 
 and controversial look made it a smashhit!
  
  You play as a unknown guy suffering from amnesia, sent in a open world for you to explore, working 
 for clans, fighting against other clans and police-chasings, and also free-killing.
  
  Gameplay:
  The game is addictive, cause this was the first game that brought us quality killing, 
 you'll work for diffrent clans and earn respect for them by killing their enemy clan, other things 
 are police, you'll often come in touch escaping from them, if you commit more and more crimes you'll 
 get SWAT members, special forces or even the army behind you're ass.
  
  Graphics:
  Top-down view with 3D buildings, explosions look great and characters look normal, variety of cars, 
 graphics weren't a problem in this game.
  
  Story:
  You are probably Clause from GTAIII, but thats unknown, you are a silent protoganist who works 
 for diffrent clans, the mission is to get a million dollars to pay somebody and get to the next 
 level, there are also alot of bonus-stages, mostly involving you and driving, shooting lots of 
 people again.
  
  AI:
  Police chase you, set up roadblocks to stop you, in some cases you'll encounter the army on you 
 which is almost impossible since tanks will be everywhere, and hundreds of army dudes with SMG's 
 chasing you down.
  
  Music:
  People react on how you play, if you carry and gun and shoot people will run away and scream, if 
 you punch somebody you'll hear people cussing at you, if you drive recklessly you'll hear people 
 call you names, which makes it fun and hilarious at times.
  
  Is it a good freeroaming game:
  Yes, check this in the bargain bin, its a small download but 
 will hook you on for hours, I still play this game in multiplayer mode if I have about 15 minutes 
 over or something, its only about 5 bucks, get it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dom84ts
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 19, 2007 2:13 am PT
Review:  Only after 1 year later came out the continuation of GTA!
  Also this game is under appreciated and low valued!
  But You guys have seen when this game was 
 released??? 1999!!!!
  Was great that period to play it! Maybe it has some bugs (only few) but the games of this years 
 doesn't have anyone???
  In this game was POSSIBLE to do mission but the funniest thing was to go around the city and make 
 disasters, incidents, murderers and all your mind say to you!
  Great the idea that while driving a car is possible to listen to the radio station!! :)
  This 
 have been the last of this kind of games (of GTA series) of that generation. After this one came 
 out GTA: 3!! Beautiful but different!
  
  ----&gt; next review on GTA:3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arss6600
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2007 5:01 am PT
Review:  This game have many successful tactics as it stood no.1 game at one time it is one of the best 
 game if u want to earn the respect of the gangs of the city of gangsters try this this is basic
 
  
  (i) Loonies: kill the yakuzas. better way to do is the place where the yakuza's
  instructing phone is placed so that u can gain the loonies respect if u lose it
  
  (ii) Zaibatsu: 
 kill the loonies in the loonie's park. do this after finishing all the 7 job of the loonies that 
 helps you
  
  (iii) Yakuza: ultimately, kill the zaibatsu to gain this big gang's respect. the best place to do 
 so is the place surrounding the zaibatsu phone in the island
  
  Note:
  first work for the loonies
  then to zaibatsu
  atlast to the Yakuza's
  this helps the basic 
 learners 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreggD
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 19, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  Alright, let me start by saying that Grand Theft Auto games are normally best played from a 3-D 
 perspective. However, GTA2 is indeed the exception to the rule. Set in an all-too-real near future, 
 GTA2 has all the stuff you love about the series, including some that never returned (but desperately 
 need to) . The game mechanics are fairly simple: jack cars, shoot people, earn respect for doing 
 missions and killing rival gang members. But here's where it gets interesting: the respect you 
 earn can go to any of the three gangs populating the level you're in. So, for example, if you kill 
 some Zaibatsu in the first level, you will gain respect from the Yakuza. So you are, in essence, 
 a mercenary. Sounds sweet, right? Well it is. As for weaponry, this game delivers. From the standard 
 pistol, to the always fun rocket launcher, and even a lightning gun (which is basically a tazer 
 on steroids) , the weapons are nothing short of terrific. Why, even the rocket launcher has a unique 
 after-effect in this version: when a ped, gang member, cop, or even you get hit by a rocket, the 
 effect is that character gets sent flying into the air, so high that they can land on top of a 
 building!
  
  Unique to the PC version of GTA2 is, of course, enhanced graphics. You can choose for the game 
 to be set at noon or dusk, each having it's own specific lighting and shadow effects. Though, in 
 my opinion, dusk fits the game better. In addition, the objects have a finer polish than their 
 PSone counterparts.
  
  Another advantage that the PC version has is faster load-times. Less than 10 seconds, last time 
 I checked.
  
  One thing I can't forget to mention is the random line of Elvis impersonators, when if run over 
 by a vehicle in quick succession, treat you to a great (if not the greatest) reference to pop-culture 
 in a video game: ELVIS HAS LEFT THE BUILDING! And anyone who has played these games since the original 
 know of this as a continuation of the tradition GOURANGA! One is left to wonder where this easter 
 egg was lost by the folks at Rockstar.
  
  All in all, GTA2 is a nostalgia trip that anyone with an interest in the Grand Theft Auto series, 
 and a PC that was at least medium-grade since 1998 should definitely get before it disappears off 
 the face of the Earth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Litis
Rating: 4.7
Date: Sep 18, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto probably wasn't an instant favorite amongst a lot of people, whether it was because 
 of its bad sound quality, pixelated graphics, DOS engine, or just because it didn't run well. Grand 
 Theft Auto 2 has filled the gap from modern games, though not completely.
  One improved aspect of it are the graphics. No more limited color palette (this of course depends 
 on your video card, but I'm sure it doesn't look as bad as the first did in any way) , more smooth 
 scrolling, and an automatically increased resolution which subtracts from the pixelation rate. 
 What's improved as well is the sound quality. There are real sound effects and a bit of dialogue 
 between the pedestrians walking down the streets and the player. There are also random radio stations 
 (each lasts about 24 minutes, my evidence from digging this up from the game files. Please don't 
 tell Rockstar North) you can enjoy hearing while committing random and organized crimes in a vehicle.
 
  On the other hand, the gameplay haven't moved too far from its arcade-style gameplay and go-this-do-that 
 missions. Whoever doesn't like arcade games, will certainly dislike this one. There's also a lack 
 of storyline, something Grand Theft Auto 2 could compromise on in comparison to its predecessor 
 (and something that will be greatly compromised in Grand Theft Auto 3 and further) .
  And today's lesson is: Grand Theft Auto 2 could be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niftymatt490
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 16, 2006 8:08 am PT
Review:  Gamespot's review of GTA 2 is a disappointing one for me. GTA 2 is one of the best games in the 
 series, as it is a close call between this one in GTA 3. This game is free now, and you can download 
 it off the Rockstar website. It is easy to pick up and play. The bird's eye view makes for an interesting 
 game, and this is already considered a Rockstar Classic. You haven't played GTA until you have 
 played this game. Although the original GTA is the worst in its series, IMO, this one is a huge 
 advancement from the original. Graphics are pretty good in this game, much better than the original 
 ones, you can actually tell what is going on. Sound effects are great, the music sucks. Turn off 
 the music with the GTA 2 Manager. The gameplay is pickup and play, very easy. With the gameplay 
 it is very easy to jack and car and initiate a police chase in the matter of seconds. If you haven't 
 tried this game out, you are missing out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxgangsta
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 22, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  First i started this game i didnt exept enything special but i realy started to like it becaume 
 very good game , but i didnt play it much because it gets a little borring in same time but you 
 can play it just for fun ,well in this game i dindt exept anything brilliant but i realy liked 
 it gameplay its good , but money comes like hell to you , if you find a tank you instantly can 
 gett that 
  1 000 000 $... Well one thing is hard to find your save place ,but you can find a tv van and follow 
 antena it will lead to your safe place ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilhamster
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 18, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  This was possibly the first game I really got into, and for good reason...
  
  The main selling point of this game is the enormous amount of fun you'll get from it. There's nothing 
 more entertaining than the sadistic pleasure you get by chasing down a line of Elvis impersonators 
 with a flame thrower. Or rigging a car with a car bomb and parking it in the most dense traffic 
 jam you can find, and then watching the explosions spread along the line of cars. Or of course 
 finding the fastest car possible, say a beamer, and deciding that you're not going to drive on 
 the road for a while, but are going to go pedestrian hunting. Oh the noises they make when you 
 hit them square on with your beamer
  
  And that is of course the other brilliant part of this game, the sound
  
  As mentioned in Gamespot's 
 review, the radio stations are great, with very good music, but even better than the music are 
 the adverts, which are absolutely hilarious!
  
  But the rest of the in-game sounds are even better, and frequently very funny. Such as overhearing 
 "see, I told you he was alive" when near the aforementioned Elvis impersonators, and of course 
 the classic "Elvis has left, the building!" which comes up whenever you get a 'strike' of running 
 over the whole line of them, classic. And of course the screams of the pedestrians as you mow them 
 down under the grill of your Stretch Limo, that's the sound I think when I think of this game, 
 sadistically brilliant.
  
  The rest of the sound doesn't disappoint as well, the police sirens wail is perfect for those high 
 speed chases, and the ringing telephones. Sounds of traffic and electrical buzzes all create a 
 very believable city atmosphere.
  
  Of course GTA2 has areas which some would say are not brilliant, such as the graphics of the game, 
 but I would disagree, to a point. Of course a fully 3D game would have been fantastic, but I feel 
 that the top-down, 2D style is just right for this game. It gives the game an arcade-like feel, 
 which I think adds to the fun factor of the game greatly. It gave the game an old school, arcade 
 feel, which I felt was perfect for it, and I wouldn't have had it any other way.
  
  A part of the graphics which I felt worked very well was the use of colour, the shine of the lights 
 on the city streets; or the seedy, run down green of the Russian mafia territory worked well, and 
 as with the sound, added to the atmosphere of the game greatly.
  
  I picked this game up as one of my first buys, even then it was about 5 ($10) , and I got hours 
 upon hours of fun out of it, I still occasionally play it today. So check your bargain bin for 
 GTA2, it's definitely worth it.
  
  Great, great value, and great, great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightwarrior179
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 13, 2006 5:17 am PT
Review:  Well, I found this game disappointing mainly because after playing two absolute masterpieces (GTA 
 3 and GTA Vice City) when I tried this thing out I found it real waste. Maybe playing the better 
 versions had a disadvantage. But anyways, the gameplay is satisfactory as we yet again are an unknown 
 criminal guy.
  
  The graphics have improved a tad bit from the original Grand Theft Auto 1. But when you compare 
 the extensive universe of Liberty City the city in GTA 2 (UNKNOWN TOO!!!) has a huge difference.
 
  
  The only thing I liked about GTA 2 was it's excellent soundtrack which I think is even better than 
 Vice City.
  
  However if you already own GTA 3 and Vice City don't let GTA 2 decieve you and put your money into 
 waste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GCrocksPS
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 26, 2006 7:45 am PT
Review:  GTA 2 is a bit of a let down really. The first was fantastic, and having played nearly all of the 
 GTA series, on PC or my mate's PS, I've realised that this one is the worst.
  It can repeat itself over and over, and although the car chases can be great fun, it's just not 
 the spark of innovation that GTA was.
  We've seen it before, the guns, the cars, the gore, and it still packs together to make a good 
 game, but truth be told, it's the worst one of all of them.
  I still like this game though, so i won't score it that bad, but it's not really worth buying it. 
 Borrow it first or get it cheap somewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingDisgrace
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Old-school fun are the three words I use to describe GTA 2. Even though GS and the rest of the 
 world may have rated GTA 2, they'll admit that they had some fun doing it. It doesn't last, it 
 isn't immersive, but it's wicked fun just to be thrown out of the cop car and raise mayhem. Kill 
 Frenzies were the heart of this game, and rightly so. What else were you going to do? Play the 
 missions? *insert 5-minute long laugh here* You just wanted money, you wanted to kill people while 
 getting money, get busted when the heat got too hot, and start over again. Even then, it was nothing 
 graphically marveling, and it wasn't the best sounding game either. GTA2 is a classic that you 
 pull out when you're bored and when you want a laugh out of rolling over SWAT vans in a tank. That's 
 all you do, yuou jack cars, shoot people, and even though you will gorw bored of it, it's great 
 to pull out in the middle of a Programming class. Especially when half the class has installed 
 it. And laugh when you get the Kill Frenzy. Flaws aside, GTA2 was just pure fun made before your 
 mom knew that video games had guns in them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kq167
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 4, 2006 9:46 am PT
Review:  This game impressed more than anything. I thought thsi game would only give me, maybe a half an 
 hour of good fun and kicks. But to my surprise to was really fun taking cars, killing cops, and 
 blowing up random stuff. But I understand most people who rated this game. It has bad graphics 
 and the campaign is really bad. But those people need to get over the 2D graphics and start blowin 
 crap up.
  
  But this game wasnt as good as I first got it because you needed to beat missions to get guns. 
 Which was not fun at all!! So I has to get on the internet and pull up all the good cheats, like 
 the tank or rocket launcher and then this game gets really fun.
  
  But other than that, most of the rest of the game is just a waste of time to me! But I give Rockstar 
 credit, they made games we love from GTA2.
  
  Thank you Rockstar! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedler1234
Rating: 5.4
Date: Sep 7, 2005 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Grand theft auto. it has gone so far from this game, this is probably the worst one apart from 
 the first and maybe also because all the others are so much better. this game is just so boring.
 
  
  You pick a character and start the story, liten to a phone conversation, meet people in alleyways 
 and do missions. the missions consist of killing people and well. thats most of it. you get many 
 weapons that dont work very well but its ok, there are many and the aiming is trash.
  
  The birds eye view works ok here but it still looks so bad.
  
  There is no replay value in 
 this game, finish this game once and i dont think you want to play this again. if you want a cheap 
 grand theft auto game, get the third one forget this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mutus
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 10, 2005 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Grand theft auto has always been a good game, everyone of there games has been open and addictive 
 with lots of style so needless to say, this is given a thumbs up, the radio stations are funny, 
 and the cops are apropretly profain, giving you the feel of a broken, run down, corrupt city. As 
 for flaws the graphics are a little pixely, but in 1999, I'm sure they were Doom 3 class. And a 
 MAP would have been helpful to find stores, and speaking of stores, GTA 2 could have more of those 
 to, maybe one were you could buy weapons, the sound is a little weak but anyway, GTA 2 is a very 
 good game, and deserves to be played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDWilliams05
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2005 12:59 pm PT
Review:  This was the best for the longest on the PC. It was hard, it was fun, it was carnage, it even had 
 a humorous radio stations to listen to. I know everyone wants an "hizzuzi" after play GTA2 for 
 even the shortest amount of time. But anyway let's get down to business.
  
  Gameplay: Its not much different than that of the first one. You take jobs from telephones, kill 
 gangsters, and that changes how each of the gangs feel about you. The one thing that I thought 
 was a little too sensative was the aspect. You couldn't tell the difference in anger towards you 
 if it was one bar or 5 bars. The second you got a -1 rating towards a gang, they hunted you down. 
 However, to have your allied gang (s) fight and help you, the + symbol had to be flashing. 
  
  Graphics: Again not much different than the 1st one. The sprites were a little more polished, 
 and the cars a little more smoother, but nothing much different than the first, but just enough 
 to make it a nicer thing to look at since all you see are streets and rooftops.
  
  Sound: The sound was alright, it was slurred to me, but that gave the impression of a bussling 
 city with lots of things going on. The cars all sounded different, as well as the weapons. The 
 script that the sprites would say weren't too in depth, you would think every male sprite you punched 
 were a brother of the previous. The Radio is what really made this game. Its funny, catchy, and 
 brillliant.
  
  Value: With tons of missions, tons of destruction to cause, this game can easily be played for 
 months, and with it being 10 bucks to get both GTA1, GTA2 and GTA: London expansion you can't beat 
 this game with a stick.
  
  Reason for tilt: I tilted to 10 just for the simple reason, of the shear carnage you can inflict 
 in the game. The amount of space to explore, and the number of secret hideaways are just outrageous. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
