-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Grand Theft Auto: Mission Pack #1: London 1969
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/grandtheftautolondon1969/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 21, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.9
Critic Score: 7.6, 9 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 429 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Take-Two Interactive
Developer: Rockstar North
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     Mar 31, 1999 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
There isn't much new in Grand Theft Auto: London 1969, an expansion pack for DMA's cartoonish carjacking 
 game. 

 There isn't much new in Grand Theft Auto: London 1969, an expansion pack for DMA's cartoonish carjacking 
 game. The setting makes some surface differences possible: You drive on the left, the soundtrack 
 features music appropriate to the era (think Yardbirds and spy movie themes) , and police say "you're 
 nicked" instead of "you're busted." Other than that, the Grand Theft Auto formula remains intact: 
 Steal some cars and commit some crimes. Unfortunately, all of the gameplay problems remain as well. 
 And Grand Theft Auto had a lot of gameplay problems.  

 The original Grand Theft Auto raised some eyebrows upon its release because of its violent gameplay. 
 You take on the role of a petty crook who wants to earn the respect of more-powerful crime bosses. 
 To do so, you must run errands, which are usually broken up into several small tasks. These tasks 
 usually involve picking up henchmen, destroying vehicles, assassinating enemies, or often some 
 combination thereof. To complete your tasks, you must steal cars and drive like a madman all over 
 the map (and sidewalks, and pedestrians) , all the while avoiding (or disposing of) the police that 
 become an increasing nuisance as you rack up the crime tally.   

 Leave it to your own moral barometer to decide whether or not that sounds like a good time. If it 
 does, then you may just be able to overlook the game's faults. But the premise is the only element 
 that makes Grand Theft Auto anything more than a top-down racing game with poor control, frustrating 
 mission design, and mediocre graphics.  

 The control issue is the biggest problem with the game. First, the cars are touchy. Steering left 
 or right sends you careening in that direction. But this isn't the problem. What makes it difficult 
 is that almost everything in the game will stop you dead in your tracks. Brush against a wall? 
 Stop. Hit a street sign? Stop. OK, you can run over pedestrians and some environmental objects, 
 but the stop-and-go vehicle movement becomes irritating quickly. It becomes especially frustrating 
 when you're trying to follow the blotchy directional pointer to your next assignment with three 
 police cars on your tail. And why is it that when you're on foot, your body behaves like a tiny 
 auto? Trying to run from the police is no easy task when you have to make a three-point turn and 
 you aren't even in a car.  

 The control problems wouldn't be so frustrating if the missions didn't seem like they were designed 
 for an arcade game where the sole goal is to get you to keep pumping in quarters. There's no saving 
 except between maps, and each map can include a number of assignments and take a good deal of time 
 to complete.  

 Lastly, Grand Theft Auto just doesn't look or sound that good. There are a number of resolutions 
 to view the game in, but the fact that the view zooms in and out constantly makes it difficult 
 to see properly at any resolution. The highest camera angle in the game makes things bearable, 
 but even that has an annoying in-and-out shimmy when you get some good velocity going. There is 
 a 3D accelerated (3dfx only) mode, but it's only available if you run the DOS version of the game. 
 The music is great, and the radio effect - in which different songs are playing in different cars 
 - is really cool. But the Charlie-Brown-adult-on-helium chattering of your mission briefings gets 
 grating in a hurry.  

 Grand Theft Auto: London, 1969 does have some good things going for it. The go-anywhere, do-anything 
 nature is its biggest plus, and if the structured assignments don't appeal to you, you can take 
 any car joyriding and create a little crime spree of your own. There's a tangible sense of tension 
 as you're trying to get to a safe house with the police on your back, and the way the police try 
 to set up roadblocks is a nice touch. But Grand Theft Auto just has too many problems to make it 
 anything more than a premise in search of a better game. All you would-be thugs out there keep 
 your fingers crossed and hope the sequel addresses these problems.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Triple_H90
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 30, 2007 8:25 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto: London, 1969 is the same as Grand Theft Auto 1, only this came out a year after. 
 With no upgrades at all, this feels like a really cheap way to make money. The graphics haven't 
 changed and that makes them even more dated. At this point you only want to own this one IF you 
 liked GTA1 and want some more of the same. If you didn't like GTA1, there's no reason to get this 
 one. This game is not available for download for free on the Rockstar Games website, however GTA1 
 and GTA2 are. Here's a link: http://www. rockstargames. com/classics/
  
  I'm sure you'll enjoy this game a little if you respect the GTA franchise and you want to have 
 the whole, ultimate Grand Theft Auto collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thestrateger
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 9, 2006 5:55 am PT
Review:  if you think this version of gta it is bad game, you will understand why not...
  
  because it is has very poor graphics,
  and because it is has very very poor sound,,
  and because 
 it is has very bad Reviewer's Tilt,
  and because it is has very bad Gameplay,
  and because it is has very poor value from me.
  
  but we are need to look on the good side 
 of the game:
  it is very fun game,
  
  but.... i am still hate this game!
  but... i am like the game gta: vice city, and the game gta: san Andres,
  
  but... i am think 
 at the year 1999, the game was very popular and enjoyable...
  
  so now everyone including me learn why the game it is not so bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ikillforgames
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 29, 2006 12:12 pm PT
Review:  its still an ok game. they oculd have made some changes. like not just jaking cars or just killing 
 people. it would have been better if they would have done some thing better. cause the whole missions 
 are just bsed on killing people and just stealing cars. they could have atleast let u steal oa 
 boat or something. god this game sucks. boooo grandtheft auto london . its a peice of crap. and 
 it has nothing to do with the srory of grandtheft auto. im not sure but can u steal bikes in the 
 game. no you can you know why because it some piece of garbagegod. and whats with the graphics 
 horribe. and the music on the radio. soo horrible. and the gameplay. god y dont u just bury the 
 game in the middle of the dessert like they did with the e. t game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gugi_nayar
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 21, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto: London 1969 is an expansion to the first Grand Theft Auto game released by Rockstar 
 Games. But, besides cosmetic changes the game has nothing new to offer. The surroundings have changed 
 but the problems of Grand Theft Auto are still prevalent in the expansion. You are now placed in 
 London of the 60s. Many may be unfamiliar with the left-hand drive of the English, but since this 
 is a Grand Theft Auto game, theres hardly anything to worry about traffic. Besides the change 
 of surroundings theres nothing really new in the gameplay area. The level design is still the 
 same and so are the problems associated with it.
  
  The story is still the same. Youre still performing the same tasks as you did in the base game, 
 busting up the neighbourhood on your way. You start at the lowest rung of the mafia ladder and 
 must work your way up. You take tasks nearly the same way as in the base game and execute them 
 in the same way as well. Stealing cars is your primary duty and causing mayhem a result your general 
 objective.
  
  Cars in the game are of course different from the base game. Instead of the somewhat modern car 
 design of the base game, cars in this game have a more contemporary look. The left-hand drive is 
 not really a major problem and is easy to get the hang of. The problem lies in the handling. Cars 
 handled quite well in the base game but instead of fine tuning this area, the expansion has actually 
 worsened it. Pushing the left or right button makes the cars swing wildly in that direction instead 
 of a gradual turn. Crashing into things wasnt a major problem with Grand Theft Auto but it is 
 with the expansion. Crashing into anything instantly stops your car dead in its tracks. This gets 
 really frustrating as you need to start the car over and over again. Pursuit missions have actually 
 become a chore in this game and more than one try is often needed for such missions.
  
  Even controlling your character has become awkward. Your character will also change directions 
 abruptly. This really seems awkward when youre trying to outrun the law. Fuzzy camera angles only 
 worsen this situation and make control of your character even worse. It also makes missions a tad 
 bit difficult than before. You can still only save the game between maps. This was the main problem 
 with the base game and its sad to see that nothing has been done about it.
  
  Graphically, the game looks nearly the same as the base game. It does however have a contemporary 
 look to it, which is a nice touch. But, like the base game it still has characters a bit too small 
 for comfort and a bit difficult to really appreciate. The maps look as good as they did before 
 and it is great to notice the slight depth in the building design. The sound of this game has slightly 
 improved. The retro look is backed up with some retro sound as well. The city is still teeming 
 with life and it brings a slight freshness to the game. The city is never quiet and theres always 
 some trash talk, blaring sirens, and other city sounds to be heard. It is great to see that the 
 audio effects are somewhat timed and change according to the circumstances. There are also more 
 audio feeds this time round which add a sense of urgency to the game.
  
  Overall, the game is nothing special. It is really an add-on and has not addressed some of the 
 major problems of the base. It had even made some minor problems into major ones. There is nothing 
 very innovative or appealing about this game. Only the die-hard Grand Theft Auto fans will be able 
 to enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-PRIME90
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 25, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I use to download this game while I was at school and just play it to keep me busy. It was good 
 enough to do just that. I don't think I would have ever bought this game, but it was a good way 
 to waste time.
  
  It was alittle hard to play from the overhead view, but after I played for a while I got use to 
 it.
  
  When you make a car go, it takes a couple of seconds to get going, then it will go pretty fast. 
 But I found that annoying because I crashed so many times when that happened.
  
  Even getting chased by the cops doesn't bother me. In the modern Grand Theft Auto's the cops are 
 so real that I get overwhelmed when they are after me. In this game the cops look too arcade like, 
 you can actually see the bullet coming towards you, but the reaction time is too slow for you to 
 dodge the bullet.
  
  But the missions were also very easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stu_ponk
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 5, 2006 3:57 am PT
Review:  If you played and enjoyed the first installment, then you would enjoy this edition.
  
  The game still holds onto its primative graphics and 2D birds-eye view but keeps you, the gamer, 
 occupied with a simple plot and fun objectives.
  
  The game is simply a bit of fun. This time set in London, you not get the Cockney funny voices 
 making thier hilarious comments, much like the films of this ilk, ie Lock Stock. Or the Mini's 
 from Italian Job.
  
  The controls are simple on the keyboard and the different vehicles all have varying degrees of 
 steering capabilities. Reaching top speed in the sports cars (E-Type Jaguar) can become a gamble 
 whilst swerving through the traffic. 
  
  The game retains some fun aspects like mowing down the line of pedestrians and racking up points. 
 You still catch the attention of the police and have to evade them.
  
  Graphics, as said, are poor. Even the photo stills are crude.
  
  Sound - as said voice acting 
 is funny. However car sounds are a bit too toylike.
  
  Value etc - the game will help pass a few hours of the day but soon becomes repatative; with the 
 latter levels just becoming stupidly impossible.
  
  OVERALL THE IDEAS ARE GREAT. The execution average. However its still better than GTII. I cannot 
 believe this game came out in the late 1990's and not earlier, as I though it was more like a early 
 90's effort. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
