-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Grand Prix Legends
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/grandprixlegends/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 17, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.9
Critic Score: 8.4, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 197 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Papyrus
Genre: Formula One Racing
Date:     Oct 31, 1998 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Grand Prix Legends will reward you with arguably the most intense racing experience ever seen on 
 a personal computer. 

 How real is real enough - or, in the case of Grand Prix Legends, how real is too real?  

 Those 
 are questions some gamers will be asking themselves after wrestling to complete a single lap - 
 without spinning out or crashing, that is - on any of the eleven world-famous tracks featured in 
 Grand Prix Legends, Papyrus' newest racing sim that's being rightly hailed as the most realistic 
 simulation ever developed.  

 Grand Prix Legends is a nearly perfect re-creation of the 1967 Grand Prix season, with Watkins Glen, 
 Monza, Spa-Francorchamps, Rouen-les-Essarts, Mosport, Silverstone, Kyalami, Zandvoort, Mexico City, 
 Monte Carlo, and the mighty Nurburgring modeled in the sim; only Le Mans is missing, and only two 
 teams (Cooper and Honda) are missing from that year.  

 In addition to five historically accurate cars - the Lotus-Ford 49, the Repco-Brabham BT24, the 
 Eagle-Weslake T1G, the Ferrari 312, and the BRM H-16 - Papyrus has also included two fantasy cars, 
 the Murasama and the Coventry (obviously meant to take the places of Honda and Cooper, respectively) . 
 And of course there are the drivers: Gurney, Clark, Hill, McLaren, and many others who literally 
 put their lives on the line in pursuit of victory and to slake their thirst for raw power and speed. 

 It might sound like a tired cliche, but each of these cars really does have its own distinct characteristics, 
 and if you don't believe me, then try driving the Murasama after you've gotten used to the Lotus 
 or the Ferrari. They all, however, share a common trait: They're incredibly hard to drive. That 
 shouldn't come as any big surprise; put a novice in a lightweight car with a 400-plus horsepower 
 engine and no type of aerodynamic additions like spoilers or wings to provide down force, and it's 
 only natural he'll find himself flipping, spinning, rolling, and generally doing everything except 
 staying upright and heading around the track. Even after heading to the pits over and over again 
 to tweak the almost innumerable settings for suspension, fuel, tires, and so on, you're likely 
 to still find it hard to handle these beasts - at least if you want to keep up with the rest of 
 the pack.  

 It's not as though Papyrus tried to pull the wool over anyone's eyes regarding the game's difficulty 
 level and steep learning curve. On the second page of the manual - not to be confused with the 
 nearly 100-page strategy guide bundled with the game, without which the learning curve might become 
 vertical - you'll find this statement: "You will spin and crash because everyone who tries the 
 simulation spins and crashes the first time out. And the second time out. And the third. People 
 who have raced real cars spin and crash in the simulator - mainly because they aren't feeling the 
 forces they are used to feeling while driving."  

 And it's that last little bit that leads me to my only serious complaint against an otherwise stunning 
 achievement: Why didn't Papyrus attempt to ease the learning curve with a few realism toggles? 
 These cars are incredibly difficult to drive when you are getting real-world feedback, and they 
 become absolute bears when you don't have any input except what you see on a computer monitor and 
 hear through some speakers.  

 How about a toggle for a traction meter that would give some idea of how close you are to spinning 
 out? Or an option to put a "governor" on the top speed of the computer-controlled drivers so you 
 could race with the physics model fully active and at least be competitive as you gradually mastered 
 the sim? It's true that there are driving aids for shifting, throttle, and braking, but these are 
 little more than crutches that slow you down more than teach you how to handle the toughest driving 
 sim ever created. Instead, it'd be far better to have an option to make the opponents a little 
 dumber and a little slower so you could first learn how to race and then work on speed. I know, 
 I know - you can get your chops down in the game's training mode. But that doesn't change the fact 
 that GPL might lure more people in if at least some of them could find a way to be competitive 
 from the green flag.  

 And I really want more people to get into this sim, because once it casts its spell on you - even 
 if that takes 10 or 15 hours - you're likely to be hooked for a long, long time to come. I know, 
 because I was just about to throw up my hands and walk away when I actually finished in the top 
 ten (in a field of 20) at Monza - and I felt so happy and proud that it was almost like an early 
 Christmas present. Yes, Monza's one of the easiest tracks, and I had the race length set to novice. 
 But that one little taste of success was enough to have me eager to climb back in the Lotus and 
 set my sights on even tougher challenges.  

 What makes GPL even more entrancing is the wonderful graphical flourishes - the bystanders, the 
 animated officials, accurate mirrors (mind blowing the first time you see them) , and drivers shifting 
 down and turning the wheel as they enter turns. The instant replay feature gets a near-perfect 
 score, as do the outstanding artificial intelligence routines developed for the drivers. Tracks 
 and background scenery are first-rate in 3D-accelerated mode (more on that later) , but you won't 
 fully appreciate how well they're done until you're able to sit back and watch the drama unfold 
 on replay.  

 About the only quibble I have with gameplay is the limited number of views: Like Papyrus' previous 
 IndyCar Racing and NASCAR Racing games, GPL has only two views (cockpit and chase) available during 
 the race, but about ten during the replay. I'm certainly not going to race from the nose view, 
 but I'd like to access the roll-bar view because it gives you greater viewing distance down the 
 track (another potential way of balancing the hyperrealistic physics model) . As it stands, the 
 only way to access anything besides the two standard views is to edit the PLAYER. INI file - and 
 if you hit F10 to access the chase view, then it wipes out the changes and sticks you back in the 
 cockpit.  

 A lot of racing fans have raved about the game's multiplayer action even over the Internet, but 
 Papyrus and Sierra have come up a little short of the mark by failing to provide even a rudimentary 
 chat area where GPL owners can meet and arrange matches. There are a couple of web sites that provide 
 such a feature, and of course you can always check out the #gpl channel on IRQ or head to Kali 
 to look for opponents. But just as with the game's learning curve, these are things we veterans 
 take for granted but which are likely to be off-putting for newbies or casual gamers.  

 Besides plenty of patience, you'll also need one other thing to fully enjoy GPL: a fairly high-end 
 system with a good control setup. Papyrus recommends a 266MHz with 64MB RAM and a 3D card using 
 either the 3dfx or Rendition chipset (strangely, there's no Direct3D support) , but I suspect that 
 you'll need a 300MHz to run at 800x600 in 16-bit color against a full field of opponents. As far 
 as controllers go, the Microsoft Force Feedback Wheel worked like a charm even though the game 
 doesn't have force-feedback support, but I also got nice results with a pedal/wheel combo as well. 

 Grand Prix Legends isn't for everyone, but that little adage is true of many of the finer things 
 in life. Provided you've got enough computing muscle to run it smoothly and the patience to stay 
 with it long past the first feelings of frustration, Grand Prix Legends will reward you with arguably 
 the most intense racing experience ever seen on a personal computer.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (4 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: noblepuker
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  I've played GPL since 1998 and never looked back (except in my mirrors) . Here we are 2008, a decade 
 after the game was released, and you can still find races and leagues. Not many games hold a fanbase 
 for that long (i can think of none) . The game is very hard and requires patience (and talent) to 
 master. The dificulty makes the game even better, and gives you great satisfaction when you win. Open 
 wheel race fan?... this games a must have.
  GPL was robbed of fame due to poor marketing & a steep learning curve... i think.
  Friend, if 
 you buy GPL, be sure to get a nice wheel/pedal setup. Install the patches, graphic, and sound mods 
 (the game is gorgeous with the new graphics) ! D3D and openGL are supported. I believe GPL still 
 uses VROC (was spyboy) for multiplayer, so get it. Good luck... you'll need it.
  
  When they find my corpse, it'll be clutching a copy of GRAND PRIX LEGENDS.
  Thanks for your time,
 
  carter: GPL pilot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tylenol
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  Think you are a good PC Racer? Then you better check your ego and try this game out. It's a 9yr 
 old game now, the graphics and sound are woefully outdated now but there are some websites and 
 groups to help keep this game alive.
  The game is extremely hard (steering wheel is a must) and unforgiving but it is the best for car 
 physics/behavior you will ever experience in a driving game. This game does not have the driving 
 aids of others so the learning curve is very steep but totally rewarding when you complete your 
 first lap without crashing.
  
  Play on a LAN against 8 other people to have the most fun with this game. Then watch the replays 
 after the race.
  
  I benchmark all racing games against the feel of this one, the handling and sense of speed is awesome.
 
  
  Most computers can still play this game today (10-2007) . I'm running windows XP with a NVidia 
 8800gts and with an installer utility found online I was up and running. There are plenty of user 
 created tracks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knut-am
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  first of all, the graphics that is in the original has been updated by many voluntairs all over 
 the world to look a lot better then it seem on the pics of the original game. though i would have 
 played it still even if it looked like it was when it first was released. the rest is just marvelous 
 the sound of that Ferari,, lol. that it is about the hardest game ever made to master is just how 
 it is. i will presume that most people that has played this game never realy mastered it at all 
 before they put it away for newer games to play. for those of us that just happend to stick to 
 it a wile longer and experienced the "high" of feeling a bit of controll over the cars and the 
 situations racing put you in i recon all have some rememberance of the share thrill of finally 
 acomplish something that at first seemed to be impossibly difficoult, a feeling of having done 
 somthing out of the ordinarry. from then on i guess we are all hooked. the rest is just pure plessure. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryprior
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 17, 2005 9:32 pm PT
Review:  The difference between then and now is most apparent in GPL's giorious roster of classic cars, 
 each recreated in painstaking detail: the Ferrari 312, the Lotus-ford 49, the BRM P115, the Brabham 
 BT24, the Gurney Eagle T1G. Their specifics translate wonderfully into Papyrus perennially brilliant 
 racing-physics engine. The bumps, skids, slides and engine roars are individualized for each car.
 
  GPL reminds you why you put that 3Dfx accelerator under the hood of your rig-its graphics are 
 way ahead of any other racing sim's. The visual effect from the driver's seat is gut-wrenching 
 as you speed through the straights, lean into gravity-defying turns, and trace the rising and dipping 
 contours in the road courses of actual Grand Prix 1967 circuits. And the skid marks burning rubber, 
 translucent smoke, and heart-stopping crash effects make for white-knuckled tension. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
