-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Grand Ages: Rome
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/imperiumromanumii/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Campaign missions based on historical families and events from Roman history.
 Adds online multiplayer support.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Formulaic city-building gameplay.
 Little more than a rerelease of last year's Imperium Romanum.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  6, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 7.6, 14 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 169 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Viva Media
Developer: Kalypso
Genre: Historic Real-Time...
Date:     Mar 17, 2009 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Grand Ages: Rome is yet another generic city-builder set in ancient Rome. 

  You would need to have the smarts of a Cicero to keep track of all the Roman city-building games 
 released in the last few years. Haemimont Games certainly isn't making this task any easier with 
 Grand Ages: Rome. This generic city-builder set during the waning days of the Roman Republic looks 
 and plays almost exactly like its ancestors; good luck telling the difference between the game 
 and kissing cousins such as Caesar IV, CivCity: Rome, and, more to the point, Haemimont's own Glory 
 of the Roman Empire and Imperium Romanum. Although there isn't anything outrageously wrong with 
 this rehash of an old formula, it would be hard to think of a game that needed to be released this 
 year less than this one.  

           The glories of Rome are becoming a little tarnished. You can build only so many forums 
 and raise so many legions before you get bored.      

  Actually, Grand Ages: Rome has pretty much already been released twice. Predecessors Glory of the 
 Roman Empire and Imperium Romanum, which arrived in stores in late 2006 and early 2008, respectively, 
 are so similar to this game that it would be a challenge for even their developers to tell the 
 trio apart. Grand Ages: Rome is really just a slightly reworked and patched-up Imperium Romanum 
 with a new moniker, new box, new multiplayer, and a full retail price tag. The primary mode of 
 play is still a solo campaign in which you manage the development of various cities across the 
 Roman Republic in the decades immediately after the abdication of the dictator Sulla. This is a 
 fascinating period of Roman history, given that it saw the rise of Julius Caesar and a nasty civil 
 war that led to the creation of the Empire, but the era is much less interesting in city-building 
 form these days because it has been beaten into the ground by game after game.  

  So the new boss is the same as the old boss, with a few notable changes. Most conspicuously, this 
 is a much more stable game than Imperium Romanum, which crashed continually on release last year. 
 Everything certainly looks a great deal better now, in large part due to an attractive new interface 
 that employs a radial dial to handle building commands and a greater use of color to make building 
 types more distinctive. But there remain some lingering problems. The radial dial automatically 
 closes after you make a single selection, which is annoying when you're trying to crank out a line 
 of apartment buildings to create a neighborhood in the early stages of developing a city. Visuals 
 also lose most of their fine details as soon as you pan back far enough to see your city from a 
 playable camera height, so it's hard to really care much about the improved graphics. And online 
 multiplayer has been added to the old feature set, including support for five different game types 
 that let you build cities both competitively and cooperatively. The only problem is that adding 
 multiplayer modes to a city-building game is a lot like answering a question that nobody asked. 
 City builders have traditionally been for solo play only, so the audience interested in online 
 play is likely pretty small. At any rate, it's almost impossible to find anyone in the online lobbies 
 looking for a match.  

  Aside from these marginal enhancements, Grand Ages: Rome is a carbon copy of a decade-old recipe 
 in which you play city planner in the first century B. C. To build a successful city, you serve 
 the basic needs of the low-end plebeians, which lays the groundwork to develop a strata of middle-class 
 equites, and then sets the stage for the hoity-toity patricians. Each step up the social ladder 
 has its own particular demands. Whereas the plebs are happy with basic water, bread, and sausages, 
 the equites need tavern entertainment and the patricians insist on olive oil and linen clothing. 
 However, it's fairly easy to meet these desires. As with Haemimont's earlier Roman city-builders, 
 economics runs on rails, so you don't have to micromanage supplies. All resources are automatically 
 gathered at their sources as soon as you build the appropriate buildings. For instance, to operate 
 a pig farm, all you need to do is erect hog heaven itself and a nearby insulae apartment building 
 for its pleb employees. To run a temple to Vesta, all that is required is the temple in question 
 and an adjacent block of equite flats. Once the buildings are in place, you are guaranteed supplies 
 until either a necessary resource runs out or something burns down (which happens so often that 
 even the fire-fighting prefecture buildings frequently go up in flames) .  

           As with most city-building games, combat is a shallow waste of time in which you hurl 
 one color of undulating blobs against another.      

  Needless to say, if you have ever played a city-building game before, you won't need to bother 
 with the tutorial here. There aren't any twists or turns, and the game's entire roster of buildings 
 is actually available in the very first mission. You can mess around with trading, and there is 
 a military angle to many missions, but these features are thinly developed. Trading is about as 
 involved as loading a shopping cart, and combat is a dumbed-down exercise in mashing together columns 
 of troops. The only variation to the familiar city-building formula is a role-playing angle wherein 
 you guide an actual Roman family through historical situations that took place after Sulla retired 
 in 79 B. C.  

  Campaigns begin with you choosing to lead one of the five most infamous dynasties of the late Republican 
 era, namely the Julii, Flavii, Aemilii, Lucii, and Valerii. Each comes with bonuses that play off 
 of historical themes such as the Julii's popularity with the mob and the Aemilii's military expertise. 
 You can even buff your family between missions by using talent points to buy special skills that 
 help with everything from establishing trade routes to cutting the cost of recruiting soldiers, 
 and your leftover denarii will let you purchase estates that will supply you with extra wood and 
 stone. But these historical touches and RPG-lite mechanics add little to how the game plays, aside 
 from opening things up a bit by following a post-Sulla timeline and giving you multiple mission 
 choices. These additions ultimately add just a flimsy wrapper to the formulaic gameplay, regardless 
 of whether you're using the Valerii research benefits while putting down the slave revolt of Spartacus, 
 or even getting involved in the civil war between the Triumvirs for control of Rome. It's hard 
 to get revved up about taking on Julius Caesar himself when all you're doing is building the same 
 old pig farms and stone mines.  

  After spending a few dozen hours with Grand Ages: Rome, it's hard to come up with many reasons 
 why this game needs to exist. It is very similar to a game released just a year ago, and it adds 
 very little to an overdone genre. Chances are good that fans of this sort of game already have 
 sitting on their hard drives at least a couple of perfectly good ways to build Rome in a day.  
    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: kadiablo
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 15, 2009 3:28 pm PT
Review:  At the beginning you'll have some trouble (it could become somewaht annoying) on maintaining the 
 city without fire: too much workers or too much work, no entertainment or lack of food. Praticians 
 leaving the city because of lack of cloths and olive oil, equites not satisfied because of poor 
 life quality. But, as you play, you'll find the balance to keep the whole city satisfied and the 
 micromanagement will turn easier. The battles are easy, there're practically no tactics or strategy, 
 that's the weakest part of the game from my point of view. But the city building and the campaign 
 are real fun and it's quite challenging until you master how the city works; and how the city works 
 makes sense. If you are a history lover, you also like good visuals and you are not specifically 
 looking for a strategy battles game, getting Grand Ages Rome is fun for sure. I had lots of it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Helloiseeu
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2009 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Grand Ages: Rome is one of the better Rome city building games out there. For those of you that 
 have no clue what you do in this game, I will explain. Like most other city building games out 
 there, your main goal is the please the residents of your city which you can do with food, entertainment, 
 etc. There is more to the game though. Unlike most other city building games, you right click to 
 get your building panel up and a whole circle of items followed by sub-items pops up. This system 
 works way more efficently than what most other city building games give you. Also you got military 
 units in this game. Military aspect of the game is actually very fun. There are a lot of units 
 to choose from and lots of different ways to get them. 
  
  The campaign is a very interesting aspect of the game. There are many missions out there, which 
 each mission lasts very long. This causes for extreme playablitity. The campaign throughs you as 
 a governor helping out many other Roman senators with their missions. Each of their characteristcs 
 are shown well in their voice and their actions. For example, some provide you with bonus money, 
 while others just complain to you. Many of the missions are very enjoyable. The campaign is very 
 interesting and I am quite shocked by it. However, theres free play missions also which are great.
 
  
  The game few flaws, one being the annoying amount of fires, plague outbreaks, and random destroying 
 of temples. Besides that the game is great with excellent music, soundtrack, graphics, gameplay, 
 and storyline. Its a shame that this game is such a hidden jem out there. 
  
  In the end, anyone with a interest in city building or strartegy should really buy this game or 
 try the demo.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FatPipe
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Despite the lack of semi-decent graphics, and despite the lack of intuitive controls, and even 
 despite the lack of a really poor storyline, I was still hoping for something to pass the time.... not 
 so much. Because whatever small hope there was for this game was shot out the window by really 
 really really bad economy system.
  
  Graphics - All the buildings looked the same, the ability to zoom in and out was minimal, and there 
 was little detail on the characters.
  
  Gameplay - 95% of my time was spent running around putting out fires, stopping riots, and figuring 
 out what to fix. Sure, if I wanted to sit back and map out my entire session each time I played, 
 then planned on paper how I wanted each area to be laid out, and then toss in the occasional chance 
 that I might "anger the gods" and get an earthquake, maybe I wouldn't have fires and riots... but 
 who the [insert your choice of expletive) wants to do that. 
  
  Overall - An absolute disaster of a game with zero value besides pure frustration. And don't write 
 me and say this or that about my review, because this game sucked, and in over 40+ reviews I havent 
 given this low of a score... ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irelevent
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 23, 2009 7:53 pm PT
Review:  I feel terrible right now, after just playing about 2 hours straight of Grand Ages: Rome. I honestly 
 want to kill the makers of this game.
  
  Ok we have to start somewhere, so how about the good stuff first:
  
  -Alot of different modes.
 
  
  -The game can get deep at times
  
  Thats about all i can think of, as far as positives go.
  
  So, let my rant begin:
  
  -Terrible 
 AI will attack a wall and they will all die (my enemies are terrible)
  
  -Most bonuses of your monuments only effect a small portion of your city.
  
  -Glitchy-as-hell 
 graphics make the game a living hell! Play fallout 3 on highest quality? you will allways experience 
 lag on any setting on this game.
  
  -The controls of this game are terrible. Have fun trying to look around non-existant corners because 
 when trying to change camera angles, you will want to kill yourself.
  
  - Do you like fire? Get ready to have every single one of your houses burnt down until you finally 
 get a fire department, which they name something else, completely random and in my opinion, is 
 placed in the wrong section of buildings.
  
  -Do you like re-inforcing stereotypes about the upper , middle , and lower class? Get ready for 
 Grand Ages: Rome! Where you will be treated to a game which makes sure that if you live in an apartment, 
 you must be a farmer, and if you live in a mansion, you must be a high priest! Talk about Grand 
 Ages!
  
  -Did i mention this game is just bad. There is a better-looking, etc. Black and White 2 is almost 
 5 years old now, and it's much, much better than this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xaminme
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2009 6:14 pm PT
Review:  I think that Grand Ages Rome is sweet. The story-line is good and pulls you into the game in a 
 really well done manner. I am into the military levels more than the city building. The best thing 
 about this game is how closely detailed it is in all aspects. In the cities, if you zoom in on 
 a street in your city, then the people are not all looking the same and change with their scenario. 
 In the military levels, I like how the enemy AI is intelligent and how strategy comes into play. 
 For example, if I have a massive army, then I would be able to attack head on and destroy anything 
 in my way, but if i am only supplied with and army of 2 squads i have to set up my army in a way 
 where i cannot only use brute force. The naval battles rock. Overall the graphics are superb. 
 
  I am not thrilled about the fires since they sometimes spread way too quickly. Also, how one building 
 can supply only one work place. I am still picking my way around the game and didn't get to try 
 out the multi-player part yet. But, it's probably a lot of fun. Although there are some small flaws, 
 I think this is by far the best Rome theme strategy game I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: derian_n_jade
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 8:01 am PT
Review:  Ive played most of the RTS games as well as city building games, id have to say this one is the 
 worst, while the graphical qualities are fairly candy-ish, the fact that leaving a building empty 
 more than a minute means you need to draw your city out every time you go somewhere new before 
 you build it, otherwise you're wasting your money. This was a major complaint with the demo and 
 they havent corrected it in the full version. 
  
  Some may consider my review harsh or hard, I've even seen people on the mb's and forums flame for 
 people talking in a negative way about this game, saying I cant find the instant win button. Sorry 
 folks your wrong, any game that is made where someone who actuly does plan out their city pays 
 for it, is sadly not up to par. As I said in the review deck, you may as well draw out the cities 
 before you build them otherwise it'l never go any where near to plan. They need to lower the amount 
 of fires and riots, especially in the beginning.
  
  Overall, Id give this a 5 out of 10, every point for graphical experience, 0 for actual play. My 
 only advice for the studio/publishing house, patch it and have more quality testing/playtesting 
 before you publish next time.
  
  EDIT:
  
  I am patching to the new version which came out very quickly after the release, this reminds me 
 too much of Scarface for the PC and the hugs mess that was. They published it and half the country 
 who met or beat the minimum specs and still couldn't play it. I'm willing to bet they published 
 knowing these problems would become issues but were trying to make deadline, this is usually because 
 of investors and or publishing house. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vasot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 6:29 am PT
Review:  [ NOTE: My review is based on the latest version of the game 1.10 which Haemimont has made several 
 improvements to game ]
  
  In short and to the point:
  
  GOOD:
  - Beautiful graphics
  - Big variety of missions
  - Simple gameplay ( neat right-click building 
 ) that will satisfy even gamers of small age
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  BAD
  - Naval 
 AI is flawed
  - Way easy to satisfy the hardcore fans of the genre
  - The military side of the game is still weak (despite the improvements over Imperium Romanum) .
 
  
  CONCLUSION
  Grand Ages Rome offers a lot of improvements from team Haemimont as the cities are now much more 
 fun to put together from Imperium Romanum and feel more natural with plebs, equites etc during 
 the ancient Roman days. Also it is nice to see that Haeminont has added some 4X Real-Time strategy 
 features in the title.
  Despite of the military side being much easier to handle now it still lacks a certain depth that 
 would have otherwise complimented an excellent city building title.
  
  ----NOTE: If your game looks kind of blurry just disable the postprocessing effects from the options 
 menu ----
  
  Final Score = 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicolelux
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 2:03 pm PT
Review:  I personly enjoy city building games. the economy part of the city is very easy and basic. Your 
 resources are easy to get you just got to put the right amount of building up. I like how you can 
 place the building close to one another and it make a auto road for you. the graphic are surpurb 
 wonderful job on that aspect. the warfare is pretty basic aswell more point and click and your 
 men do the job. it is fun taking over town always! they could of gone A little further with thier 
 people in the city. For example in CivCity rome you can click on the person find out their info 
 and where they work. with this game the people just kinda do thier own thing and u don't have much 
 control. i wish they went more in depth with the people of the town but we can have it all i guess. 
 so all said it done this game is alright but wait im not done there is a game called Imperial Romanum 
 and this game is sooo similar it is hard to find the diffrence between the two. i wish they come 
 up with something diffrent because these city building games are becoming very repeative. so i 
 suggest this game to someone that is new to city building but if you play these types of game regularly 
 don't but this game it will be a huge disappointment 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
