-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Grandia II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/grandia2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 13, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.3, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 472 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Game Arts
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Mar 10, 2002
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Consider this a good opportunity to try out a solid Japanese RPG, without having to own a console. 
 

 Japanese role-playing games have no place on the PC. That's not an argument -- that's an observation. 
 Several years ago, a couple of games from the popular Final Fantasy series were ported to the PC 
 platform. But these games just didn't take off on the PC anywhere near like they did on Sony's 
 old PlayStation system, which is probably why Square's presence vanished from PC gaming. So, with 
 the exception of a couple of console-style RPGs from last year -- Summoner and Anachronox -- there's 
 basically been no chance for dedicated PC gamers to play anything from Japan's unique take on the 
 role-playing genre. Good thing for Grandia II, a Japanese RPG that originated on Sega's now-defunct 
 Dreamcast. Ubi Soft published the game in this country not just for the Dreamcast, but also recently 
 for the PlayStation 2 and now for the PC. It's a direct translation from the original -- like most 
 console RPGs, it doesn't let you save just anywhere and it's very linear. Grandia II is also not 
 quite as serious of a game as most PC RPGs try to be. But if you can deal with the culture clash 
 and with the typical shortcomings of translations from consoles, then you're likely to find that 
 Grandia II can provide plenty of charm and plenty of fun.           Grandia II introduces plenty 
 of chatty, colorful characters.    

  Grandia II is obviously a sequel, though it has little to do with the original game. If you've 
 played other Japanese RPGs or seen some anime, then chances are you'll find that the game's setting, 
 plot, and cast of characters seem pretty typical. You play as Ryudo, a young but seasoned bounty 
 hunter who's always looking to sell his sword to the highest bidder. At first he comes across like 
 a bully. But as you might expect, over the course of the game, Ryudo shapes up into a more suitably 
 heroic form as he travels the land with Elena, a princess who becomes stricken with an unusual 
 curse. Elena is quiet and Ryudo is likable enough, especially when he banters with Skye, his talking 
 hawk friend. Though some of the game's dialogue is spoken, most of it is written out on the screen, 
 subtly pausing at times to give a sense of how the characters are probably inflecting. Some of 
 the dialogue is actually quite good -- you'll probably appreciate Ryudo's cynical interjections during 
 some otherwise generic conversations about the usual sorts of problems that always seem to plague 
 fantasy realms, like that of Grandia II.   

  Grandia II is a fully 3D game that uses a floating 3D camera angle, which is fixed at a rather 
 close-in, isometric vantage point. You can rotate the camera about the main character -- you constantly 
 have to, because scenery will often obstruct your view -- but you can't zoom out or tilt the camera 
 at all. There's an onscreen compass that helps you get your bearings in the game's somewhat bland 
 3D environments, but the tight view angle makes the places you'll explore in Grandia II seem rather 
 small, which undermines the sense that you're on some sort of epic journey. Each area in Grandia 
 II doesn't just seem small, but each actually is -- there isn't much room to explore before you find 
 the next point you're supposed to go to in this linear game. For what it's worth, if the scenes 
 were any bigger, you'd probably end up getting lost more often; as it is, you can concentrate on 
 forging ahead.           The combat is fun, dynamic, and tactical.    

  Grandia II's combat system is one of the best aspects of the game. You won't find the numbingly 
 repetitious random battles that can be found in most Japanese RPGs, because Grandia II does away 
 with random encounters completely, and the combat system itself is considerably more interesting 
 than usual -- it's very dynamic and looks and feels almost as much like a fighting game as an RPG. 
 You'll watch as your characters constantly move about the battlefield, getting into the best position 
 to attack their foes. The action occurs in real time and pauses only when one of your characters 
 is ready to act. At that point, characters have a variety of options -- they can perform an attack 
 combo on the selected foe or go for a critical hit that's faster than a combo but less damaging 
 overall. Characters can use different kinds of magic, as well as items and powerful special abilities. 
 They can dodge and defend too. Grandia II uses a system of initiative -- once you select an action 
 for your character, your character won't act right away. The same rules apply to your enemies, 
 so if you see one of them setting up a special move, you may have the opportunity to counterattack 
 for extra damage and cause the enemy to lose its turn for good measure. Whatever the case, battles 
 are smoothly animated and visually impressive as a result, even though the polygonal characters 
 look blocky.    

 Though combat in Grandia II is briskly paced and enjoyable, oftentimes it's entirely avoidable. 
 You'll generally see your foes skulking around each area, and they'll come running for you as you 
 approach. Sometimes you can sneak up on your foes from behind, in which case you'll get the first 
 attack during battle, but your enemies can do the same to you, so if they get you while your back 
 is turned, expect a beating. Grandia II isn't a particularly difficult game -- your characters are 
 strong and versatile, and they don't need to specialize. Ryudo can be both your best fighter and 
 your best healer. That's because character advancement in Grandia II incorporates an open-ended 
 system that lets you turn any and all of your characters into real powerhouses. While characters 
 gain experience points after every fight and gain levels when they've earned enough experience, 
 each battle also yields points that can be used to unlock new spells and special abilities and 
 to power these up. You have a pool for these points -- characters don't earn them independently as 
 they do with experience points -- so you can dump them all into one character or spread them around 
 as you prefer.           All your characters can learn powerful spells.    

  Grandia II may not look like much from a technical standpoint -- the low-detail 3D models and simple-looking 
 environments reveal the game's console origins -- but its visual design is well done. Expressive 
 animations and nicely drawn still portraits are used to give your characters a lot of personality, 
 and some of the game's scenery is actually quite beautiful. The whole game has a cohesive look 
 about it that helps you get immersed into the proceedings, so much so that soon enough, technical 
 issues such as the low-resolution textures and occasional slowdowns in the frame rate won't really 
 bother you. What can be a bit more distracting is the way the game makes use of full-motion video 
 effects, either for cutscenes or even right in the middle of battle -- unfortunately, the video looks 
 grainy and washed out compared with the rest of the graphics. Grandia II supports resolutions up 
 to 1024x768, so as a matter of fact, the PC version can look quite a bit better by direct comparison 
 with the Dreamcast and PlayStation 2 versions.   

  The audio in Grandia II might rub you the wrong way. In keeping with the game's not-too-serious 
 approach, the musical score is generally lighthearted but is not without some suitably darker or 
 more melodramatic themes. Chances are you'll feel strongly about the music in Grandia II one way 
 or another -- if nothing else, the music is quite loud and almost drowns out the other sound effects, 
 except for the extremely loud footsteps of your party. As for the voice acting, the performances 
 are about as overdone as the character designs themselves are. In the end, the voices fit the roles 
 well and help bring the characters to life. Ubi Soft got some recognizable talent for the parts -- several 
 of the main characters' voices may sound familiar either from other games or from cartoon shows 
 you've heard.           If you've enjoyed other console RPGs, you'll probably enjoy Grandia II. 
    

  In general, there's a good amount of variety in Grandia II. Besides fighting enemies and talking 
 to people in towns, you'll of course visit plenty of different types of places, from mountains 
 on down to dungeons. Sometimes you'll need to solve some basic puzzles to proceed through an area, 
 which aren't frustrating and make for a pleasant diversion. The game itself doesn't let you take 
 many detours from the main storyline, so while more-experienced RPG players might be disappointed 
 that they don't have much free rein, chances are you'll appreciate the way that the game is generally 
 clear about whatever it is you're supposed to do next. That, along with the fact that Grandia II's 
 areas are compact, keeps the game from bogging down. Though things move along quickly, Grandia 
 II isn't a short game, and it should take you a good 30 hours or so before you reach the conclusion. 
   

  The original Dreamcast version of Grandia II was released at the tail end of 2000. The PC port 
 is essentially the same exact game, and while it shows its age, the intactness of the translation 
 is ultimately a good thing. The PC doesn't have too many Japanese RPGs available for it, so by 
 default, Grandia II is one of the better ones. There's no guarantee that the game will appeal to 
 fans of conventional PC role-playing games -- Grandia II's linear gameplay, "young adult" sensibility, 
 and anime artwork aren't likely to impress someone looking for another Baldur's Gate II. Still, 
 Grandia II can be fun if you're used to Japanese RPGs to begin with or if you approach it with 
 an open mind. Its great combat system and its colorful cast of characters are enough to recommend 
 it to those who have been intrigued in the past by the Final Fantasy series or other Japanese RPGs. 
 If that's you, then consider this a good opportunity to try out a solid Japanese RPG, without having 
 to own a console.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: KinsmanFrederik
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  Yes, I know - I have mentioned it before, that I get easily addicted to good jRPG, but when I write 
 about them, I simply can't forget to repeat it once more. I like the style, the story is also usually 
 great and most of all I like when they are TURN - BASED.
  Turn - based combat system is almost the main prerequisite for me to like the game of this sub 
 - genre. When there is no time limit to think your next move and you can take a look at your opponent, 
 it is marvellous.
  I enjoyed the boss fights most of all. although they are not difficult, they usually consist of 
 more than one part. That means that each part has a move per one turn and can strike, heal, cast 
 a spell and so on. I think this is somehow borrowed from FFVIII (NORG and NORG pods, Orbs, etc.) . 
 That makes these fights more challenging.
  Weapons, armor, accessories, special attacks and spells are classical jRPG symbols. Spells are 
 divided into groups, depending on their element, for example, fire, nature, healing, lightning, 
 earth, ice and so on. Each spell can be upgraded by finding particular magic egg, that allows to 
 specialise in particular spells. Also there are special attacks, that consume special points, called 
 SP. These attacks can also be upgraded in similar way.
  The story is also classical for jRPG (Light VS Dark or Good VS Evil) , but it becomes more deep, 
 when the main character faces a dilemma about good and evil. The evil takes control over him, but 
 that is only for a brief moment, because he finds a power of will and love and righteousness inside 
 himself to fight the powerful charm of evil. And he succeeds.
  Well, I simply can't put a bad mark to a jRPG, which also has had a good design work. 
  Highly 
 recommended for all jRPG fans like me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azuremirror
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  This is by far one of my favorite games EVER! The graphics are a bit dated now but if you can love 
 FF7 for its simple graphics you can love Grandia 2. The magic animations are fun, unique and some 
 just pretty. The battle system which is VERY unique keeps the game going. There is never a moment 
 you are waiting for something to happen you must time things well. Sometimes guarding in a split 
 second is a make ore break decision. Not to mention the characters are memorable. Ryudo will always 
 be in my heart! Some draw backs include: 1) the battle system as fun and exciting as it is can 
 be a little hard to get used to and, like i said before, timing is key so you have to quickly learn 
 to guard (which is nice since i have found little use to guard in other RPGs) 2) the last boss 
 took a little grinding while the rest of the game flowed VERY well in regards to leveling. 3) there 
 is absolutely NO NEED to talk to all the townspeople or even explore the building (excluding the 
 weaponry/armory and item shop) . Overall solid, simple superb! prepare yourself for a twist and 
 many hours of great game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BravoTango
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 11, 2007 11:47 am PT
Review:  The storyline was a little weird and awkward, but it works. The dialogue were at most times boring 
 and I found myself sleeping more than once on some occasions. So far, all I know is that there 
 is a guy named Zera or Valmar or something and he wants to destroy the world. I really thought 
 that whoever made this game should have thought up a better storyline.
  I rate the storyline 3/5.
  
  The graphics flat out suck for the ps2. That's all I have to say 
 about that. The gameplay was probably the only good thing I could say about this game. I liked 
 the way it was structured and it was a little for less confusing then Final fantasy. I kinda liked 
 the time based attack thing, but I preferred if it were an open battle type kinda thing. The way 
 of finding your way around was also kinda of confusing, so it took time to actually find where 
 it was exactly you wanted to go. I rate the gameplay a 3/5.
  
  The sound was kinda annoying and I didn't really like it. It kept repeating the same song over 
 and over for the battle scenes and kinda left me wondering if I should shut off the volume entirely. 
 I should also note that some of the singing made by the lady in white, forgot her name, is quite 
 good. The acting voice was pretty good. I rate the sound 3/5
  
  Overall, the game was ok, but I would suggest playing final fantasy over this one. hopefully future 
 Grandias will be a lot more better. I rate the overall game 3.2/5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_spartanator
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 14, 2007 3:21 am PT
Review:  Grandia II is a great game full of great gameplay and a long and fun story line that is full of 
 action and adventure, good and evil and is better than most RPGs out there. The combat system is 
 really good, with special animations for characters when they use certain spells or attacks. I 
 recommend it to anyone is a fan of good RPGs. It has hours of gameplay, like all good RPGs should 
 have. It should be good for all the Final Fantasy fans out there. The graphics are as too flash 
 as most RPGs available now, like Oblivion or World of Warcraft, but it still good anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arusu666
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 12, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Believe me or not but Grandia 2 was the very first jrpg I have played in my life. That's the reason 
 I loved it with my whole little heart. After many years I beat it, I can say loudly: it's not even 
 half as good as Grandia nor any of Final Fantasies.
  
  Our main hero, Ryudo, has got great potential that was sadly completely lost during the game. Let's 
 not dwell into this though - he's still memorable and nice character. His companions will also 
 take some place in your heart - they're all greatly done. Their story might not be the most original, 
 but I'm sure you'll still like it. Graphics are not exactly the strongest point of this game but 
 your eyes won't bleed either, so it's not that bad. You can get used to those polygons. What's 
 really worth noticing in this game is the music - Noriyuki Iwadare is one of the less known but 
 appreciated composer in video games music industry, he has composed soundtracks for all Lunar and 
 Grandia series. Make sure not to overlook music in GII!
  
  It was great to start with such a lovely game. Still, if you are experienced player there's almost 
 nothing that will keep you playing this game. Being completely honest with you - there's no point 
 in beating it more than once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_illest101
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 31, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  One of my friend recommend this game and after I finish it I was like there is nothing special 
 about that game it's very average but the storyline is less then average there is nothing special 
 about this game
  
  gameplay: nothing special turn based rpg that u can move around as a strategicaly move graphics: 
 nothing special they look ok. the spells are alright but it's not wow
  
  sound: again here nothing special after playing that I realize that I'm not gonna try any other 
 grandia cause final fantasy is a million time better so don, t try this game there is nothing to 
 gain you could pass your time with much better games the that one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naklov
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 6, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  This RPG Game is one of the best ever, the only bad thing that can be annoying is, that you cant 
 skip the speeking scenes. But this is not a very big problem if you play the game the first time. 
 But have played it more than 4 times. Today i want to start again. 
  
  Its an old game so dont thing that the graphic is brilliant, but it isnt so bad.
  I cant write 
 more because i want to start playing now.
  
  AND if your a anime fan its your game. The last thing to say is: PLAY IT!!!!! PLAY IT!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edubuccaneer
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 14, 2006 3:36 am PT
Review:  Grandia was a sure-fire success over at the Sega Saturn. Its beatiful graphics, great story and 
 fun gameplay made so much fuss in Japan that it got released overseas as a Playstation game after 
 the Saturn's demise.
  
  Some time after its release, GameArts began production into Grandia II, an indirect sequel of the 
 classic. After three long years of waiting, the game was released for the joy of the fans. And 
 it was GOOD...
  
  It tells the story of the bounty hunter/ body guard Ryudo, a lone guy with a rebelious attitude 
 and foggy past. He has the job of protecting a young church girl as she is escorted over a dark 
 tower for some kind of ritual. The ritual goes bad and all heck breakes loose. This is where the 
 adventure really begins.
  
  The game plays the same formula of the first adventure. The battles all happen in really time, 
 you enter commands and they happen in a time guage that fills up and then the attack is performed. 
 The enemy's attacks are also in the scale, so if you manage to pull of a cancel attack, the fiend's 
 blow can be cancelled, for an enormous tactical advantage. The system makes the game not as hard 
 as normal RPGs, so people who aren't used to playing safe and sound in RPGs will have a good time.
 
  
  The graphics are beatiful on the Dreamcast. It boast VGA box support and it is worth it. The details 
 are sharp and colorful. There's also some FMVs, but they are rare, so enjoy them while they last.
 
  
  The music is one of the game's strong points. It was done by a japanese orchestra in conjunction 
 with portuguese authority (?) . Yes, I know, it's confusing, and if you own the american version 
 of the game, you get a bonus CD with all the music, and some of the music names are in portuguese.
 
  
  Story-wise, the game is not as strong as the original, but it has its turn-arounds and drama, but 
 not as much as that of a normal japanese RPG.
  
  Grandia II was later ported over to the PS2 and PC. It kinda lost its charms over the conversion, 
 even graphics-wise! So if you still have a Dreamcast, like I do, try to pick up a copy of the game. 
 It is really worth going through that effort, as the game is kind of rare nowadays.
  
  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loopieDloopie
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2005 10:01 am PT
Review:  So, what makes this game different from the rest? I feel its the amazing graphics and characters 
 that really get you into this game.
  
  Although the graphics for the PC version can be a bit boggy at times, it beats all other RPG games 
 I have ever played. You find also when in combat, which is alot easier to use than others too, 
 that moves will 'freeze' for a few seconds after. This being the only problem, I find it really 
 minor.
  
  The characters are all significant yet stereo-typical all the same. The main character, like all, 
 big brave heroic type. He even comes equipped with the love triangle beyween two female characters, 
 one good and one bad. Then there is the little, adorable kid who gets damn annoying after a few 
 places, and even the hybrid animal / monster thing whos looks can be very decieving.
  
  The music on the game is brilliant, and you can buy the albums to go with it! Instead of the little 
 Midi sounds, you get full instruments with vocals. The vocal singers are fantastic and really brighten 
 up the game.
  
  The game is so addictive, and it takes about 25 - 30 hours to fully complete the game. I highly 
 recommend buying it! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
