-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Grand Theft Auto: Vice City
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/grandtheftautovicecity/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 23, 2003
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.3
Critic Score: 9.5, 48 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 10,337 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Rockstar Games
Developer: Rockstar North
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     May 12, 2003 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If by some chance you've put off playing Vice City up till now, don't wait any longer. 

  Grand Theft Auto: Vice City for the PC needs no introduction. Not only is this game in many ways 
 better than its amazing predecessor Grand Theft Auto III, but it's also technically superior to 
 the original version of Vice City that was released on the PlayStation 2 a number of months ago. 
 Like GTAIII for the PC, Vice City is identical to the original PS2 version in terms of content, 
 so if you've already played that version to death, you won't find the PC version to be much different. 
 However, the PC version of Vice City does offer enhanced visuals and controls, improved loading 
 times, and a few extra frills. More importantly, it offers the same refreshingly open-ended gaming 
 experience, which has occasionally been reviled for its controversial subject matter, but has far 
 more often elicited much-deserved praise. Simply put, if by some chance you've put off playing 
 Vice City up till now, don't wait any longer.  

          GTA: Vice City is an excellent follow-up to what was an amazing game to begin with.    

  To be clear, Vice City is an extension of Grand Theft Auto III, rather than a completely overhauled 
 sequel. That's definitely a good thing, because GTAIII's freestyle gameplay was extremely entertaining 
 and offered tremendous replay value, yet still had more potential. Vice City fulfills a lot of 
 that potential, as it features improved production values (including over eight hours of licensed 
 music and plenty of Hollywood voice actors) , new types of drivable vehicles (motorcycles, helicopters, 
 and golf carts) , new weapons, better vehicle damage modeling, indoor environments, and more.  

 
  Yet the most obvious difference between GTAIII and Vice City is that in the new game, you're in 
 a brand-new setting, a sprawling city styled after Miami, Florida, circa 1986. Laced with neon 
 and featuring miles of beachfront property, Vice City simply looks a lot more pleasant than GTAIII's 
 oppressive New York City-inspired Liberty City. Nevertheless, like Liberty City, Vice City is actually 
 a den of corruption and evil. And it's your playground. You're free to roam Vice City on foot or 
 in any manner of vehicle you can get your hands on, and you can undertake a wide variety of action-packed 
 missions, explore the town, wreak havoc, or whatever. The game's convincing physics and terrific 
 atmosphere make any of the huge variety of activities available in Vice City enjoyable in themselves, 
 and even greater than the sum of their parts when you put them all together. You'd be hard-pressed 
 to find a single-player action game with more variety than this one, and Vice City will more than 
 likely surprise and impress you even if you've already played GTAIII to death.  

  Rather than put you in the role of a nameless, voiceless antihero like GTAIII, Vice City lets you 
 assume the role of Tommy Vercetti, a tough guy who has just gotten out of the slammer. He gets 
 himself back into trouble fast when a drug deal goes bad and he barely makes it out alive, so the 
 basic plot of the game is to get the drug money back and take out the double-crossers. In so doing, 
 you'll get to kill all your enemies, buy up the town's priciest hot spots, and eventually become 
 Vice City's resident crime lord. Vercetti, who is expertly voiced by Ray Liotta, is a likable and 
 memorable protagonist, and many of the other characters he'll meet, like a crooked lawyer and a 
 South American crime boss with an explosive temper, are also well done.  

          As Tommy Vercetti, you'll have a lot of dirty work to do, but you'll have a blast getting 
 the job done.     

  Vice City pays closer attention to its characters, making the proceedings seem more cinematic and 
 more story-driven than GTAIII, which was criticized in the mainstream media for letting people 
 live out their sociopathic fantasies. Regardless, if you were surprised by GTAIII's unflinching 
 portrayal of mature content, be advised that Vice City doesn't pull any punches either. And, like 
 GTAIII, Vice City somehow brings to bear a truly inspired dark sense of humor amid all its violence 
 and chaos. Smartly written dialogue, scathing social critique and caricatures, and a remarkably 
 well-done depiction of '80s excess make Grand Theft Auto: Vice City far more than just a game about 
 causing mayhem.  

  The story missions in Vice City are generally more complex and often more entertaining than those 
 of GTAIII. They're multiple-stage affairs, often requiring you to take out various targets, make 
 deliveries to key areas, drop someone off in exchange for something, and so on. They're fun, and 
 they also do a great job of introducing you to Vice City's gameplay and new features. You usually 
 have multiple missions to choose from at any given moment, and, true to the game's open-ended nature, 
 many of the missions play out quite differently if you attempt them multiple times. Like in GTAIII, 
 you can also steal squad cars, ambulances, fire trucks, and now even pizza-delivery mopeds and 
 take on various peripheral missions in them, all of which make for fun diversions. The game's save 
 system, which requires you to constantly return to a specific save point, is identical to that 
 of GTAIII, so it might slightly frustrate those accustomed to being able to save anywhere and at 
 any time. But since the missions aren't that long, being able to save your progress only in between 
 missions simply helps maintain the game's pacing, forcing you to accomplish each of your objectives 
 in one, dramatic take.     

  Of all the additions to the gameplay, the new vehicles are the highlight. Various types of motorcycles 
 and helicopters join a huge variety of cars, trucks, vans, boats, planes, and more, letting you 
 get around Vice City however you wish. Just like the cars, the motorcycles and choppers handle 
 convincingly, and the motorcycles in particular allow you to reach some ridiculously high speeds 
 and pull off some truly insane stunts, if you so choose. The game's vehicle physics are realistic 
 only for the sake of fun and visual authenticity. The vehicles handle very well even when they've 
 been beaten up front and back.  

          Vice City features new types of vehicles, including motorcycles, helicopters, and sea planes. 
     

  Like in GTAIII, some of the best moments in Vice City are when the cops are hot on your trail. 
 They won't go after you if you run a red light, but if you commit a serious crime in front of them, 
 they'll give chase. The more mayhem you cause, the more serious the opposition will get, and soon 
 enough the cops will be setting up roadblocks and calling for reinforcements from police choppers, 
 the FBI, and eventually the National Guard. You'll even come up against undercover vice squads, 
 in their fancy sports cars and pastel suits. The enemy AI isn't quite perfect, as you'll notice 
 when your foes try in vain to shoot you through solid walls when indoors. But Vice City's few minor 
 blemishes are easily forgivable, since they don't get in the way of the action.  

  The PC version of Vice City, like GTAIII before it, features a default mouse-and-keyboard control 
 scheme that works great. Using it, you can easily control any of the game's vehicles, and on foot, 
 the mouse allows you to aim your weapons as in a first-person shooter. You can also opt to play 
 with a gamepad, to mimic the PS2 version's controls and its auto-aim feature.  

  Vice City looks better on the PC than on the PlayStation 2 thanks to sharpened textures and higher 
 resolutions. You can also adjust the draw distance either to improve your frame rate or be able 
 to see much farther toward the horizon on higher-end machines. The game runs smoothly on systems 
 that exceed its minimum requirements, though you might spot an occasional hiccup in the frame rate 
 when the play disc is being accessed. The artistry of Vice City's graphics and the realistic physics 
 of its vehicles do much to compensate for what's an otherwise technically unremarkable presentation. 
 No, these aren't the sharpest textures in the world, and the vehicles and characters aren't made 
 up of an obscene number of pixel-shaded polygons or anything, but Vice City's graphics have a great 
 amount of style and a good level of detail. Fans of GTAIII will love how many of Vice City's vehicles 
 are earlier models of the vehicles from that game, and how they're clearly inspired by real-world 
 '80s autos. Also, the stylized characters featured in the game's well-choreographed and entertaining 
 cutscenes use convincing facial expressions and lip-synching, which helps the story sequences a 
 lot.  

  Despite all its other great qualities, Grand Theft Auto: Vice City's audio turns out to be one 
 of the best things about it. Like all the other GTA games before it, Vice City features a soundtrack 
 that consists of the various radio stations you'll be listening to as you drive around in stolen 
 vehicles. These are themed after the sorts of stations you'd expect to hear in '80s-era Miami: 
 There's a new-wave station, a rock station, a rap station, a metal station, and even a Spanish-language 
 station, plus a couple of talk-radio stations for good measure. Suffice it to say that there are 
 hours upon hours of recognizable radio hits from all genres of '80s music on this soundtrack, so 
 even if you never touched the game's controls, you'd practically be getting your money's worth 
 out of this game just by virtue of its being an excellent compilation of '80s tunes. The radio 
 stations all have their own DJs, many of whom are very well written characters in their own right, 
 and you'll even hear radio spots that cleverly mock the sorts of products that made the rounds 
 in that era. Vice City's audio ultimately deserves most of the credit for establishing the game's 
 atmosphere, and other than the soundtrack and voice acting, the sound effects for all the various 
 vehicles and weapons are spot on.  

          Vice City's nasty police force makes for a ruthless and challenging opponent.     

 
  Like GTAIII for the PC, Vice City offers an instant-replay feature that you can use whenever you 
 manage to pull off a truly one-of-a-kind stunt, escape, or killing spree. You can even save your 
 replays if you want. You can also create new skins for Tommy, if you want to change his appearance 
 for some reason (though you'll see him wearing a variety of outfits over the course of the game 
 anyway) . And, if all the '80s music isn't good enough for you, you can load up a bunch of MP3 files 
 and listen to those on the radio instead. All this is icing on the cake.  

  After the incredible success of GTAIII, it was difficult to imagine Scotland-based developer Rockstar 
 North following up with a comparably outstanding game, especially after just one year. But that's 
 what Vice City is. It's similar to GTAIII only as much as necessary, and it boasts so much new 
 content and so many new types of vehicles to drive and exciting missions to experience that it 
 is certainly not just an attempt to further cash in on GTAIII's success. No, this is an exceptionally 
 good action game, whether you consider it on its own merits, or measure it against the incredibly 
 high standards of its predecessor.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (255 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: FabulousGamer90
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 6:54 am PT
Review:  I wouldn't be so bold as to call GTA: Vice City a masterpiece; that would be a little asinine. 
 It's certainly not the most mature or sophisticated of games, nor does it have much artistic value. 
 But regardless of all that stuff, it sits proudly in the little corner of my mind where I store 
 the memories of all my favourite games ever. It doesn't try to be realistic. It doesn't try to 
 make us think, ponder, or question any aspect of it, nor does it want to do anything else other 
 than be insane, ridiculous, brutal fun; and at this it excels. Vice City is a game I have put an 
 innumerable number of hours into at this point; at the time it came out on the PS2 my social life 
 was pretty much put on hold for a month or two, and the same thing happened when I got my hands 
 on the PC version. Though some of its appeal may have been lost over the years now that game mechanics 
 have become more in-depth in the new generation, despite the aging problems that arise it still 
 holds up as an absolute blast from start to finish. The game still boasts the same mindless fun 
 it's always had, along with colourful and vibrant visuals, punctuated by an exceptional soundtrack 
 that helps portray an exaggerated 80s setting, that will all stick in your memory long after you 
 get tired of the game play.
  
  You are Tommy Vercetti, just released from prison after serving 15 years for multiple murders. 
 You're working for the mafia, and are sent to Vice City to do a cocaine drug deal. The whole thing 
 goes wrong, you lose the money and the drugs, and you're stuck in Vice. So you begin to work your 
 way up from having no money at all, doing jobs for various criminals, in a hope of getting money 
 back and being able to give back what you owe to your boss. By the end of the game you will have 
 a whole lot of money and own much of the city through buying properties (which give you more missions) . 
 It's a pretty overblown tale that borrows heavily from Scarface, even referencing it many times 
 in the game. The plot isn't the star of the show here, but as a way of sticking the missions together 
 it does the job. Tommy isn't the most likable protagonist ever, because he's basically a b@stard, 
 but I think it suits the game better this way. You're killing people, a lot of them mostly innocent, 
 for the greedy sake of getting as much money as possible. Making him someone other than a straight-faced 
 cold hearted personality doesn't really fit... The other characters you meet turn out to be much 
 more likeable, most of them being the extreme intentional stereotypes. Most of them are hilarious, 
 all of them are memorable. The game has superb voice acting and well-written dialogue.
  
  The city of Vice is a really gorgeous and varied place, there's Ocean Beach (based on Ocean Drive 
 in Miami Beach) the accompanied road lined with hotels and skyscrapers, lit up at night in a multitude 
 of different colours; there's Starfish Island, a rich area with mansions and sports cars; a less-wealthy 
 district, run down and populated by gangs. There's also an airport, docks, army base, nightclub, 
 strip club, gun shops, and tool shops (for the more hands-on approaches to combat) . The whole map 
 is strewn with conveniently placed ramps for your pleasure. Perform insane stunts all over these 
 places to earn cash. You can also pick up certain mini-missions to perform around the city, like 
 rampages and races. The whole city is your playground; you will love exploring it, taking in the 
 sights and the stunning colour palette of the visuals, and you will wreck a satisfying amount of 
 havoc too. However, in these modern times the scale of the city isn't as impressive as it used 
 to be, is nothing compared to newer free-roam games, and certainly nowhere near the size of actual 
 Miami which it is closely based on.
  
  The game play is varied in its content, because there are many ways you can have fun in Vice City. 
 Just driving fast and doing stunts, getting into cop chases, taking a boat out into the sea and 
 exploring (also doing stunts) , or maybe flying around in a helicopter. But undoubtedly the meat-and-potatoes 
 of the games content is the shooting. This is where the game falters a little bit. At the time 
 of its release, there was nothing at all wrong with Vice City's combat. However, time hasn't taken 
 well on the old girl, and it's very simplistic by today's standards, overshadowed by the intuitive 
 cover mechanics and player movements we have in this generation. The combat in the game mostly 
 consists of running out of a corner and shooting and then running back in again (or running away) , 
 but there's no buttons to help you do this, it's all manual, and as the games movements aren't 
 particularly smooth, it feels somewhat clumsy and often frustrating. Bunny hopping around, shooting 
 everyone like a madman achieves success to a point, but once you have a 4-and-above stars wanted 
 level that doesn't work so well anymore. You may feel some other grievances towards certain aspects 
 of the game that feel dated, such as falling in water meaning certain death, or not being able 
 to drive away if you get 'busted' by the police if they so much as open your car door. There is, 
 however, a good selection of weapons that are all fun to use, including some devastating melee 
 weapons such a katana and chainsaw. Again though, the melee feels dated in the games control scheme 
 and is imprecise to pull off.
  
  The driving in the game is really fun; the handling is completely over the top and unrealistic. 
 You can skid around corners like a crazy person and come to an almost complete stop in a second 
 or two after driving at full speed. Obviously with all the ramps around the map this makes for 
 great arcadey fun. There aren't a huge variety of different cars in the game, and you'll see many 
 repeats all the time, but that's okay because all of the cars have their own characteristics and 
 are all a blast to drive around. There are bikes too, and despite being equally fun to drive (if 
 not more so) , you fall off all the time from even 'small' bumps. Though probably realistic, realism 
 doesn't fit in with the rest of the game well, and I would have preferred for Tommy to have a better 
 grip on his bike so I could do some extreme stunts on rooftops without falling off so much.
  
  The soundtrack of the game is phenomenal! The radio stations in the game all have a distinct 
 sound, whether it be Pop, Rock, Rap, 'New Wave', or Soul, or whatever; they chose all the songs 
 perfectly to fit the style of the game. The whole thing is dripping with 80s cheese and all the 
 songs have that distinct 80s sort of sound that really adds to your experience and draws you in. 
 What's more, most of the songs are GREAT. I actually liked all of the radio stations despite not 
 usually liking some of the genres I was listening to. The radio hosts are all exaggerated and witty, 
 and there are two talk shows too, the sharpest of which being VCPR, which covers various serious 
 issues, but all the characters are the usual hilarious stereotypes, making it so funny to listen 
 to them argue amongst themselves.
  
  Though I still love Vice City's colour palette and the style of the visuals, obviously the models, 
 textures, and physics all show age. This all goes without saying though.
  
  Some of the game's flaws are beginning to show up clearly now the game is getting older and we're 
 in a new generation. But I think overall, Vice City has aged well. It's still some of the most 
 fun you can have in a video game, and doesn't try to tie itself up with being serious. Yeah it's 
 immature and crass, but there's an underlying genius to the humour and setting, and to be honest, 
 sometimes it's just nice to unwind into a fun little world and cause some mayhem without consequences. 
 Vice City is my favourite GTA game, and I really hope that Rockstar steer away from the realistic 
 route they're taking with the newer games. Realism is the big trend in gaming right now, but unfortunately 
 it seems like we are beginning to sacrifice some of the fun for the sake of it; and that isn't 
 cool. Hopefully sometime in the future there will be a game like Vice City again, but with updated 
 shooting mechanics and some of the other cool stuff in the newer games, just none of that ultra-realism 
 malarky, PLEASE, that isn't what GTA is about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddenrulz
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 6, 2009 1:21 am PT
Review:  Do you like randomly killing people because someon said so? If so, AVOID this game.
  
  When I got this game I thought "Wow, this is gonna be fun!" But, as I played on, I actually found 
 killing people sencelessly very boring. This game has some of the worse graphics on the PC I've 
 ever seen.
  
  Controls are patheticly hard. To shoot in a drive-by, it's so hard it's like trying to play football 
 with your eyes shut. The amazing thing about the controls is that it's actually possible to shoot 
 a gun in this game.
  
  Now, what else is there. Oh yeah! The extencive length of the game. Killing people shouldn't take 
 long at all. But, as Vice City proves, this game takes so long you'll probably retire from your 
 job by the time you finish this game.
  
  I'm going to wrap it up now. Basically, GTA: Vice City is a waste of your money. You need to be 
 a low person to go out and say to your friends "I've completed Vice City." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow997
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2009 10:38 am PT
Review:  Hello i am here to review the fantastic game GTA Vice City
  
  I must say that this game is the best of all series even of GTA SA
  and maybe of GTA IV because 
 of too high requirements : (
  
  Well i say all what i know :)
  
  Story 10/10 this is story from street guy to millionaire
  Graphic 9+/10 some bugs but its really 
 good ^^ Sound 10/10 OMFG the best !! R sure they know what a good music is :)
  gameplay 10/10 i played this game some time ago and played it about 200 hours O_o yeah i am sick 
 xD
  
  and then i install this game again and i will play it for a loong time :)
  
  well i just can reccomment this game to ya :) nothink else :)
  well see ya in Vice City ... you 
 must kill or you will be killed ... xD
  
  
  i must say somethink about perfomance code ... well its really fantastic cuz in GTA Sa theres no 
 perfomancing at all -.-
  they screwed xD GTA VC the best of all the ebsts ;] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehluv
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 1:05 am PT
Review:  Grand theft Auto Vice City is not the fourth in the series, but rather a prequel to it. However, 
 it is even better than GTA III, and yes, that's possible.
  
  GTA VC tracks Tommy Vercetti, a recently released convict, as he goes to Vice City for a trade, 
 and ends up peniless. The main point of this game is to take over the city. However, people in 
 Vice City aren't too happy with the arrival, so gunning fun is expected.
  
  The vast expanse of Vice City has so much to offer, that you might get lost in some of the actions. 
 The story will only complete half of the game, so game maniacs can hold their peace. In theory.
 
  
  The truth is, while there are many things to do, not all of them might be fun. For example, being 
 a taxi driver, you have to pick up a hundred fares. Now, won't people get bored by this? And there 
 are several hidden packages which yield rewards on being collected, but you might get bored collecting 
 this. I myself haven't completed 100%, and don't care. However, they are welcome distractions from 
 the missions, one has to admit.
  
  The controls are spoiled for the keyboard, and you might want to check out gamepads. However, the 
 mouse does a better job of aiming than the consoles. It is just that helicopters and firetruck 
 hoses are more difficult to aim.
  
  There is also a streaming mechanism that's seriously bad. Often, the place you are entering has 
 no textures, and has hidden obstructions, which remain that way until the game decides to stream.
 
  
  Still, though this game is not perfect, it is still fun. This game is a must play if you want an 
 introduction to the GTA series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BanjoMumbo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 7:34 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto Vice City was released for PS2 in 2002 and then later released for PC in 2003 
 and Xbox in 2004. It was one of the most controversial games of all time due to it's violent content, 
 but what the accusers didn't manage to see was the whole concept of go anywhere, do anything in 
 Vice City. It has a great story which has great characters with indepth personalities and detail. 
 The open-world is huge and fully explorable at anytime. It's a very excellent game that anyone 
 should try. There are tons of missions, weapons, vehicles, and fun. You can play the game however 
 you want with very non-linear gameplay and a great soundtrack from the 80's. If you like the concept 
 of a Scarface-like story, open-world, and a great soundtrack, you should definitely give Vice City 
 a try. There are tons of secrets, buyable property, and extra things to do after you complete the 
 game, you almost never do the same thing twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raabbii
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  I have played gta vice city so many time that i really forgot how many time i played this game. 
 It is really addicting game and you can do whatever you want to do but when you take damage or 
 lost your health there is not a easy way to gain it bak and its mission are not equal one is tough 
 and another one is very easy so i can say its combinition is not very good. There is a very big 
 world in the game and it can be played as you want thats the very big thing in this game player's 
 independence. and i really like this game for that and as many people know that in many country 
 this game is selling changing the language like Bangla, Hindi, urdu or many other language and 
 another problem is this game is so popular many time the CD player is buying are pirated so now 
 a long time passed and vice-city became old but still people play it and have great fun and really 
 though people like it and now we have GTA- San andreasd or Gta-IV. but people like it though and 
 if its a GTA game people really care about the cheat, theres many cheat and player really get a 
 hard time to find these things but whatever my rating is 9.5 for this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vishalsingha
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 4:36 am PT
Review:  a masterpiece. No doubt, probably one of the best in the grand theft auto series. everyone should 
 play it, it's worth playing. It can probably ease your hunger till the next gta game is out. The graphics 
 could have been better but it actually does'nt matter as far as the game is concerned. The game 
 features GTA style immensely immersive gameplay and it becomes an addiction quite soon I was mostly 
 impressed with the weapons, especially the melee and heavy weapons. With melee you got your knife, 
 screwdriver, katana, etc. and with heavy you've got a minigun, rocket launcher and a weapon I've 
 never really seen in a 3rd person RPG game - The M60. Still, with all this, it is pretty hard to 
 bring down a helicopter. The cars are awsome as well, you won't find lower class cars here, mostly 
 there are sports cars and mid-class cars. You'll almost always have a sweet ride at your safe house 
 and if not, you'll have a garage for all your beuaty's.
  
  Overall its a wonderful experience and you wouldn't want to miss out on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackener
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 5:01 am PT
Review:  GTA Vice city is a frickin sweet game! Difficulty is perfect, gameplay is outstanding, missions 
 are fun as and there are literally no loading times. The sound is realistic although the graphics, 
 i have to admit aren't the best. But the best thing about the game is the limitless freedom you 
 get. 
  
  If your tired of the missions just go on a crazy rampage and see how many people you can kill until 
 cops come and waste you. GTA Vice city is definatley a must have on any platform.
  
  The missions are fun as, especially if you like killing people and getting drugs. There is also 
 a whole lot of other mission type things like races and taxi missions, parademic missions, fire 
 brigade missions etc.
  
  All the vehicles are also fun to drive (and fly) . There is everything, from boates, cars, motorbikes, 
 ambulances, fire trucks and heaps more. 
  
  So if your like me, and you like to be a baddas, killing people getting drugs, racing cars, then 
 this is the game for you. GTA Vice City, San Andreas, and GTA 4 are the best games of the series 
 and you seriosly MUST get them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: claudespeed11
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  HERES GTA VC BUY NOW ---------
  
  ABOUT GTA VC:
  Grand Theft Auto: Vice City sought to not only expand on what GTA III was, but also to give it 
 a nice kick in the rear by going back in time. With Liberty City taking place in 2001, Vice City 
 takes place in the 1980s (specifically 1986) . This time, the game's story is driven by several 
 characters voiced by Hollywood actors, more than 90 vehicles, more than 30 weapons, several power-ups, 
 and the freedom to explore the entire city by land, air, and sea.
  
  Vice City was one of the cities that was originally featured in the first Grand Theft Auto game. 
 Since then, the city has been rebuilt and now has its own game. Its unprecedented level of freedom, 
 diverse missions, and sunny, coastal setting led to numerous awards and high ratings in some of 
 the most respected gaming magazines and on the best-known gaming websites.
  
  Welcome to Vice City. Welcome to the 1980s.
  
  Having just made it back onto the streets of 
 Liberty City after a long stretch in maximum security, Tommy Vercetti is sent to Vice City by his 
 old boss, Sonny Forelli. They were understandably nervous about his re-appearance in Liberty City, 
 so a trip down south seemed like a good idea. But all does not go smoothly upon his arrival in 
 the glamorous, hedonistic metropolis of Vice City. He's set up and is left with no money and no 
 merchandise. Sonny wants his money back, but the biker gangs, Cuban gangsters, and corrupt politicians 
 stand in his way. Most of Vice City seems to want Tommy dead. His only answer is to fight back 
 and take over the city himself.
  
  
  
  THATS ALL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaming_Samurai
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  GTA: Vice City is indeed worth playing. There's loads of stuff to do. Well, at least thats was 
 the case with me. The most fun is buying property and doing missions to get the asset, which you 
 couldn't do in the previous game. But as usual, when you complete everything, or 91% you have very 
 little to do. I was mostly impressed with the weapons, especially the melee and heavy weapons. 
 With melee you got your knife, screwdriver, katana, etc. and with heavy you've got a minigun, rocket 
 launcher and a weapon I've never really seen in a 3rd person RPG game - The M60. Still, with all 
 this, it is pretty hard to bring down a helicopter. The cars are awsome as well, you won't find 
 lower class cars here, mostly there are sports cars and mid-class cars. You'll almost always have 
 a sweet ride at your safe house and if not, you'll have a garage for all your beuaty's. The music 
 in the game is a little so-so. I enjoy listening people rant on talk radio's and I enjoy listening 
 to those 80's love songs. If you like 80's music, then it's not a problem. You also have the "Stacked 
 Pizza" where you can replenish your health. Though, there aren't much around and it's easier to 
 just save your game. The 80's style of clothing isn't really implied. There are a few suit's with 
 the typical 80's sandals. But everywhere you'll look, characters have tennis shoes, wich is good 
 if you're not a fan of the 80's. Over all, it's a great game with great stuff to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackout_06
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2008 3:49 am PT
Review:  If any of you like adventure games, you should definitely play GTA Vice City. One of the best games 
 of its genre Vice City is an experience that should not be missed out.
  
  You play as Tommy Vercetti who has come back from Liberty City and he is out for some blood. The 
 game features GTA style immensely immersive gameplay and it becomes an addiction quite soon. While 
 there isn't much to do if you compare it with San Andreas the story line is quite good with many 
 twists and turns. After GTA III this game will feel like a new one with its storybook atmosphere 
 (unlike GTA III) and subtle comedy. The graphics are quite good, but the soundtrack is like no 
 other. Of course the in game sounds are good, but the best is the FM Radio soundtracks (I almost 
 bit my tongue off while laughing at the comments.
  
  Overall its a wonderful experience and you wouldn't want to miss out on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soldaten027
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 12:33 am PT
Review:  Now I love the GTA series, but there's a time when a gamer has to look back and say "I played that?"
 
  Yes, I know I'm talking about GTA: Vice City and you might be thinking "Blasphemy! Burn this HERETIC!" 
 Just hear me out if you happen to be a little impulsive.
  Enter Vice City. Like its namesake, pretty much everyone here is corrupt and wants to fill you 
 up with lead every chance they get. Step into the shoes of Tommy Vercetti, a mob thug who knows 
 how to turn some heads. Soon after stepping foot in town, you start chipping away at the established 
 crime base and start building your own crime empire.
  Although the story was compelling, the gun and boat controls were awkward and the controls were 
 at times god awful. At times, the only thing I loved was the ability to drive around Vice City, 
 blasting out songs from the radio.
  I will give it credit for being a great sandbox game, but the game itself needs a lot of tweaking 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloody_player91
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto: Vice City is the second GTA to be released for the Playstation 2, and it features 
 many improved features from the first one for the Playstation 2. This time, you are in a tropical 
 paradise full of corruption and heavy police patrolling.
  
  The story picks up with Tommy Vercetti, who has been sent to handle a drug deal that goes bad with 
 some Cubans. [SPOILERS AHEAD] With no where to turn, Tommy approaches his lawyer, who redirects 
 him to several others in order to try and recover his money. By the end of the game, you must elliminate 
 one of the wealthiest men in Vice City, Diaz, in order to assert yourself in the city of crime 
 lords and drug dealers.
  [SPOILERS END]
  
  This game really improves upon the first release for the PS2 by adding in several cool new features. 
 In addition to a whole line up of unforgettable 80's tracks and some funny radio shows, some of 
 the action audios have been improved so that they sound more realistic. Gunshot and punching audios 
 mainly. Also, on top of that, general control over Tommy has been improved so that you can better 
 maneuver in the ever changing Vice City.
  
  Vehicles range from Helicoptor to boats, from motorcycles to army tanks. You name it, Vice City 
 has it. Of course, since the storyline is based around the 1980's, most of the people you meet 
 are fashionably dressed with disco-like suits and ridiculous outfits. Interactivity has been increased 
 with new cheats that allow for more interesting experiences (i. e., flying tanks) .
  
  The graphical experience is pretty much the same as the first, with a few noticable but not extreme 
 improvements. Yes, Tommy still runs like a clown.
  
  The environment of Vice City is emersive and vast, with buildings and skyscrapers galour. Of course, 
 now you can own some of the buildings for a little bit of money.
  
  Here's the breakdown:
  ===========================================================
  Storyline: 
 8.5 out of 10
  Gameplay: 9 out of 10
  Graphics: 8 out of 10
  Audio: 9 out of 10
  Replay Value: 9 out of 10
  Overall Score: 9 out of 10
  ===========================================================
 
  
  If you haven't yet played Vice City, I suggest you play it as soon as possible. It really is an 
 excellent mark in a series known for pushing the limits of gaming. I recommend this game to all 
 fans of the Grand Theft Auto franchise, fans of action games, fans of killing or violence (Not 
 promoted) games, and fans of shooting or driving games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumeh
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  =preview=
  
  Just no longer time to play this game, revolutionary and very inpredictible, very wide gameplay 
 and so many vehicle can u hack. and a good beach view.
  
  =gameplay=
  
  revolutionary i said that, Grand theft Auto vice city give u freeplay to observe all environment 
 in the game. u can do anything like hack many vehicle such as dumping truk, sporty cars, jeep, 
 helicopters, boat, and u can fix ur car with a new color and engine. u can punch or kick people's 
 on the street and get his money too. this money u have collect can do to buy clothes, weapon, and 
 a big club also. but if u crash police mobile or punch him, u will get one star and u will wanted 
 by police, most many stars do u have, most elite threaten do u get from police. so be carefull 
 and watchout the police in each ur action. if u die u will spawned in hospital, ur cash money will 
 decrease, and if u arrested u will spawned in police station. i think it's very immpresively to 
 play with widely gameplay.
  
  =graphics=
  
  Grand Theft Auto vice city have a not bad graphics performance, with 3D visualization, and camera 
 view. people detail is good, many detail in all environment will make u play the game in a long 
 time....., it's can run in inimum specification, such as i run in specs : celeron 1,6 ghz, 512 
 MB ram, and SIS mirage onboard graphics. so good and u will enjoy to explore the game..
  
  =all performance=
  
  like the older series grand theft auto, grand theft auto vice city always 
 give us freedom to play and explore all of game environment. but u will cannot swim like in grand 
 theft auto IV or san andreas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CastorT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 3:00 am PT
Review:  Back to the 80's.
  
  So I played this before GTA 3, which means Vice City is closer to my heart than any other GTA game. 
 It's the best, so until GTA IV comes to PC..
  
  It has many things you'll like, like the audio/soundtrack really sucks you in.
  V-Rock (Laslow) 
 of course being my favorite along with Emotion (Fernando Martinez) .
  
  Design is way better (superb!) than GTA 3 which is grey and boring, same with missions to if you 
 ask me.
  You buy estates and do missions there, and I really miss that in GTA SA.
  
  The main character (Tommy V) in Vice City is much morel narrative than in the previous game and 
 makes it all more fun story wise.
  
  Vechiles are pretty fun with choppers and sportcars and more.
  
  Map is great although in the 
 end you will feel its to small because the game is so great iself.
  
  One thing that might bug you are that you can't swim, and if you end up in the water you're sleeping 
 with the fishes. Thank SA for swimming.
  
  Not more to say than it is one of my favorite games ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  GTA: Vice City seems like a game that comes straight out of a mafia movie, in fact is it. Borrowed 
 heavily from Scarface, starring Al Pacino, the main game itself is a mirror of the original gangster 
 film classic. As I remember, the very 1st mission and last mission has the strongest influence. 
 A bravo tribute to either fans of the game or the film itself!
  
  If you compare Vice City to it's previous GTA III, there are several goodies implemented such as 
 you can ride more fun vehicles such as bikes and helicopters. There are more mini quests to do 
 and the radio stations I feel are wackier. I can just listen to the highly entertaining radio talk 
 and flashback music for an hour and sometimes, it just feels better than listening to the real 
 radio. Ha, it's really that good!
  
  The set design overall looks like an authentic 80's Miami or Vegas and thus you really feel good 
 cruising around the beaches and highways Sim City style. The main missions are also well designed, 
 though a bit hard at times. In fact, if you're just a casual gamer like me, you will find it common 
 to replay almost all the missions after the first few ones just to barely pass it and move on. 
 There is one particularly challenging yet very fun mission, which is the one involving navigating 
 RC helicopters around a building to assassinate your enemies.
  
  Well, mind you that there's a lot of morality issues here, so play it with an open mind and you'll 
 enjoy it very much!
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohitmukheja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  This game is what most of the rpg and action game lovers will love and this is no doubt among the 
 better games in its category
  the graphics are good and so is the sound and the gameplay
  i like it better than the ps2 version as i can play my own music on the car radio in the game which 
 is kinda cool
  also my pc has better config so the graphics are also better on pc
  the loading time is also very less as compared to ps2..
  the game is pure fun with variety of 
 missions with different difficulty.
  a large number of diff cars and bikes to drive. the game consists of funny missions also...
  
 player also gets a lot of weapon choices..
  simply great game and pure fun to play
  player also gets a lot of weapon choices..
  simply great game and pure fun to play
  player 
 also gets a lot of weapon choices..
  simply great game and pure fun to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maybe137
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  when i bought this game i liked it very much it starts that you will to do a deal in the airport 
 but some people kill all except you and you will to do missions and to earn the money that you 
 have loosed and giv it to sonny your boss well in the game you will quckly learn how to do things 
 and you will meet many people and the graphic in the game is normal and sonny is mad for you because 
 you loosed the money in the deal and he want the money back well in the last mission he will come 
 for you. and after the last mission you have owned whole vice city and then you will have like 
 2 million dollar the games difficulty is normal not to easy or to hard i recomend this game to 
 people and its worth the money but sometimes it lags very hardly but otherwise and awesome game 
 it is many different kind of weapon my favourite is rpg. andlater in the game you can fly military 
 plain and it's an military base in the game if you just fly over it or going in there you will 
 have much troubble 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dodo97
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  The game takes place in 1986, when player character and protagonist Tommy Vercetti is released 
 from prison and dispatched by Sonny Forelli, head of the Forelli Mafia family in Liberty City, 
 to Vice City for the establishment of a narcotics deal. Unfortunately, as the deal was almost complete, 
 gunmen attack the meeting and kill several other men, while Tommy flees, leaving the drugs and 
 the Forelli-supplied money behind. Together with lawyer Ken Rosemberg and with no money, Tommy 
 is forced to find the party responsible for the attack, and eventually seize power of the city. 
 You, the player, will take the role of Tommy Vercetti after he arrives in Vice City.
  
  
  Game is brilliant and the graphic is very good. I wish that there was more missions but it's ok 
 how Rockstar games did maked. Anyway the game is for 9.0 becuse you can't swim, you easer fall of 
 the bike and the panes are not existing.
  
  
  Graphic: 10
  
  Sound: 9.0
  
  Multiplayer: 10
  
  
  _______
  Dodo97 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Empire-Man
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  GTA: Vice City is as good as GTA can get. I have played the other games in this series, and though 
 they're all good, Vice City is the best. The other GTA games tend to start out slow and make you 
 work too hard on your way to success, but
  this has perfect pace and feel. GTA: San Andreas was just way too big. It has too many places that 
 you just don't care to visit. Vice City is just the right size. It doesn't have anything extra. 
 Although Tommy Vercetti is a psychopath, he seems like a nice guy, and it's fun to play as him. 
 His voice actor was perfect. The story in VC is simple, but it's good enough to keep you going. 
 The humour is also very childish, but sometimes it hits home well. All in all, VC is enjoyable 
 in all aspects, and something you have to check out, even if it's really old now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterinns
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2008 4:15 am PT
Review:  When I first played this on the PS2 back in 2002, I was instantly hooked on the sumptuously styled 
 1980s "Miami Vice" environment, and I spent about two months playing it every day until I had thoroughly 
 explored and exhausted every possible mission, sub-mission, mini-game, challenge, rampage, secret, 
 glitch and cheat, not to mention my free-roaming in-game "wanderlust". It was, is and always will 
 be my all-time favourite game, due in part to the fact that I was a teenager during the 80s, loved 
 the music of the era, was a big Miami Vice fan, and spent some lovely holidays on Miami Beach - 
 that, plus the truly excellent gameplay combined with the brilliant story and structure of this 
 game, all combines to make it a perfect experience for me. But even without my 80s nostalgia, this 
 must surely be one of the greatest games ever made.
  
  The PC version, which I bought in 2003 and still play from time to time even after 5 years of owning 
 it, is as good as the PS2 version in my opinion, if not better. I think I will never grow tired 
 of running, driving, powerboating or flying around in the game blowing up everything in my path, 
 getting the army to come after me and then stealing a tank from them. Oh, the joy of it! An absolute 
 all-time classic and a must-own/must-play game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoofia_pika
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 28, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  After Grand Theft Auto 3, much was expected out of the new GTA games- so what if they were spin-offs? 
 They had to be as good as Liberty City, if not better. And the next game which was released after 
 Liberty City was GTA: Vice City. Apart from being much hyped, it was also much anticipated. Players 
 and Critics, both loved the game. The game had much better graphics and apart from that, it also 
 had a more aliven city, if you get the meaning of what I want to say. The game had a much mature 
 story than GTA3 and the best thing about it- the protagonist could speak- which could not happen 
 in Liberty City.
  
  People loved the freedom, which was much more that that in GTA3 and they loved the way the story 
 was presented. In short, most of the GTA fans and newcomers to the series alike, loved the game.
 
  
  But does the game stand up as well as it did in its time even today? After the likes of GTA: SA 
 and GTA: LCS or VCS, or even GTA IV, can the game hold its own? Does it emanate as much entertainment 
 as it did in its time? To that, going against everybody, I say no. 
  
  Okay, Grand Theft Auto: Vice City was a cool game when it hit the stores for the first time becuase 
 at that time, the concept was still new and people wanted more of GTA. They liked the game (trust 
 me, I loved it too) because at that time, the game WAS good! It could hold its own against almost 
 any other game because for its time, it was one of the best games in its genre. But something happened 
 to Vice City which usually does not happen to a Grand Theft Auto game- it did not age gracefully. 
 
  
  As I said just now, it was a brilliant game at its time of release and all that, but after playing 
 other GTA games like GTA IV, GTA: SA, or even Vice City Stories, does the game look as good as it 
 did at that time? No! I mean, Liberty City still holds up as well as it once did, it has aged gracefully, 
 but Vice City does not look so good once you play it again after playing San Andreas or Grand Theft 
 Auto IV. 
  
  First of all, the city Vice City- not the game, but the city, is not alive. Its boring and almost 
 every other lane in similar to the previous one. It does not have any beautiful places as San Andreas 
 or Liberty City had and even the beach in Vice City is so boring. Vice City has less buildings 
 to explore and thousands of similar looking roads leading to almost the same place. The houses 
 are less in number and the city is very claustrohobic. And all you get to see in the city are buildings 
 towering over you, covering the cloudless blue sky and everything. 
  
  The cars in the game are boring and all of them look almost the same. The comments people pass 
 are repititive and... the city is too dull.
  
  The missions in the game are boring and repititive and most of them are driving based missions. 
 Maybe, at that time, R* still hadnt gotten over GTA one and two. 
  
  The police in the game is very volatile. You punch somebody and your wanted level rises to one. 
 In San Andreas, this was not the case. The police was much real then. I mean, get real! Does police 
 ever chase you to kill you or send you to jail just because you punched somebody?! And then, you 
 might enter a cheatcode and a car might appear out of nowhere. You enter the car and the Wanted 
 level rises. The police will come and start thrashing you and you might be thinking, 'Hey! Thats 
 my car!' But too late. By the time you stop thinking, You will already be dead and at the hospital 
 with less money and no weapons at all!
  
  Reaching the conclusion of this review, all I have to say is that the might have been good at its 
 time but after playing San Andreas, GTA IV or playing Liberty City again and THEN playing Vice 
 City AGAIN will make you agree with me. This game does not hold its own now and does not hold up 
 as well as it did in its time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: famicommander
Rating: 9
Date: May 14, 2008 3:57 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto: Vice City is in every imaginable way an improvement over the PS2 version, which 
 was an amazing title in its own right.
  
  The hardware specifications you need to max this game are relatively modest, but it still looks 
 much better than the PS2 or Xbox versions. The frame rate is steady and the draw distance is great. 
 There are hardly any glitches and pop-in is no longer a problem.
  
  The controls here are great. The PC version allows for a lot more freedom than the PS2 version 
 did. You have much better control over anything that flies, meaning you will end up in a lot fewer 
 crashes. You also have complete control over your aiming with every weapon, which is very satisfying. 
 For example, the mini-gun can now be aimed along both the x and y axes, when previously you could 
 only move it side-to-side. This makes taking out helicopters and people on the high-ground a lot 
 easier.
  
  The sound track is as amazing as it was on the PS2, except this time you can import songs from 
 your own music library and make a radio station out of it. The voice acting is easily the best 
 in the series, with Ray Liotta voicing Tommy Vercetti.
  
  We all know and love the gameplay. The difficulty varies from ridiculously easy to very difficult, 
 depending on the mission. There are hundreds of side missions to keep you occupied. 
  
  The story is what sets this one apart from other games in the series. Tommy is a main character 
 that is very easy to identify with; someone who has been wronged and decides to set things right 
 himself. Tommy's various allies and enemies range from pathetic to awesome and creepy to hilarious. 
 The story itself is an homage to the classic move "Scarface", and it will have you rooting hard 
 for Tommy as your progress through. I won't spoil anything for the seven people in the world who 
 haven't yet played this game, but it certainly comes to a satisfying conclusion.
  
  The property management is the best in the series. You can buy all sorts of different locations, 
 and what you get out of them depends upon the work you put into them. 
  
  And then there's the mods. You've got all of your standards: multiplayer, famous characters, different 
 vehicles, etc. You can turn Vice City into New New York and roam around slaughtering aliens as 
 Bender if you so wish. You can also find mods that add San Andreas and Liberty City (or at least 
 sections of them) onto the map in the forms of extra islands. There you can find familiar characters 
 and new missions. If you've got an internet connection. Vice City opens up a plethora of new GTA 
 experiences.
  
  And don't think I forgot about you cheaters. Anyone who says that they haven't popped in a GTA 
 game for no reason other than to go on a rampage is lying. Well, here's some good news for you: 
 you can actually input cheats while the game is paused. Any code at all. If you're about to die, 
 you can pause the game, input the health cheat, input the armor cheat, replenish your ammo, spawn 
 a tank, and then unpause and get back to the action. This ultimately leads you you flying a tank 
 over the ocean with six stars and boats, cars, helicopters, and other tanks hot on your tail. Who 
 wouldn't want that?
  
  Vice City's atmosphere sets it apart from other locations in the game. Everything feels like it 
 has a purpose, and the characters, music, storyline, and gameplay come together to form a genuine 
 world still ranking up there among the best in the history of video games. Nothing feels forced, 
 and nothing feels like an afterthought. If you haven't yet played this game, you owe it to yourself 
 to go out and buy it. If you liked the console version but wanted more, this one is definitely 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romanmoga15
Rating: 9
Date: May 7, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  By turning the top-down view of GTA 1 & 2 into a living three-dimensional city in GTA III and then 
 enhancing the game play by increasing vehicle and mission variety for GTA: Vice City, Rockstar 
 has managed to create one of the greatest and most fun games ever. Vice City is a Miami-style place 
 in the eighties where crime flocks in abundance and your purpose there is to "own the city" after 
 moving to Vice City from Liberty City (GTA3) and starting out as a petty criminal. You earn money 
 by completing missions of unlawful nature, at first for your bosses and later for yourself, including 
 mostly vehicle-chases and shootouts. Cut-scenes are stylish and humorous and all the while when 
 you are driving you listen to one of the Vice City's hilarious award-winning 8 radio stations. 
 The greatest thing about GTA is its open-endedness: besides completing the plot-advancing missions, 
 there are plenty of other things to do in Vice City which help you advance your character or collect 
 new possessions that make life easier (vehicles, houses) . And if you do decide to get serious, 
 there are different ways to approach each mission in terms of vehicles (choppers, airplanes, cycles, 
 boats or cars) and weapons to use. Vice City also takes no "loading" breaks and vehicle-chases 
 around the city often involving the cops make every time a little different. The only beef one 
 could have with Vice City is that the shootouts are not as exciting as Mafia's, but for a game 
 that maintains so much freedom as how to complete your objectives, the gunfights are more than 
 satisfactory.
  
  Any one else think the mansion you get later on starfish island looks like the mansion from scarface 
 ?
  
  20/20 - Based on : 30 HOURS
  4/4 PRODUCTION VALUES - The whole city is displayed without any loading times (save for interiors) . 
 8 hours on hilarious radio programs with famous songs. Superb voice acting. And game play.
  4/4 ACCESSIBILITY - As easy as driving a car with 4 cursors and shooting in 3rd person mode.
 
  4/4 PACING - Good.
  4/4 INNOVATION - GTA started its own genre; something that happens very rarely nowadays.
  4/4 
 IMMERSION - After about 20 hours I started to feel like it's my city. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucianu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  this is truly one of the greatest games that i have ever played, i think i played this game like 
 4 times. First of all i want to say that is waaaaaaaay beter then GTA3 in every aspect, Tommy Vercetti, 
 the caracter is very cool, and the story of the game is perfect in every way, the graphics look 
 good, very good for a 5 year old game, the sound is great in every way, i simply love the radio 
 station... every song :D, the misions r great, but some misions r very hard to finish, but its 
 ok, the misions r easyer then in GTA: SA anyway :P, and ofcourse the cutcenes arent bad at all, 
 there prety cool, the only thing i dont really like in gta: VC is the action controls, and the fact 
 that u cant swim, if u go in the wather u drown and die, that sucks ..... good thing the game is 
 perfect so those litle problems arent so big.... if u havent played GTA: Vice city ....... PLAY 
 VICE CITY!!!!! its a hole new atmosfere that i KNOW that u will like, and the graphics look great. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 5:01 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto Vice City is the second Grand Theft Auto game to feature full 3D graphics. Running 
 on the same engine as Grand Theft Auto 3 it does look sharper and has quite a special feel. You 
 play as Tommy V. in the game. The new features in addition to Grand Theft Auto 3 are very many. Starting 
 with interiors of buildings, many more guns, the ability to buy houses and ride a motorbike. It does 
 have small problems which won't really matter because of all the other things that make up for 
 it. For example the view distance has been improved but is still very annoying if car passes by 
 you and just after that you look behind it's gone. This is just crazy. It's a step forward for the 
 developers and you won't get bored with it. The game shows much improvement over Grand Theft Auto 
 3 and takes about 20-30 hours to complete. It's a must have!!!
  
  My Score 9.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satorn
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 17, 2008 12:18 am PT
Review:  
  I'm on a mission from the Colonel: to liberate a piece of "military hardware" being transported 
 through Vice City. In other words, I need to single-handedly steal a tank being guarded by a full 
 military escort. Greaaaat.
  
  After trying to take on the military head-on without much luck, a new approach is in order. I park 
 my Cheetah in the convoy's path, find a hiding spot, and wait for the escort to arrive. When one 
 of the soldiers tries to move the car, I blow it up with a few well-placed shots, taking a few 
 soldiers in the blast, leaving a Patriot Humvee unguarded.
  
  In the chaos, I run out and hop into the Patriot, roll over a few of the remaining foot soldiers, 
 and ram another transport. As I bail out of the Patriot and get clear, a second explosion takes 
 out both vehicles. With only one escort vehicle left, the driver of the tank bails, and it's only 
 a matter of mopping up a few remaining soldiers before I can hop in the tank and drive a few short 
 blocks to the Colonel's safehouse.
  
  Piece of cake, yo.
  
  - - -
  
  Like Grand Theft Auto III, one of the joys of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City is that there's rarely 
 one "right" way to complete any of its action-packed missions. Need to assassinate a mob boss? 
 You can shoot him, run him over, or set up some elaborate scheme to blow him up. PlayStation 2 
 owners got to enjoy the world of Vice City when it was first released in late 2002, and we're happy 
 to report that the PC version of Vice City is every bit as good as its PS2 cousin. In fact, with 
 support for higher-resolution graphics, the addition of mouse/keyboard support, and even a customizable 
 MP3 radio station, you can argue that it's actually better.
  
  No matter what you think, one thing's for sure: as we near the halfway point of 2003, Vice City 
 is the most fun I've had playing any PC game so far this year.
  
  Movin' On Down
  
  Set in the 1980s, Rockstar's latest Grand Theft Auto title is set in a South Floridian paradise 
 named (what else?) Vice City. You play Tommy Vercetti, a Liberty City goon who's just finished 
 a 15-year stint in the slammer. A younger Sonny Forelli (remember him from GTA III?) sends Tommy 
 down south to get a piece of Vice City's drug trade, but when a deal goes south, Tommy's forced 
 to change his plans. Although Scarface and Miami Vice are the most identifiable influences, the 
 game and its story draws on just about every aspect of 80's culture, from clothes to cars to music.
 
  
  While there are some differences, the game's basic formula is the same as Grand Theft Auto III. 
 Set in a fully 3D world, you're given lots of dirty work from a variety of colorful characters; 
 sometimes you're on foot, but most of the time you'll find yourself driving around in whatever 
 wheels you can get your mitts on. The missions cover a wide range of activities -- protection, 
 intimidation, destruction, assassination, rescue or sometimes just plain survival -- and, as mentioned 
 above, there are usually a number of paths to success, allowing gamers to be creative and turn 
 Vice City into their personal playground.
  
  
  However, Vice City isn't just GTA III-in-a-new-town, as Rockstar has added a number of significant 
 new features. You can ride motorcycles, which allow you to shoot directly in front of you, making 
 drive-bys much easier. Buildings are no longer hollow shells; you can enter several buildings and 
 even purchase property, which becomes a key element in building your empire and progressing through 
 the game. If you get killed in a mission, you'll often find a taxi waiting to take you back to 
 the start, saving you the trouble of having to jack a car and drive all the way back. There are 
 a number of boat and helicopter missions completely unlike anything in GTA III and this barely 
 begins to scratch the surface.
  
  City Sounds
  
  While it may only take up a bullet point or two on the back of the box, there's no underestimating 
 the contribution Vice City's brilliant audio adds to the game. First, there's an amazing cast of 
 voice actors, with Ray Liotta as Tommy Vercetti, as well as Tom Sizemore, William Fichtner, and 
 Miami Vice's Philip Michael Thomas as sidekick Lance Vance. Even smaller parts are filled by notable 
 names such as Burt Reynolds, Dennis Hopper, ex-football star Lawrence Taylor and even adult film 
 star Jenna Jameson. Luis Guzman is particularly brilliant as drug lord Ricardo Diaz, stealing almost 
 every scene he's in with his animated (and agitated) hysterics.
  
  
  The other component of Vice City's audio is the soundtrack. You spend a lot of time driving around, 
 and there are nine radio stations available to listen to at any time. In the tradition of the series, 
 there's a lot of humor to be found in the form of talk radio and fake commercials, but unlike GTA 
 III -- which had a completely original soundtrack -- Vice City's soundtrack features the biggest 
 hits of the '80s, with artists like Michael Jackson, Judas Priest, Toto, and Run DMC. There's even 
 one-hit wonders like A Flock of Seagulls and Gary Numan, with roughly 100 songs that can be played 
 from the CD or installed to your hard drive (it's a 2-CD install, and with music, takes up nearly 
 1.5 GB) .
  
  If none of these stations are to your liking, there's a PC-only feature that allows you to create 
 your own custom radio station simply by dragging your own MP3's into a special folder. It may not 
 sound like much, but let's face it: Everyone likes driving with the radio on, and since you spend 
 so much time driving, the soundtrack really helps define the character of Vice City.
  
  In terms of content, the PC version of Vice City is identical to its PS2 sibling; there aren't 
 any bonus missions, nor has anything been cut. All of the rampages, the police/taxi/fire truck 
 missions, the bonus packages -- they're all here.
  
  On the technical side, however, the PC version benefits from a number of upgrades, the first of 
 which is support for resolutions up to 1600x1200 (as opposed to the PS2's 640x480) . Everything 
 looks a lot crisper, and in particular, almost everyone here at GameSpy HQ who's watched me play 
 has pointed out the huge improvement in draw distances (an adjustable setting on the PC) . Many 
 of the textures appear to have been bumped up in resolution, although a few stragglers could be 
 found here and there. The latest GTA games have never been on the graphical cutting-edge, and Vice 
 City is clearly not going to steal any visual awards from DOOM III or Half-Life 2, but considering 
 the size of the world and all its moving parts, the graphics get the job done. (We'll just hope 
 that Rockstar switches tech for its next games) .
  
  Another change PC gamers may welcome is the obligatory addition of mouse/keyboard control. It may 
 seem like a small thing, and it doesn't have much of an effect on driving, but when you're forced 
 to get out and shoot, the ability to aim with the mouse makes things much easier. Console diehards, 
 you can whine all you want, but there's simply no substitute for aiming with a mouse; there are 
 a lot of gamers out there who have stopped playing the GTA games (and other shooters, for that 
 matter) out of frustration with the controls. My buddy Allen got particularly upset watching me 
 blaze through the "Phnom Penh '86" chopper mission on my first try, picking enemies off rooftops 
 with ease -- nothing like the trouble he had attempting the same mission on the PS2 and aiming 
 with the analog stick. (If you must, there's gamepad support as well, which you might find handy 
 during the helicopter missions.)
  
  One of the few complaints levied at last year's PC version of GTA III was the state in which it 
 was shipped. That game required a pretty strong PC to run, and many gamers had trouble getting 
 it running consistently, requiring patching on Rockstar's part. In the interest of full disclosure, 
 we've only been playing Vice City for a week, but from what we've seen so far, the game is in a 
 far better state this time around. I've yet to encounter a single crash, and have actually been 
 playing through the entire game at 1600x1200 with a solid framerate.
  
  Normally, this would be the point of the review where we talk about a game's multiplayer except 
 there isn't any in Vice City. As much as we'd like to cruise the streets with our buddies, however, 
 it's hard to complain -- there are so many things to do that you could probably play for weeks 
 and still not see it all. You can get a job flinging pizzas from the back of your bike, open a 
 "special business" while driving an ice cream truck, take part in various races or just drive around 
 performing crazy stunts.
  
  Of course, no review of a Grand Theft Auto game these days would be complete without a disclaimer 
 regarding its mature content, which has sparked all sorts of controversy since GTA III was released. 
 Vice City is in every way the equivalent of an R-rated movie, with profanity, violence, and any 
 number of other things that make Jerry Falwell turn in his pajamas. It's definitely not a game 
 for 10-year olds. However, it is a game for adults: It's smart, it's funny, and it's just damned 
 FUN.
  
  To be honest, my biggest disappointment with Vice City is that -- as we're all getting set for 
 a week in Los Angeles to cover E3 -- I have to put it away for a while. Many of today's action 
 games compel gamers to race through them as quickly as possible, rarely stopping to enjoy the scenery, 
 but Vice City is the total opposite. It's a game you want to soak in; a game you want to take in 
 slowly and enjoy every moment. I can't tell you how many times I was heading for one of the "main" 
 missions and simply decided to go another route and explore some corner of Vice City. Maybe I wanted 
 to see if I could actually make that jump across the river, or climb to the top of that building, 
 or simply see how much trouble I could get into. If you haven't been to Vice City yet, pack your 
 bags -- it's a trip you won't soon forget. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrick00746
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  Music: Character voices are good, also the radio music too, you can customize your own music as 
 like before (you will hear your own MP3 music in one of the radio station)
  
  Graphics: As like before it's a 3D third person and the environment are smooth now.
  
  Game 
 Play: Start from the cinematic you and your friend ( Lawyer ) have a business deal with Lance as 
 your boss Sonny Ferelle told you about, but while and business deal with Lance a Swat show up where 
 you and Lance having a deal and the swat get the money and the drugs as an evidence. Then you got 
 a call from Sonny, Sonny want to get back here money but you don't know yet that Sonny plan that. 
 You will have two different town / map to look for money and give it to Sonny, also you will work 
 with Lance as one of your friend now, but suddenly he will betray you because Lance is one of Sonny 
 men's. You can buy business to earn more money and also you can have mission from every business 
 that you buy. Also you can change your outfit instantly found along the street like for example 
 the golf outfit found in front of golf area, the civilian outfit found and the mall and a lot of 
 more. You also have a tree kind of weapon the thug weapons (slightly high powerI bet this good 
 cause I don't want to kill anybody ") , professional weapons (medium high powerI need this to 
 protect myself ") , and the nutter weapons (high powerwow I like that cause I'm a psycho) 
 it's up to you to choose what weapons you will use. Also you have sub-mission like rampage mission 
 I don't know what you get if you finish 100 of it but for sure you will gain money from it. And 
 collect all the package and all district / town, 10 package will unlock a weapon and front or inside 
 of your save point or hide out to complete this sub-mission you will need to get all 100 package 
 and it means you unlock all the weaponit's good right ". If you manage to complete the Taxi 
 sub-mission will unlock a nitrous (all taxi only) . The vigilante sub-mission, if you manage to 
 complete it will unlock 50% armor plus (you will have 150% armor) . The paramedic sub-mission, will 
 unlock 50% of life, like vigilante sub-mission but instead of 50% armor you will gain 50% increase 
 to your life. I'm not sure if this one is one of the sub-mission, the car exportation you need 
 to get all the car hot list and import it, if you already buy that business that have a car showcase, 
 also if you do this you can unlock a modified cardoing that will generate a lot of money I swear 
and also you can unlock the car race. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  That's pretty much how I look at Grand Theft Auto: Vice City. They kept the original core game 
 play of Grand Theft Auto III but just polished up some stuff here and there and yet it's still 
 a great game with nearly endless hours of fun. 
  
  Grand Theft Auto Vice City takes place in a Miami beach type setting in the great old year of 1986 
 (there are plenty of wonderful Miami Vice clichs throughout) . You still have the open ended free 
 roam and original game play from Grand Theft Auto III but you now also have some new vehicles to 
 cover ground with. Motorcycles, helicopters, golf carts, etc are some of the new vehicles that 
 made just the simple act of driving around the city, that much more fun. Also all the radio stations 
 have classic 80's music that when combined with the classic 80's attire of the people around you, 
 completely immerses you into the genre. 
  
  The game itself is set up just like every other version of the Grand Theft Auto series in which 
 you can either go off and do your own thing, or actually progress through the game by taking various 
 missions for different rival crime families/organizations. It's a great game and a great sequel 
 that's definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Vice City is the next episode to GTA III. It is not exactly a sequel, more like a prelude to GTA 
 III.
  
  You play as Tommy Vercetti, a thug working for a mafia boss. When a drug deal turns into a bloodbath, 
 you go to Vice City to settle some scores and earn back the money. Your stay in Vice City becomes 
 longer than planned and it will eventually become your new home.
  
  First, let us talk about the good parts of the game.
  
  I loved the way the story progressed. 
 You come to the city with no money, and start running errands for the local gangs; soon you climb 
 up the ladder, start acquiring properties, and become rich enough to run the city.
  
  Vice City is a sprawling metropolis. It contains two islands connected by bridges and some islets 
 as well. What this means is that, you will spend a lot of time exploring the city which makes the 
 game quite long, and very enjoyable for most part.
  
  The missions are non-linear, you do not have to follow the main mission; you could just pick one 
 of the many side quests, and get to the main mission at your own pace. Completing certain main 
 missions is necessary to unlock parts of the city, more side missions or to buy properties etc, 
 and also to earn the much needed money  you can't hope to earn all the money needed driving a 
 taxi or delivering pizza.
  
  Some of the vehicles seen in GTA III are seen again, like Cheetah and Patriot, but the most significant 
 introduction is the bikes. I spent a lot of time driving through the city on the bike, squeezing 
 between cars at break neck speed!
  
  Most of the vehicles handle very well, some better than others of course, and soon you will have 
 your own favorites. You also get to fly a helicopter and a plane during the game, so there is no 
 shortage of variety in Vice City!
  
  The graphics in the game have received a lot of makeover. Even though the game runs the same engine 
 as GTA III, it looks a lot better. The draw distance has improved, and this is particularly noticeable 
 when flying.
  
  Sound is very good, with excellent voice acting from Hollywood celebrities. I also loved listening 
 to the radio while I was driving. I can recollect driving through the city just to listen to the 
 radio station, some of them are hilarious, especially KCHAT and VCPR.
  
  Given the excellent features of the game, I have some mixed feelings. The game is brilliant. There 
 is no doubt about that, I would not spend 46 hours playing it, if it was not good, but the game 
 has certain inexplicable flaws.
  
  To being with, getting to a mission involves driving to a certain place, picking up a certain person 
 etc. Sadly, it is not possible to save the game during a mission, or even at the start of a mission. 
 One slight mistake is enough to fail in the mission, which most of the times means you will have 
 to restart from a previous save point, and go through the whole process of driving to the place, 
 going through the cut scene and what not. To add to the frustrating, you die for stupid reasons 
 such as falling into a puddle.
  
  Controlling the flying vehicles, especially the RC (Remote Control) Helicopter is extremely tough. 
 You are a given a mission where you need to pick up and drop bombs in certain places using the 
 RC Helicopter within a time limit, and there are people shooting at it.
  
  Similarly, you need to control an RC Plane while it is being shot at, and its fuel is running low. 
 I just could not get this to work on my keyboard, and I had to resort to my controller, which defeats 
 the whole purpose of playing on the PC.
  
  I cannot imagine why these defects even exist. What is the point of not having autosave during 
 missions like on consoles? Why were the controls for flying vehicles not tweaked for the PC?
  
  I tried hard to love this game, and give it a 9.5, but bearing these faults in mind, the PC 
 version is just not that good. Mind you, the game is still worth playing, but I am severely disappointed 
 with some of the gameplay elements.
  
  If only the developers were not so dim-witted, this would have been a classic, it probably is for 
 many people; just not for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Value: 10
  Tilt: 10
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Grand Theft Auto Vice City is the best in the series (even GTA San Andreas) . Delivering an outstanding 
 gameplay, you will play non-stop. I personally played this game at least five times. From the beautiful 
 Maimi setting, the classic and fast cars, the people, the crowded clubs, to the luxurious homes 
 that you will be able to purchase, you will be amazed. The missions are just plain fun, maybe a 
 couple annoying ones, but there not a big deal. In my view, it seems that Vice City is taking after 
 the movie Scarface, as many of scenes and areas will look highly familiar. Overall, once more the 
 GTA franchise does it again with another amazing game! If you haven't already picked this game 
 out, you are missing a whole lot of fun. This version of Vice City is highly recommended as you 
 will be able to mod it with new missions, characters, buildings, cars, and much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20thcentury
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 5:13 am PT
Review:  GTA VC is one of the first games that gives the player freedom in many aspects of the game. When 
 you feel like you need some downtime, you can check out the various sub-missions available- even 
 though they don't make any sense to you. The game allows you to drive vehicles including cars , 
 trucks even tanks. You can drive boats, fly helicopters oh!! the fun doesn't end. Even if you finish 
 the story, there's still much you can do. You can play and finish the game 100% and be proud of 
 that!! There are a lot of weapons available ranging from handguns to submachine guns, shotguns 
 to assault rifles even bazookas and chain guns, and some explosives like the icing on the cake. 
 The sub missions include driving toy cars, eliminating criminals, putting out fires and taking 
 people to the ambulance just like the previous GTA III. Collecting hidden packages gives you certain 
 bonuses like new weapons. It's a game that should never be missed!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2008 12:53 pm PT
Review:  The game was very well made for 2003. This game is ONE of the best in the last one or two decades, 
 but something made me to give 8, not 9 or 10. And those things are:
  
  - the graphics aren't made very well.
  - the game has codes (cheats) and this makes the player 
 not to play at his full potential.
  - sometimes is boring to die and next you automatically come to life, it makes the game to not 
 be realistic.
  - the map should be a little bit bigger from my opinion. 
  - the game has some program errors, like when I was driving a car which later had an accident, 
 the car was blocked in a wall and I couldn't get it out, so I restarted the game.
  - the story line it isn't so cool. (my opinion)
  - it should have more original cars and motorcycles, 
 but this means that the map should be more bigger, so it didn't have, because the map was to small 
 for other vehicles.
  - the difficult of the game is terrible, I mean, it is too EASY! For Pete's sake!
  - it could 
 make the game a little bit non-violent, it should be 16+, not 18+.
  - the police cars, I mean, when you are chased by the police, how can the police have so many cars 
 in so small map, where they put all the hundreds police car? Under the sea? Because I see only 
 2 or 3 police cars at every police station.
  - in the game, you can't enter in most of the buildings and this it makes a little boring, because 
 sometime, I want to spend some time in the buildings, not outside.
  - in general, the game is not realistic at some points of view. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grall23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 4:55 am PT
Review:  vice city is almost identical to the vice city in vice city stories but one good thing is that 
 the shops are "walk in", where you do not have to step in an arrow and get loaded into the shop. 
 vice city's shops are open and are in the same environment as the outside city. the core campaign 
 missions are very fun and the side missions even better. the side missions help you get money to 
 help in the core missions and are plentiful. although some are repetitive, there is a wide variety 
 to choose from. the graphics are quite good but the voice acting is excellent. tommy vercetti may 
 be a cool, calm guy but that is what makes him stand out from the other charcters. that does not 
 mean the other characters are dull, but tommy is the most memorable. the missions are not too difficult 
 but when cruising around vice city, it is easy to attract police attention and get in serious trouble 
 with the law. the vice police are ruthless and just bumping a cop car will cause them to come after 
 you with guns.
  there are little bad points about vice city other than some technical glitches where tommy can 
 run his car through a wall, but other than that, vice city is an excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luiggi_DiMaggio
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  This game kick ass,, Tommy Versetti most be one of the best character with i ever play in a game, 
 and with one of the best and most funnys story of games history, that continue the revolutionary 
 Grand theft auto 3, with funnys moments and comments,, and a gameplay fantastic, with millons of 
 thinks to do or watch, this game for be the continued of Gta 3, is much much better,, fix a lof 
 of character gameplay , make movements more easiest, and all that,, i dont know,, this game is 
 extremmly adictive,, is assome,, i finished this game 4 times and i never get bored,, and after 
 finish the story, i play for months with no mission,, just for look all the places and minigames 
 and found all the treasures,, ( i found 96) , and when i finish the game, i make about 90%, i just 
 dont know what more i can do, haha, but well, 
  a lot of games try to copy, some makes mediocre games, and some other make good games,, but nobody 
 ever can be better than this game
  
  
  Let the force be with you young padawan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nick_Thomas112
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  grand theft auto vice city has got to be one of the best games i have played. there is always something 
 to do. i have played it only 5 or 6 times but still i find it intriguing. there is different kinds 
 of cars to drive all over the place. i hope everybody likes this game, because i reckon you would 
 have to mad if you didn't!!. i have played it on ps2 and i have just bought it for pc. i hope it 
 is as good on pc as it is on ps2. good on ya rockstar!! keep up the good work and lets hope they 
 make some wicked games in the future 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmac66
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2007 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay is just like any other gta game i would rate the gameplay 9.0/10 because 
 the gameplay is better than i thought it would be. So the gameplay is good though nothing bad about 
 it but little improvement thats all.
  
  Graphics: The graphics I'd rate 8.0/10 because the graphics aren't really good they are good but 
 not quite tommy doesn't look so good he his face is little off but 8.0/10 is good.
  
  Missions: This is the best part the missions i'd rate 9.5/10 because they are so fun to play most 
 of them but then it gets hard in the end not like i'm trying to complain because mostly every game 
 gets hard in the end.
  
  Summary: To finish this review off what i've wrote about this game is really good and you should 
 get it because it starts to get really fun stealing cars destroying all sorts of fun stuff. Get 
 this game and you will never regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjordan66
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Since gta 3 this game has improved so much by the graphics, game play everything! First time i 
 played this game I was amazed I wanted to buy the game then when I bought it i played all day trust 
 me dont sell this game because this game will probably get you addicted to rpg games alot more 
 because most missions are fun but some are so hard and the graphics aint so good though but at 
 least they improved since gta 3. The missions are so fun and its fun stealing crazy cars and making 
 cops chase you and you shoot ppl its really cool my suggestion is you get it! or rent it first 
 your choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikylin
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  All the Great Theft Auto games are great, and have their own original and Rockstar stylish flavour 
 and this one in particular I think, brings all the charm off all the Great theft auto series together. 
 The liberty introduced in all of the series and especially this game is totally awesome, it comes 
 together with a sense of reality. I remember after playing this game for 6 hours in row which past 
 very fast, I came out to the street with a real sense of not wanting to walk anywhere and just 
 standing in the middle of the road and taking the first and best car there was out there. Instead 
 I told myself Darn, back I go and kept on playing it. The possibility of having radio in the 
 cars with their special past date castings is really sweet to. Maurice Chavez is such a great personality 
 of the game as any of the other characters. As most of this kind of games, they have a story line, 
 together with being able to do most whatever you want as you play.
  
  This is very short when you for a review of this kind of game, but in the end, I totally recommend 
 you play it, even if you havent played any of the other ones of the series. This is a great starter. 
 I have to have to put this in the review, but this should not be played by any irresponsible under 
 aged teenager, but that advisement comes together with the game anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giro786
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 12:51 am PT
Review:  this game is fantastic it is the best in its series , excellent idea in the game
  
  th guys is soooo cool ; the missions are great ; and i love to take any car from the street that 
 i would like to drive ( if this was in the actual life , i would have driven a ferrarri ) ; it 
 gavies you the pleasure to drive many many cars take an AK47 and shoot everybody ; but not all 
 missions are about shooting everybody ; there is some stealth missions , where you have to be very 
 critical on what you do and when you do it
  
  in conclusion , GTA Vice city was the best in its series ; i would love to play another PC-Game 
 of GTA ( maybe GTA4 ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  We understand that approximately 1 billion people purchased both GTA III and Vice City on the PS2. 
 Thats a lot of money probably better spent on drugs, guns, cars, and women. (Of course, believe 
 the conservative crazies out in mainstream medialand, and theyll erroneously suggest that my 
 outlook on life might have been warped a little by this serieswhen in fact Im just plain nuts.) 
 The point is, there are actually some good reasons to dig into the PC version of this console blockbuster, 
 once youve siphoned the necessary funds ($49.99) from an offshore account.
  
  Vice City time-warps us back to a mid-80s Florida town with more than a passing resemblance  
 an homage, if you will  to the Miami haunted by Crockett and Tubbs. In fact, Philip Michael Thomas, 
 who played Tubbs on Miami Vice, plays a major character here  as do Gary Busey, Tom Sizemore, 
 Dennis Hopper, Burt Reynolds, Jenna Jameson, and, of course, Ray Liotta, who voices lead character 
 Tommy Vercetti. Movie and TV buffs will recognize several more quality voice performances as well.
 
  
  Hilariously true to its era, Vice City is infested with bad pop music and worse clothing [or great 
 music and my current wardrobe, if youre of that age  Ed.] . Yet the bad style choices we made 
 back then are embraced in a way that gives the city and its inhabitants an amusing retro appeal. 
 And while the music may not stand the test of time, the tracks are well-chosen and should carry 
 nostalgia value for most any gamer 25 and up  hopefully the cool nostalgia about nightclubs and 
 fast cars, not rocking out to New Kids on the Blocknot that theres anything wrong with that.
 
  
  Vice City is an extremely immersive and detailed game that builds on the celebrated strengths of 
 its predecessor. You start out in an underwhelming hotel room with no network of associates to 
 fall back on after doing 15 years in the slammer for not ratting on boss Sonny Forelli. But youll 
 soon have access to mansions, safehouses, machine guns, and protection money if you play your 
 cards right.
  
  Missions run the gamut from assassinations to tank-jacking to bank robberies and other fun weekend 
 activities. Youll be in a vehicle most of the time (all-new 80s sports and muscle cars, and now 
 with added motorcycles and scooters) , but the on-foot action is nothing to sniff at. Mouse-and-keyboard 
 aiming removes a ton of frustration experienced on the PS2, and makes for much more satisfying 
 action sequences.
  
  Youll also enjoy some of the most engrossing and hilarious cut-scenes this side of a Hollywood 
 movie  no surprise, given the caliber of actors involved. Such is the amount of story content, 
 you receive missions and plot background through calls on your shoebox-sized cell phone.
  
  Although gameplay is very open-ended  you have the run of the whole map early on in the game, 
 and access to dozens of different motorcycles, cars, trucks, and even helicopters  theres a definite 
 progression, thanks to cascading timed events. Finish a mission for Boss A, and Boss B will call 
 to offer you work, although Boss A still has some missions for you to complete.
  
  The game also depends on your owning a certain amount of property for the main storyline to progress, 
 and each property comes with missions, so youll have loose ends to tie up after the main story 
 is complete.
  
  In addition to missions left over from the properties you havent bought yet, you can snag hidden 
 packages, drive off various stunt ramps to earn a little cash, generate a list of cars to steal 
 (to unlock rare vehicles) , and go on rampage mini-missions. You can even get into an ambulance, 
 police car, tank, military helicopter, firetruck, taxicab, or pizza-delivery scooter and open up 
 additional bonus missions.
  
  Vice City doesnt shy away from violence. A headshot will make a persons head disappear in a fountain 
 of blood, and sometimes a pedestrian hit-and-run leaves a red tire streak where you noisily crunched 
 their cranium. The action can be downright brutal, although no mission actually requires you to 
 run over people.
  
  Youre probably also wondering how the visuals translate over to your mighty PC box. Rest assured 
 that, not only does the game look gorgeous, but it also runs like a dream. With a PIII 933 and 
 a GeForce3  a rig thats not much higher than the minimum-system spec  I was able to run Vice 
 City at 1024x768 at high-quality settings. RAM may still be an issue for loading times, but the 
 games still 10 times faster than the PS2 version, with separate islands taking less than a second 
 to load on a medium-grade PC.
  
  However, when you disable the frame limiter (which is on by default) , its a slightly different 
 story. With both ATI and NVIDIA cards, I experienced some graphical errors that rendered Vice City 
 almost unplayable: huge artifacts and a delayed loading of textures made high-tension car races 
 and gunfights impossible to win. With the limiter on, though, everything ran butter-smooth, with 
 nary a crash or lockup.
  
  You may also find some missions nerve-wrackingly difficult. Racing Hilary during the Malibu missions 
 and rescuing Lance have proven nearly impossible for some people, so make sure you save your game 
 before each mission to reduce backtracking and legwork. That way, if youre arrested or you die, 
 you can reload to get all your weapons back.
  
  If you loved GTA III, youll worship Vice City. Its not just a rehash or a bunch of leftover ideas 
 and programming code: It stands on its own as a cinematic and highly replayable gem. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SetsuOkun
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 4:54 am PT
Review:  simple. first the shotgun and fire arms. why do we have the feeling of firing kids guns? do you 
 see bullets trajectory when u shoot an ordinary gun? no.
  same problem in gta san andreass and 4 from what i saw. they GAT to learn from fps.
  2nd why 
 not make a gta with kids yards? are they woried that they could make ppl shoot at children? you 
 gotta be kidding me. if ppl shoot at children he's crazy to begin w/ gta player or not. so we re 
 not in a alien experiment we re playing with humans style pixels now show the kiddies. a city w/o 
 playgrounds and schools just isn't a city. it's a game of hypocrisys. you went so far to even make 
 a coffe mod hidden in the game but you can't show kiddies? how weird is that?
  in short every thing that remind me of a game in a game and could havebeen better /diferently done 
 make me sick.
  and what's with those hips? day walking women move the hips like prostitutes do once dark has come. 
 what w/ that anyway?
  there are a lot of details to make a game true to life like tourists. random skater/roller kids 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nameless4ever
Rating: 9.9
Date: Aug 10, 2007 4:43 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto Vice City is one of the Best Video Games on the Playstation 2, without question.
 
  
  The gameplay is great, with free roam and a Realistic Storyline about a Guy who was in the mafia 
 who is now trying to make a name for himself, earn money, to repay his former Boss, Sonny Forelli.
 
  
  The sound was quality especially the impact when a object or person is hit by a bullet.
  The graphics we good but out of the 3 man attributes (gameplay, graphics, Sound) graphics is the 
 weakest.
  But im not saying its a failure im just saying. Its the worst of the best. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurningChimaera
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  Without doubt, one of the best games to hit the PC, or any gaming console for that matter.
  In Vice City, the player is Tommy Vercetti, a man on the run from whole array of mafiosi and bosses 
 that are either trying to blow his brains out, or hire him as a professional hitman.
  Tommy starts out trying to earn a reputation for himself in the Vice City underground, which is, 
 for some reason, the 'overground' of Vice City, a place full of drug dealers, gangs, and girls 
 in bikinis.
  The best feature of Vice City, and the reason it has come to be so popular, is the ability to steal, shoot, 
 rob, blow up, murder, stab, beat up or violate anyone and anything that crosses the player's path.
 
  With excellent graphics, and a clearly detailed city to explore, the game isn't just a bunch of 
 missions to complete. Every boss and minister in Vice City has something for Vercetti to do, which 
 keeps the player occupied for a pretty long time.
  The player can *ahem* commandeer any vehicle in Vice City, which include but aren't limited to 
 mopeds, bikes, banshees, cheetahs, even army-grade tanks.
  Another facter contributing to Vice City's popularity is the arsenal of cheat codes at the player's 
 disposal. There are cheats to produce weapons, armor, cars, tanks (complete with missiles) , bikes, 
 change the weather, and some cheats that aren't fitting to be posted.
  All in all, Vice City is the best, and most perfect game ever made, and if you haven't bought it 
 already, I would highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoMoBaZZe
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 22, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  The game has the coolest character in the series, the sound is great , and the radio soundtracks 
 is cool, I played 'san andreas' before i played Vice city, but I i did like this more, The AI is 
 not so god as in San andrea, but it works, The auto AI is not so good, The graphics is not so good 
 but it works, it is better than GTA III, The story is also one of the best in the series till now. 
 Maybe GTA IV have a batter story, but it's stil 3months intill GTA IV comes out. DON'T READ THIS: 
 kjk jkj kj kj kj kj kj kj kjk j kjk jkjkj kj kj kjk k kj kjkj k jkj kj kj kjkj kj kj kj kj kj kj 
 kj kj kj kj jk kj jk kjk jkj kj jk jk jk jk jk jkk jjk jk jk kj kj kjkj kj kj jk kj kj kj kj jkkj 
 jk jk jk jk jk jkjk jk jk jk kj jk jkjk kj kjjk jk jk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-holy-one1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 15, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  This game has the best sound ever it has even radioswhen u ride a car u can hear the radio too. the 
 graphics are good too, but not that good ull see it when ull play it .All other things are juust 
 great, fantastic. and the weapons u will have there are very good too especially the snaiper my special 
 weapon.
  you have missions too there u can make money .
  with money u can buy Houses. So what can i say more its worth the risk just buy it and ull see how 
 entertainment it is this game.
  Thanwhen u buy it u dont need to thank me for the opinion.
  all the best bye bye have a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDeppster
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 3, 2007 1:38 am PT
Review:  When i played it for the first time i was sold, i was so addicted to this game that my father sead 
 that i have to come down en drink something with my father...: P But i played it for the first time 
 on : 09-11-05. The day after my birthday. And i still play it... it's just a top game to say it 
 like that. But i think that you think that i, m comming from amerika or something but i don't i, m 
 comming from The Netherlands... It's a great country you really should come here on vacation or 
 something because it's great. And i advise to go to Drenthe the landscape is very beautifull there 
 and you can make great pictures, there are different cycling routes. I really advise it to come 
 one day to Drenthe (The Netherlands)
  
  Greets, Angela -XXX- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofwarfan2929
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 27, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Vice City Is A Wicked Game That Stands The Best.
  The Difficulty Is Very Easy Cause The A. I Sucks.
  I Spend At Least 100 Or More Hours Playing 
 This Original Old-School Game.
  I Learned The Controls In 10 Minutes.
  The Gameplay Is Addicting, Well Done Rockstar!
  The Graphics Arent That Good.
  The Soundtrack 
 Is Good To Hear Over And Over Again.
  The Value Is Worth It Definitely.
  All Together This Game Should Be On Worlds Best Game!
  GTA Is A Great Game I Hope Rockstar Continues 
 The Series.
  Because They Made Everybody Open Their Mouths With Suprise.
  GTA Is A Great Series, GTA IV The New One Looks Friggin Wicked, Man! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odeclogne
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2007 1:18 am PT
Review:  For those of you who've already experienced the joys of the previous game on the PC or PS2, let 
 me spell out the major differences and improvements in store for Vice City. The story is much stronger 
 this time around with a fully-fleshed out protagonist. The missions themselves are often longer 
 and sometimes involve more kinds of gameplay than before. Buildings play a bigger role as well 
 as the game permits players not only to enter structures but also buy them, opening up a new range 
 of missions and rewards. Add to that more weapons, vehicles and a host of other surprises and you'll 
 see that Vice City raises the bar for the series. The only downside is that the overall design 
 of the game doesn't have the same impact that the previous game did. Hey, if it ain't broke...
 
  
  If you've played Vice City on the PS2 there are fewer surprises in store. The two games are wholly 
 identical in terms of content (making things a bit easier on our strategy guide guys) . All the 
 missions, bonuses and characters are completely identical to those in the console version. But 
 the PC version benefits from better graphics, a slight tweak in the controls, a custom MP3-driven 
 radio station and a customizable character skin.
  
  If you've never played either game on any system, you're in for a real treat. Vice City tells a 
 much tighter, more personal story that GTA3. While the anonymous nature of the character in the 
 previous game made it a bit easier to loose yourself in the role, the main character in Vice City 
 is tied to the overall narrative much more tightly. The story plays out in a series of cutscenes 
 that set up the action of each individual mission.
  
  The game takes place in the 1980s, before the events in GTA3. You play as Tommy Vercetti, a gangster 
 who's just finished a 15-year stint in prison. Once he's out his bosses send him down to Florida's 
 Vice City as the point man for some new operations. Once there Tommy teams up with a shifty lawyer 
 (think Fredo) and the two begin plans for a big drug score. Once the drugs and the money disappear, 
 Tommy finds himself fighting to discover who's cheated him while fending off the existing criminal 
 elements of Vice City. As you might imagine, this type of scenario does involve a fair bit of violence. 
 What you might not expect is how the game can walk a line between humor and horror while presenting 
 all this material.
  
  Vice City itself is a fully developed island town that lives and breathes like few other game settings 
 before it. Cars drive up and down the streets, boats ply the water ways, news copters zip by overhead 
 and everywhere you turn the citizens of Vice City are going about their business. The crooks, cops 
 and citizens of the city are all capable of a level of dynamic behaviors. But even if you're not 
 shooting at them, they still have agendas. You'll see rival gangs fighting each other in the streets 
 and traffic accidents escalating in to fist fights.
  
  And while you'll spend plenty of time walking amongst these encounters, the real heart of the game 
 is stealing cars and driving from crime to crime. The list of cars available in the game is far 
 too long for us to examine each of them in turn but some general comments should give you a good 
 impression of what to expect. You'll find lots of small sporty cars and lots of large family sedans 
 and wagons with plenty of gradations in between. Large delivery vans, city buses and trucks give 
 you a slower but more damage-resistant ride. It's just what you got in GTA3, there's just more 
 of it this time around.
  
  Although it's not new for the series, I should probably say a few words about the rules of the 
 road at this point. Rockstar's struck a great balance between offering you consequences for your 
 actions and letting you run around without worrying about the real rules of the road. Cops aren't 
 too worried about speeding, running red lights or even causing crashes. This keeps the pace of 
 the game high and also ensures that, when you really do do something to cheese off the cops, it 
 becomes a dynamic part of the game rather than an inconvenience. The pace of the game is also helped 
 in that crashes aren't as catastrophic as they might be in real life; you can take a few hits and 
 keep on going.
  
  Getting back to the vehicles themselves, the motorcycles are a fantastic addition for the series, 
 not just in terms of the cool factor but also in terms of some new gameplay opportunities. At the 
 most basic level, the four types of motorcycles found in the game offer a really fast and nimble 
 mode of transport. Zipping in and out of tight spots in traffic is much easier from the seat of 
 one of these two-wheeled demons than from the driver's seat of your sedan. (A cute little scooter, 
 called the **** is included for your velociphobes.) You can shoot ahead of you while on the motorcycle 
 which makes them a great vehicle for the game's chase sequences.
  
  Tons of ramps are laid out all across the city. While they're placed fairly obviously, they never 
 seem terribly blatant or out of place with the rest of the environment. Naturally some of the placements 
 are a bit too obvious ( what's that giant ramp doing pointing out over the river? ) but for the 
 most part, the ramps are positioned unobtrusively. Once you get a helicopter, you'll even begin 
 to see how many ramps there are on the roofs of buildings. Quite a few of these are laid out in 
 courses, letting you ramp from one building to the next across large sections of the city. While 
 the motorcycles let you tilt up or down for some of the trickier stunts, you can take most of the 
 jumps in a car or on a bike.
  
  There are a lot more boats this time around and they're more often the focus of missions. You'll 
 be called on to take part in boat races, boat theft, and boat destruction missions throughout the 
 course of the game. Completing certain mission strands will even grant you respawning boats at 
 particular locations. The boating model is slick with just the right amounts of drifting and sliding 
 to make water seem distinct from pavement. The only really difficult part of driving a boat is 
 getting on and off without falling off the dock.
  
  Which brings me to one of our pet peeves -- namely that you can't swim. I wouldn't mind so much 
 if the game weren't set on a pair of islands. As such you're frequently near the water and there 
 are plenty of times that you'll find yourself drowning to death three feet from shore. It's particularly 
 frustrating when it comes right before the end of a mission. Rockstar's explanation that Gangsters 
 don't swim seems to dodge the issue a bit.
  
  And although they're not available until later in the game, planes and helicopters are also on 
 the menu. You'll unlock these as the result of completing certain missions or buying certain properties. 
 Some missions even require you to use these vehicles. But to be honest, once I managed to secure 
 a few helicopters for my own use, the PS2 version lost a bit of its structure for me. But that's 
 merely me responding to the wonderfully open-ended nature of the game. For almost a full week, 
 I rarely even bothered to take on any new missions, preferring instead to soar high above the city 
 or swoop down narrow streets in my nimble copter.
  
  The control system as conceived on the PS2 was quite convenient and the PC version maintains the 
 efficiency throughout. But the PC controls surpass those of the PS2 in a few key areas while falling 
 short only in one admittedly crucial area. (While you can easily replicate the established control 
 scheme with a gamepad, I prefer to focus on the new keyboard controls in reviewing the game.) The 
 translation of the controls is pretty straightforward. The game comes with configurations for both 
 the WASD and arrow key style of play. There are a few inconveniences here (like the sprint key 
 being mapped to the right shift key, a problem for us WASDers) but since you can set up the controls 
 any way you want, you can easily change this yourself.
  
  Mouse support is probably the biggest story here. Fanboy preferences aside, being able to use the 
 mouse to aim your weapons makes this a much easier, more convenient game. I'm not knocking the 
 Dual Shock system but the analog aiming definitely takes second place to the mouse for me. For 
 those who aren't quite familiar with the difference, the aiming on the PS2 is handled with the 
 analog stick. The centered position represents no movement of the reticle while a full press in 
 any direction starts moving the reticle in that direction. The mouse allows for more precise controls 
 as the reticle stops moving once the mouse stops moving.
  
  The new aiming controls make some of the missions much easier. Sniping Haitians from a distant 
 rooftop or shooting fools from the skid of a helicopter is much simpler this time around. Those 
 two missions took several tries on the gamepad; I got through them both on the first try with the 
 mouse.
  
  But driving with the mouse is, as the French say, le crap. It uses the same scheme as the PS2 aiming 
 controls: the mouse moves away from center and the car turns in proportion to the amount you moved 
 your mouse. Having to move the mouse back to center to go straight again is a bit of a pain. Perhaps 
 if I laid out a grid on my desk.... The alternative of course is forcing the player to keep moving 
 the mouse to stay in a turn. And my desk isn't big enough for some of the really hard turns I've 
 needed to make
  It's better then to go with the default keyboard steering. While it doesn't offer the same incremental 
 control that analog inputs provide, the thoughtful use of small, short taps almost duplicates the 
 finer controls available with analog devices. Again, as I said at the start, this could be fixed 
 with the use of a gamepad, but then you're going to lose the mouse control or be forced to switch 
 back and forth every time you get in to a car.
  
  Besides getting in and out of cars, you'll also be able to get in and out of many of the city's 
 buildings. Vice City has a number of locations that you can explore, from police stations to mansions 
 to shopping malls. There are even lots of missions that take you inside one or more of these structures. 
 While there's a brief load as you move in or out of some buildings, the rest of the game continues 
 outside. You can look at the window of your first hotel, for instance, and see the traffic passing 
 by on the street. When you step out, that's the traffic you'll see.
  
  You can also buy a lot of the properties in the game. You'll acquire some properties as a result 
 of finishing particular missions. We can't really get in to those without giving away some key 
 story points, but you will find yourself set up with a few choice pads around the city. You can 
 use these buildings as save spots, naturally, but you can also use many of them to store extra 
 vehicles. I've got a hotel on the north side of town packed with various police and FBI cars, for 
 instance, and a mansion with a fleet of sports cars. Some buildings give you even more mission 
 opportunities.
  
  While there is a definite core story in the game, you're pretty free to take on extra side missions 
 that support the main story without necessarily advancing it. This gives you a chance to go and 
 try something else if you hit a roadblock in the main story path. Sometimes a little time away 
 from a particularly difficult mission (and the missions here are a bit more difficult than in the 
 previous game) is all you need to bring a fresh perspective to the problem. In this way, Vice City 
 offers almost limitless playability. While you won't necessarily stumble upon any significant content, 
 you'll be just as happy spending odd hours driving around looking for the small rewards scattered 
 throughout the game.
  
  Apart from the vehicle missions that put the player in the role of ambulance driver, police officer 
 and even pizza delivery guy, the game doesn't offer the same kind of dynamic story-telling and 
 quests that worked so well in a game like Pirates!. But it makes up for this with the kind of depth 
 of story-telling that's just not possible in a purely dynamic game. The missions here can be much 
 longer and comprise multiple parts. On the one hand, this makes for much more interesting and engaging 
 gameplay. On the other hand it can require a bit of backtracking if you fail. Fortunately the new 
 game puts a taxi cab right outside your recovery point (hospital or police station) and takes you 
 right back to your uncompleted mission.
  
  If you can't tell from the screenshots, the visuals are breathtaking. Vice City differs from Liberty 
 City in that it at least gives the appearance of being somewhat clean. There's a pastel glow to 
 nearly everything that hides the nastiness that lies beneath. High rises, sprawling golf courses, 
 industrial ports and a host of other locales are all rendered with fantastic detail and fit in 
 well with each other. The transitions between particular areas and neighborhoods of the city are 
 seamless and very natural. The weather and time of day effects are brilliant; you can feel the 
 warmth of the sunrise or the dampness of a thunderstorm in the colors they use.
  
  If you've got a fast enough car and a straight enough road, you're bound to see some of the content 
 popping in. Pedestrians appearing in front of you aren't such a big deal. It's the cops on the 
 street and the rocks in the ocean that are the biggest problems. Luckily the problems with this 
 type of streamed content are rare. Also on the subject of going fast, I'm glad to see that Rockstar 
 has done away with the irritating blur effect that comes as the default graphics mode on the PS2.
 
  
  Once you get your hands on a helicopter, you can take to the skies and see just how good the draw 
 distance is. At the higher altitudes you lose some of the details but that's a small price to pay 
 for seeing the entire city laid out below you. Once up in the air, you may notice that there are 
 some huge areas of the city that never really get featured quite as they ought to. But that's like 
 complaining that you didn't get soup with an eight course meal.
  
  Again, having played GTA3, it's the little details that impress me most in the sequel. You can 
 see the back of Tommy's shirt fluttering as he drives down the street on a motorcycle. Another 
 nice touch is that the hood of your car will fly off once it raises up. (In the previous game, 
 the hood being up was part of a distinct damage state. You had to damage your car even more if 
 you wanted it to come off.)
  
  The smooth frame rate and stunning visuals are even more impressive when you consider the overall 
 stability of the game. Where GTA3 definitely took some knocks for performance, so far we've yet 
 to have any technical problems at all with our versions. I've had a small bit of trouble getting 
 my Audigy card to work but with a game this dense, that's only a very minor annoyance. I'm soothed 
 by the incredibly quick load times. On the PS2, I could always count on a little sandwich-time 
 while the game loaded up. On the PC the game loads in less than a tenth of the time it takes on 
 the PS2.
  
  Overall, the system requirements are quite reasonable. In fact, the game is so well designed that 
 you can probably even get away with running the game on a system a bit lower than Rockstar's planned 
 minimum spec. We've run it on a range of machines at both ends of the spectrum and were pleased 
 to see that it ran well at 640x480 on even 500MHz processors with 256MB of RAM. A lot depends on 
 the video card though, so if you're even considering playing the game on anything less than the 
 recommended spec, you better make sure you make up for the deficiencies in the video card department. 
 Although if you have a 128MB video card in a 500MHz machine there might be something wrong with 
 you.
  
  Apart from the streaming pop-in, the cutscenes tend to show off a few other small problems with 
 the graphics. Mitten-hands and some minor clipping are the worst offenders here but, as with most 
 other annoyances in the game, they're immediately cancelled out by more impressive features. In 
 the case of the cutscenes, the real stars are the script writers and voice actors. It's rare that 
 game dialogue carries any real emotional impact but nearly every scene in this game pulls it off. 
 The script it witty without being goofy and mature without being overly coarse. There is obscenity 
 in the game, of course, but it suits the story.
  
  But it's the voice actors who steal the show. I'd be curious to know how much of the profits from 
 GTA3 went in to hiring talent for the sequel. Nearly every member of the cast is a fairly well-known 
 personality in their own right and they all, without exception, voice their roles remarkably well. 
 Burt Reynolds, Luiz Guzman, Dennis Hopper, Gary Busey, Phillip Michael Thomas and a few others 
 all lend their talents to the game and really enhance the experience. Of course, Ray Liotta's voicing 
 of the main character is as perfect a job of casting and reading as I think anyone could expect.
 
  
  Where Grand Theft Auto 3 made good use of brand new music, Vice City offers a set of radio stations 
 that play over 100 tunes from the 80s. You'll hear songs from artists as diverse as Lionel Richie, 
 Wang Chung, Ozzy Osbourne and Run DMC. The music really helps to make the game work, much better 
 than any newly commissioned works could. The commercials and talk radio options on the dial are 
 humorous enough to stand on their own apart from the game. Paired with it, they offer the occasional 
 laugh and help to bring the game world to life.
  
  While the radio stations are great, most players will eventually try out the new MP3-driven radio 
 station. The setup for this is super easy. Without even referring to the manual or readme file, 
 I dove in to the directory, found a folder called MP3 and loaded it up with all my favorite hits 
 from the 80s. A little Police, a little Talking Heads, that song from Musical Youth (you know the 
 one) and I'm good to go. Once the tunes are in you'll see a radio station called MP3 Player on 
 your dial. Just tune in and listen to the songs you've put in the folder. They play the music make 
 me jump and run, after all.
  Finally, and let me assure you that Rockstar sees this one coming a mile away, we're still disappointed 
 that there's no multiplayer mode. I've finally come to buy into Rockstar's response that they won't 
 add multiplayer to the series until they can make it as engaging and interesting as the game's 
 single-player mode. Our only concern at that point is that Rockstar eventually does do something 
 new and exciting on the multiplayer front. If they're going to deny us something even as simple 
 as a four-player mayhem mode, what they finally come up with needs to be really, really impressive. 
 In the meantime, the nearly infinite playability of the title puts complaints about missing multiplayer 
 to rest.
  In the end, any criticism I can offer on this game is merely nitpicking. The occasional weaknesses 
 of the game are few and far between and the overall momentum of the game propels you past the dull 
 spots so quickly that you'll only begin to notice them once you start looking for things to criticize. 
 As a matter of personal taste, I think I'd prefer to play the game on the PS2 for the simple reason 
 that it feels more fun in a living room environment. (Plus it gives me something to do while the 
 wife is playing The Sims.) Kicked back on the couch with the surround sound turned way up, you'll 
 find that you're pulled in to the whole experience much more immediately than is perhaps possible 
 in a desktop format. Gamers who have more comfortable, EAX supported environments around their 
 PC will find it more difficult to favor the console version for these reasons. Still, the new additions 
 and control tweaks for the PC are slowly but surely tearing me away from the television. Heading 
 back to play the title on the PS2, I'm more aware of the frustrations of aiming and the lack of 
 a custom soundtrack. Those additions are powerful enough to almost justify playing both versions 
 of the game. While Vice City is a better title than its predecessor, it does lack a lot of the 
 surprise and discovery of the first title, at least in terms of design. I won't hold that against 
 Rockstar too much. After all, there's not much incentive to innovate when the previous game is 
 still selling like crazy. Still, the few additions they've made make Vice City a better (if not 
 as unexpected) a treat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkdrium2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 18, 2007 4:57 am PT
Review:  Pros : Highly addictive; amazing soundtrack; tons of variety; surprising game
  Cons : Glitches; bugs
  
  Gameplay - This is such an amazing game, there are many things to do 
 in Vice City. Roam around the city and cause mayhem, police trouble and etc.. Although there are 
 some known bugs/glitches. This game still pwns!
  
  Graphics - I only started to play this game on 2007, since graphic nowadays are very advanced. 
 I can forgive Vice City as the game was released in 2003 for PC, so I give it a 7. Great weathers, 
 city, cutscene animation.
  
  Sound - You kiddin', right?! They have the best soundtrack ever. Outstanding voice acting. But 
 the weapon sound is the problem, not that good though..
  
  Overall : This is an amazing game, I enjoyed this series the most than other GTA series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stakis321987
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 26, 2007 2:28 am PT
Review:  ONE OF THE BEST GAMES THERE IS AND THERE WILL EVER BE! IT'S AMAZING HOW THIS GAME FEATURES THE 80'S... THE 
 SCENARIO IS REALLY AUTHENTIC GIVING THE ATMOSPHERE OF A WAR BETWEEN DRUG BARONS. WITH ONE WORD THIS 
 GAME IS A REAL MASTERPIECE!!!!!!
  THE GAME'S MUSIC VARIES FROM CLASSIC DISCO SONGS SUCH AS ''DANCE HALL DAYS'' OR ''BILLY JEAN'' 
 TO HARD ROCK SONGS LIKE ''2 MINUTES TO MIDNIGHT'' .THE GAME ALSO HAS LOTS OF MISSIONS AS WELL AS 
 SUB-MISSIONS TO COMPLETE AND IT MANAGES TO AVOID ADOPTING THE STYLE OF GTA1 AND GTA2 BECAUSE YOU 
 START WORKING FOR A LOCAL LAWYER AND YOU END UP HAVING YOUR OWN INDUSTRIES. LAST BUT NOT LEAST THERE 
 ARE SO MANY THINGS TO DO
  THAT YOU WILL NEVER GET BORED!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 26, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  GTA: Vice City is a good game, about as good as GTAIII but with a new sauce over it, which makes 
 the game better by a little bit.
  
  GTA: Vice City is the same like any other GTA game, I'll explain it for you four people who don't 
 know what GTA is, you play somebody who goes on random killing spree's, kills everything he see's, 
 steals all cars he can see and chases away from police, got that? The game is great fun!
  
  Gameplay:
  Aiming is okay, standard WASD keys, more camera options, a new savehouse feature which 
 helps alot in some situations where you need to get to certain places.
  
  Graphics:
  Look better then the GTAIII graphics, probably because this game has brighter textures and GTAIII 
 was very sub-urban and dark, it looks like sunny Miami, and it looks great.
  
  Though, the characters design look good from distance, they have no facial expressions, their more 
 like those Adam and Phillips characters from South Park with clapping heads.
  
  The game is also rather small compared to GTA: SA and GTAIII, heck.. even GTA2, I was hoping I had 
 a bigger ground to settle on.
  
  Story:
  You're a gangsta dawg, and you have to go thru missions, mostly having you to assassinate people, 
 or get a deal done, or just kill people and chase people, or just drive people around.
  
  AI:
  Bad, people will let you shoot them in most situations, or they'll try to run away thinking 
 they'll get away, cops dumbfire at you, not really challenging until SWATS come up.
  
  Sound:
  Great music in this game to, probably the best from all GTA games, the style is great, 
 Miami rocks and stuff.
  
  Is it a good freeroaming game:
  Yep, better then GTAIII in many ways, but lacks in map to explore, which is dissapointing, if you 
 like GTA, or just freeroaming games in general, buy this game directly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaanus147
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 21, 2007 7:03 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto: Vice City is a awesome game. You play as Tommy Vercetti who just got out from 
 the big house. As you leave the jail you are sent to Vice City. Where a drug deal goes bad and 
 you have to start your crazy adventure. The gameplay of GTA: VC is solid. The controls are the same 
 as GTA3, which makes it very easy to control Tommy. There are many new feature, like you can't 
 carry all the guns on the same time, you can ride bikes and fly with a helicopter. The has the 
 80's setting. So you get real 80's music and clothing. The graphics are solid. The little details 
 are important, like when you fly near palms the palm leafs start moving from the helicopter choppers. 
 You always have choice in GTA. You don't have to do the main missions. You can go on a all city 
 rampage or start driving as a taxi driver. Grand Theft Auto: Vice City is a perfect game. It over 
 limitless hours of gameplay. If you haven't played it yet, then we have only one question. Where 
 the f**k have you lived dude? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThePunisherBR
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 18, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is very funny, with excellent music, storyline and adventure. The best about vice is 
 that you can do everything you cannot do in real life and the worst that you can get is losing 
 your weapons and end up in a hospital. The missions - except for those your have to control a mini 
 helicopter - are very funny, as they miss adrenaline with music. The more you play the more you 
 want to play!!!! to end, i suggest players to prefer this one to san andreas. Why?
  because the eighties is much more interesting, the missions are better, the characters and the 
 map too. What is good in san andreas? The inovantions, that, if brought to vice city - eliminating 
 those two boring missions - would make this game a 10, instead of a 9.4.
  That's all folks!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 12, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Story: Your Tommy Vercetti and you owe some money. As you try to pay back your debt you rise up 
 in the 80's world and build your own empire.
  
  Graphics: Gameplay &gt; Gameplay
  
  Audio: Funny radio stations, hilarious dialogue, Decent Voiceovers
  
  Missions: Sandbox, kill 
 bosses, pick up drugs, etc.
  
  Features: Its Grand Theft Auto, everything is possible
  
  Multiplayer: Only in Mods
  
  Requirements: Low
  
  Weapons: A range of weapons, eight 
 different types
  
  The Good: A great sequel to the new style of GTA
  
  The Bad: Some missions can get very frustrating
  
  The Ugly: Beating people to a pulp!
  
 
  Replay Ability: High
  
  The Bottom Line: Get this. It is better than GTA III in a few ways and you should play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tally_Ho
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 12, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  I first played this game in 2004. And I thought ''Wow, what a great game''... Well, I can still say 
 the same for it. The graphics&amp; sound are fantastic, the game itself isn't too hard to play. And 
 of course, it's fun! It took about 30 hours for me to finish it, including all the sidequests.
  
  I really don't understand those who say that this game is hard. Wtf?? If you don't know the controls 
 or if you just don't know how to play games (My point is if you're a jerk :lol: ) , maybe then is 
 hard. To me, this game is 'just right'!
  
  What's good: As I said before, great graphics and sound (nothing new!) , and great gameplay.
  What's 
 bad: It all depends on what game card you're running the game on :/
  
  A masterpiece of all car-games. I highly recommend it to everyone who likes GTA games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zel-duh
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 21, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Gta Vice city is a highly addictive game and you probly wont want to stop until you beat it to 
 the end. It has what every other gta game has to offer but this time with a few litle diffrent 
 details. The story line its self can take up to 15 hours to complete but thats not including all 
 the other sidequest's you can do in the game
  
  On the graphic level of the game , well it all depends on what game card your running the game 
 on. As for the sound value, well theres nothing really new and captivating about it. The Gameplay 
 on the other hand is great but the game is a port as we all know.
  
  If your not sure if this game is what your looking for you should simply borrow it from a friend. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taloskai
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 19, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Everyone keeps on talking about how good san andreas is. They need to wake up and play the older 
 games. Sure it may have more features, but more features don't mean a better game, setting, characters, 
 story, all of the above make a true game. The story was sweet. It was about a man named Tommy Verrcetti 
 and he just got released from jail. He goes to Vice CIty to oversee a drug deal but blows it. Read 
 a walkthrough if you want more. The Radio was truly KILLER. VCFR was my fav, it made me laugh so 
 hard. Even the songs really matched the time and the enviroment. What can I say about the gameplay, 
 its regular GTA style. The graphics aren't bad, i managed to use the custom skin option, hated 
 it. Overall i think Vice CIty is the one of the best games made. Screw San Andreas and bring in 
 VIce CIty!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 15, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto Vice City is a great GTA game. It is it's own game and stands up against 3, and 
 San Andreas.
  
  Vice City added a lot of new features to enhance the game. Such as a talking protoganist. Unlike 
 the quiet dude from 3. Buying properties and assets, making money races and new feaures to give 
 Vice City longevity.
  
  Vice City gave a style to the GTA series. 1986. The soundtrack and radio stations are great. Vice 
 City has a better soundtrack than San Andreas.
  
  What's always been nice in GTA is the freedom of expolration and different ways to get to point 
 a to point b. Rampages are nice as well as cheats to have massive carnage is very fun. The only 
 problem I mainly dislike about Vice City is the city is extremely flat and no elevation like GTA 
 3.
  
  Going inside buildings is great amd introduction of helicopters and motorcycles were very good 
 addtions to the GTA series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twisted14
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 15, 2007 3:45 am PT
Review:  Firstly the games story is great with many characters that have very well, unusual personalities. 
 Basically you play as Tommy Vercetti who arrives in Vice City and makes connections with people 
 so you can take over Vice City.
  
  Secondly, the graphics arent that great with the characters looking a bit blocky and out of shape 
 but it isnt a problem at all seeing as the colour in the game is very nice. Unlike GTA3 which 
 was dull (although it fit the mood of the game) Vice City is full of colour which fits the Miami 
 style of the city. The voice acting in the game is superb with some celebrities donating their 
 voices such as Ray Liotta (Tommy) . Rockstar has done a good job in making the cut-scenes come to 
 life.
  
  Well the story is short and it wont take you very long to do but then there are all the other 
 little things to do to get 100% completion. So there is plenty to do in Vice City to keep you occupied 
 for a while such as buying all the properties and completing the assets, be an ambulance driver, 
 a taxi driver and a pizza delivery boy, put out fires and do some vigilante missions. A couple 
 of big improvements are the addition of motorbikes and helicopters which are very fun to drive.
 
  
  Last but not least the radio. The radio stations on this game are superb. With some great classic 
 80s music and the hilarious things that they have to say on the talk shows make driving more enjoyable.
 
  
  Overall this is a really good game and if you havent played it yet Play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marcinkonys
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 3:20 am PT
Review:  Throughout the nine years since the first Grand Theft Auto game hit the shelves, the series has 
 improved upon greatly. Kicking off with the first 2D iteration released back in 1998, many games 
 and expansions were created, each adding more and more gameplay features. Four years after GTA1, 
 the series has become three-dimensional, and totally overhauled the look of the classic. Vice City 
 is the second 3D game - adding many new features, yet still having some flaws, it stands out as 
 a faithful sequel to one of the most popular franchises in the world.
  
  Knowledge of the past games story isnt necessary when playing Vice City, as it doesnt kick off 
 right after GTA3. You play as Tommy Vercetti. Tommy, released from prison, is sent to Vice City 
 by a mafia boss, Sonny Forelli, to participate in a drug deal without even thinking of the subsequences. 
 He and the others suddenly get double-crossed, and Tommy barely makes it out alive, leaving getting 
 the money back to Sonny his main objective in the game.
  
  Those who have played Grand Theft Auto before know just how open-ended the game is. Being able 
 to do what you want, whenever you want was awesome in the previous installments, and is even more 
 fun in Vice City, with new vehicles and weapons available. For the first time, you have the ability 
 to drive motorbikes, each having different strengths and weaknesses. The amount of flyable vehicles 
 is a lot bigger than in the previous installment, as well, varying from skimmers to military helicopters. 
 Unfortunately, you still can't pilot planes, although there are quite some of them in-game.
  
  There are around one hundred drive-able vehicles in total in Vice City, from motorbikes and 
 cars to choppers and tiny RC cars. Each of them varies in handling and speed  turn with a fast 
 car at top speed and you may easily spin off at a corner. This can be even more frustrating with 
 motorbikes. Until you get used to the controls, anyway. If youve a wheel collecting dust nearby, 
 you might want to try it out as Vice City supports wheel steering. Frankly, although its fun driving 
 along the city with a speedy sports car, youve to change from keyboard to wheel controls often 
 as you enter and exit vehicles.
  
  Youll meet lots of different characters throughout the campaign, like Lance Vance, a guy in want 
 of revenge to the double-crossers who killed his brother Vic during the drug deal, or Kent Paul, 
 a youth who works at the music business, yet claims to be a criminal mastermind. At the start of 
 the game, youll do dirty deeds for them to get cash, but later into the game, Tommy decides to 
 take over the whole city. These latter missions tend to be the longer and more original ones.
 
  
  Overall, Vice City has a quite lengthy campaign. It takes around ten to fifteen hours to pass the 
 core missions, but the game doesnt finish here, as you have lots of side stuff to do  vigilante 
 missions, taxi missions, pizza delivery, and more, each one rewarding you with various abilities 
 after you pass a certain amount of levels. For example, after dropping off 100 taxi fares youre 
 able to make the taxi jump in the air; reach level 12 in ambulance missions and your sprint will 
 be infinite, and so on. Some of the missions can be pretty tough, like pizza delivery, as its 
 easy to fall off the bike, but knowing you get 50 extra health points, its definitely worth it.
 
  
  The packages from Grand Theft Auto 3 made their way to Vice City, too, and theyre still as rewarding 
 as ever, providing Tommy with different weapons, vehicles and armor after collecting each tenth. 
 There is a total of one hundred of them scattered all over the map, resulting 10 rewards after 
 collecting the last one. The latter rewards are the best ones by far, as you get free access to 
 the Hunter and the Rhino tank  the two most powerful vehicles in the game. Collecting all the 
 packages without a map is pretty much impossible, as theyre often in the deepest corners of the 
 city you would never even think to look at - thats where the map you get with the game comes to 
 use.
  
  Though to pass the game completely, and I mean, COMPLETELY, youll have to do lots of things, including 
 the ones listed above, plus many more. Its tough as hell, but the rewards are more than awesome, 
 including infinite ammo, twice the amount of health and armor, and more. To see your progress with 
 the game, theres a stat screen available in the in-game menu. Percentage of the game passed aside, 
 it shows some useless, yet fun to read things, as well, like the amount of people youve wasted, 
 tires shot, etc.
  
  Sound plays a huge role in VC, starting off with the well done voice acting, finishing with the 
 downright hilarious radio stations. Theyre still funny as hell, and make driving from mission 
 to mission much more enjoyable - youll find tons of 80s music to listen to, featuring Ozzy Osbournes 
 Bark at the Moon, Blondies Atomic, and more - each station plays different types of music, 
 and even has its own DJ. Theres even a public radio with its host, Maurice Chavez, who talks with 
 famous people in its show Press the Issue, guaranteeing lots of funny moments.
  
  Vice City uses an updated graphics engine seen in GTA3. Sure, the textures arent so hi-res, nor 
 are the models too hi-poly, but thanks to the crazy draw distance, youll have numerous opportunities 
 to indulge the whole beauty of the visuals. The game certainly looks better than GTA 3 did, having 
 great lighting and cool weather effects. The first city (one you start the game at) may look a 
 bit better graphically, because the whole color theme is more appealing, whereas the second one 
 may look dull - VCs local gangs abode in poorer parts of Vice.
  
  There are two main gangs in Vice City  the Cubans and the Haitians, which are both easily recognizable 
 by their stick-out clothing and exotic cars. You rarely see gang members cruising the streets one 
 by one, as they mostly appear in groups, and they attack each other on sight. Some of the story 
 missions even involve you being sort of a double agent, as on one mission you may help the Haitians 
 defend against the Cubans attack, whereas on the next one, youre helping the Cubans.
  
  The whole mission design, although not too visibly, has developed from GTA3 - you wont see the 
 same old mission layout as you did in the previous game as much in Vice City, like picking up a 
 car, picking up an NPC, going to a location, killing some foes, re-spraying the car and getting 
 back to the extraction point. Sure, some missions have this design in VC, too, but they dont really 
 get too boring. Moreover, as you get deeper into the games story, youll experience pretty much 
 all the games features  there are missions which involve you blow up a building by planting bombs 
 at certain locations of it using little RC planes, tracing a limo using a chopper and taking photos 
 of people from a safe location, etc. The diversity is pretty big, and will surely keep you entertained 
 throughout the whole game.
  
  The save system hasnt changed all that much from the previous game  while not on a mission, you 
 can save your progress by collecting cassette markers near buildings. Vice City is a big town, 
 hence it sure wouldnt be too easy having to drive all the way to another corner of the city after 
 every mission. Thats why you now have the ability to buy certain properties. While some of them 
 dont cost as much, purchasing others will really slim your wallet. Not unless you want to actually 
 pass the game, as having a little amount of properties prevents you from accessing some of the 
 final missions.
  
  So overall, Vice City is an amazingly fun game to play - whether youre a Grand Theft Auto veteran, 
 or new to the series, the open-ended gameplay, funny radio stations and crazy amount of missions 
 will keep you sucked in for hours and hours. Whats even better is that the requirements for it 
 are extremely low, hence unless you care more about graphics over gameplay, youll find VC a great 
 game to try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rai8ers4lyfe
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 6, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome, it's based in Miami Florida during the ninties where coke dealers were king. 
 This game kind of reminded me of scarface but not as bad and gory because the graphics were still 
 not so sophisticated. Tommy Verceti is a boss in this game, he wants to get to the top and he wont 
 let anyone get in his way, thanks to this motivation the gameplay for this game is extremely enjoyable 
 and will provide hours of entertainment for any Grand Theft Auto lover. Sadly the graphics in this 
 game are still horrible, but the greatness of the overall game makes up for it. The sounds in this 
 game are great too especially with the wide array of songs you can choose from that play in the 
 multiple radio stations which you can listen to while driving. Everything about this game is awesome 
 so you should go pick it up at a near by gamestop, or ebay... just don't let your mom know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertoleyva
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  malgasto unos minutos de mi tiempo en escribir esto.......... no se por q?!
  a estas alturas sabemos todos lo genial q es este juego, creo q es un pelin mejor q el gta3, pero 
 apenas un pelin, beuno, quizas 2 pelines, y a lo mejor es porq el personaje habla, porq la ciudad 
 se ve mas amena o alegre, o quizas porq como debia ser, pero no siempre ocurre, el sucesor ha superado 
 al primero, y es el caso de &eacute; ste y de san andreas, en fin, cualquiera q juegue este clasico, 
 quedara encantado.
  
  y luego si le acomodais un mod, sera aun mejor, y si le pones tu musica en mp3.. dios... q bueno 
 es...
  
  sin mas: genial 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luziorava
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 2, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Who didn't hallucinate back when GTA III came out, breaking any limits of freedom, addiction and 
 fun you'd ever imagine? Well, I did. Don't know you, but I did. And when Vice City was announced, 
 many of us thought Will it be better than 3? Here's what I think.
  
  First of all, the gameplay. Vice City doesn't necessarily reinvent the formula like GTA 3 did, 
 but it has made enough big changes to make you enjoy it possibly even more than its predecessor. 
 For example, now there are more than 20 weapons, ranging from brass knuckles to chainsaws (!) , 
 from Pythons to Uzis and from M60s to MINIGUNS!!!!! Also, now there's a wide variety of vehicles, 
 including choppers and bikes. A detail that bummed me is that you still couldn't swim, but this 
 changes with total freedom of riding boats. Also, it's way shorter than 3.
  
  Second, the graphics. Vice City definitely puts 3's ones to shame, with very nice details on characters, 
 buildings and more. What I still don't like quite a lot are the in-game cut-scenes. I hope this 
 changes for IV.
  
  Finally, the sound. Quite possibly the most superb detail in this game is its soundtrack, full 
 of 80's elite groups of music. (Remember, you'll hate its music if you hate the 80s, but IT'S MY 
 OPINION.) Also, the DJs will always have some absolutely funny things to say. Voice acting is top-notch, 
 with special mention for Ray Liotta.
  
  In definitive, Vice City is extremely close in beating GTA 3, San Andreas is still the king. You'll 
 enjoy it just as much as you have enjoyed San Andreas, Stories or 3. If you can handle its violence, 
 please make sure you don't lose one of the greatest games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rottenjoe
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 31, 2007 3:27 am PT
Review:  you start here in Liberty City and you are Tommy Vercetti who is sent to Vice City by his old boss, 
 Sonny Forelli. So you and him talk and he says that the city is taken over by tons of gangs, and 
 politicians and he wants you tto take it back by getting the gangs and the polticians out.
  
  This game is filled with tons of open ended missions, tons of roaming that will allow to commandeer 
 motorbikes, cars, trucks, TANKS, HELIcopters, powerboats, golfbuggy
  
  this game if filled with realism and funny tricks, and nice music if you want, You'll be AMAZED 
 as you sweep through Vice City's FM dial. If you get into trouble, you can tune into some driving 
 rock, or some crucial electro, or maybe you want to slow down with some sweet soul, andhere will 
 always be some great romantic anthems, this game is filled with all kinds of music making this 
 game even better.
  
  With tons of adventures, open ended missions and quests, a great story line, deceint graphics, 
 tons of automobiles , and helicopters, lots of realism and thought put into this game, This game 
 is one of the best Open game filled with Roaming out there, or just the best Action Adventure game.
 
  Grand Theft Auto: Vice City is the most diverse and ambitious piece of interactive entertainment 
 yet created. This game is recommended to everyone that has a PC or a PS2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonbesto
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 22, 2007 12:14 am PT
Review:  I gotta tell you, Rockstar really put an effort in making this game! Its better than GTA 3! duh
 
  
  -GRAPHICS
  Although Rockstar hasn't improved the human graphics (GTA 4 should improve or else!) The environment 
 of Vice city looks really good!
  
  -NEW THINGS YOU GOTTA LOVE
  New cars! more destructible!
  You can use boats more often!
  TANKS!!!
  Motorcycles (2 wheels 
 rocks!)
  New characters! (Tommy Vercetti is still the main character though)
  At least now the game shows the map and its really helpful unlike GTA 3!
  
  -SOUND
  Damn 
 the radio is freakin' sweet! It has that american spanish FMs that you always wanna listen to.
 
  
  -GAMEPLAY
  New missions! It has a better, more interesting story than GTA 3.
  Want weapons to kill? You got a whole package of weapons here in GTAVC! Now they include flamethrowers 
 and knifes!!!
  
  -OVERALL
  Awesome game! you should buy it no doubt about it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 26, 2007 5:58 am PT
Review:  Everyone likes the GTA series. Now, Vice City was the best game in the GTA series untill GTA San 
 Andreas.&amp; I'll tell you why... The graphics are a little better than in GTA III, but they are 
 not that good as the ones in Mafia. But there are some beautifull landscapes &amp; great textured 
 items, so you'll forget that they're not perfect. The sound is simply amazing, the best chapter would 
 be the music, which introduces you in that spanish-american atmosphere, although I prefer the music 
 from VROCK (Lazlow rulesssss!) The gameplay is similar to the one in GTA III, just that they are 
 more cars &amp; motorcycles, more weapons, more things to do. There are more various missions, plus 
 purchasable properties,&amp; your own gang. The story is really nice &amp; tensioned,&amp; also 
 very very funny! For example, with Lance, Phil or Kent Paul, you always have fun! The atmosphere is 
 simply great, even better than the one in San Andreas, you really feel in Miami (cause that's Vice 
 City) . Enjoy shootouts, car chases, stunts, races with sportcars or bikes, robberies, taking over villas 
 &amp; properties, hellicopter &amp; boat shootouts, flying a RC hellicopter &amp; blowing up a building, plus 
 much more! Play it! You'll love it!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabeticDood
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto Vice City was my second GTA game I had ever played. I really enjoyed this game. 
 Threes tons of stuff to do. Its just like any GTA game but the city of Vice City was amazing. 
 I really enjoyed this city of Liberty City. Its a very big city with lots of things to do. I think 
 the gameplay in this game is very good. Its pretty much the same to every other GTA. Steal cars, 
 Do some missions, look for some secret packages. The one thing I was glad to really see was the 
 adding of motorcycles. I enjoyed riding on a street bike around Vice City. I think the 80s take 
 was really cool. The sound in this game blew me away. If you stop your car at a red light youll 
 hear some voices from the people talking on the streets. Gun fights sounded like gun fights. Voice 
 acting was incredible I couldnt believe how good it was. The value of this game you should spend 
 50 but the cool thing is, is that its an older game so you could pick it up for 10 dollars at 
 least. I really enjoyed this game it is one of my favorite GTAs I really love going back and just 
 driving around Vice City. I really think any GTA fan should pick up this game. And if youre just 
 getting into GTA this is the one for you to start on. Enjoy ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dom84ts
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 19, 2007 3:13 am PT
Review:  Finally they have reintroduced the motorbikes!! :) 
  
  Better graphics better sound and great the idea that you can put your own MP3 on the radio than 
 others radio station!
  
  Also here the game is the same! Make money doing missions or destroying the city! Innovative the 
 fact that during the mission you can buy discos, palaces and other things! Buying them you will 
 earn money from their business!
  In this version is possible to drive airplanes! have fun!
  
  Some missions are amazing and funny! Strange things to do! (I MISS OLD GTA!! I MISS GOURANGA! 
 do you remember? hehe)
  
  ----&gt; Next review Gta : San Andreas 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carbon07
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 12, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  GTA Vice City really is one of the best games ever, and in my opinion, the best of all the GTA's. 
 Yes I liked San Andreas and the other's, but the whole 80's style/feel of Vice City is just something 
 I cant find in any other game (maybe except that Scarface game, which is also excellent) , and I've 
 had Vice City for a few years now. I got a Playstation 2 not long ago, but when I got Vice City, 
 I only had a PC. It was also my first introduction to what I'd call 'modern games' (I'd gave up 
 on gaming for a while and only had a Playstation 1 before I got a PC then a Playstation 2) so it 
 really blew me away graphically/sound/gameplay wise, everything.
  
  Whats so good about it then? Well, after GTA 3 (also a great game) there have been more than a 
 few improvements. Like being able to fly, more licensed music on the soundtrack (I love the 80s 
 soundtrack) , longer storyline, some graphic improvment, etc. The graphics arent great by todays 
 standards, but they are good none the less.
  
  You play Tommy Vercetti, who's just got out of jail and is sent to Miami by his old boss. Some 
 of the voice acting for the characters in this game are by hollywood names, and its just excellent 
 - adds to the whole 'cinematic' feel of the game (it's kinda like Scarface, the movie) . Needless 
 to say the long story line will keep you playing for months, also the amount of exploring for the 
 side missions will keep you entertained for a long time. The game has varied mission's, keeping 
 with the GTA style of go here, drive there, kill this guy, deliver this, etc. This style of gameplay 
 never actually gets boring however, because of the funny things that happen along the way.
  
  Can't really say much more, or praise this game enough. If you don't have it or havent played 
 it already, why? Its been out a while and whether you have a PC or Playstation 2, just buy the 
 game, you will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vjetes
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 11, 2007 12:56 am PT
Review:  Discounting Grand Theft Auto 3, there's no other game that offers anything like the experience 
 you'll have with Grand Theft Auto: Vice City. The game of fast cars and ruthless criminals packs 
 more action and excitement into the first few hours than can be found in the entirety of most games. 
 Released almost a full year after the previous version (and right during E3 -- thanks, Rockstar) , 
 there are a number of compelling, albeit minor, changes to the model that captivated us so much 
 last year. I played through a lot of the game on the PS2 and have been hard at work this past week 
 playing through it once again on the PC.
  
  For those of you who've already experienced the joys of the previous game on the PC or PS2, let 
 me spell out the major differences and improvements in store for Vice City. The story is much stronger 
 this time around with a fully-fleshed out protagonist. The missions themselves are often longer 
 and sometimes involve more kinds of gameplay than before. Buildings play a bigger role as well 
 as the game permits players not only to enter structures but also buy them, opening up a new range 
 of missions and rewards. Add to that more weapons, vehicles and a host of other surprises and you'll 
 see that Vice City raises the bar for the series. The only downside is that the overall design 
 of the game doesn't have the same impact that the previous game did. Hey, if it ain't broke...
 
  
  If you've played Vice City on the PS2 there are fewer surprises in store. The two games are wholly 
 identical in terms of content (making things a bit easier on our strategy guide guys) . All the 
 missions, bonuses and characters are completely identical to those in the console version. But 
 the PC version benefits from better graphics, a slight tweak in the controls, a custom MP3-driven 
 radio station and a customizable character skin.
  
  If you've never played either game on any system, you're in for a real treat. Vice City tells a 
 much tighter, more personal story that GTA3. While the anonymous nature of the character in the 
 previous game made it a bit easier to loose yourself in the role, the main character in Vice City 
 is tied to the overall narrative much more tightly. The story plays out in a series of cutscenes 
 that set up the action of each individual mission.
  
  The game takes place in the 1980s, before the events in GTA3. You play as Tommy Vercetti, a gangster 
 who's just finished a 15-year stint in prison. Once he's out his bosses send him down to Florida's 
 Vice City as the point man for some new operations. Once there Tommy teams up with a shifty lawyer 
 (think Fredo) and the two begin plans for a big drug score. Once the drugs and the money disappear, 
 Tommy finds himself fighting to discover who's cheated him while fending off the existing criminal 
 elements of Vice City. As you might imagine, this type of scenario does involve a fair bit of violence. 
 What you might not expect is how the game can walk a line between humor and horror while presenting 
 all this material.
  
  Vice City itself is a fully developed island town that lives and breathes like few other game settings 
 before it. Cars drive up and down the streets, boats ply the water ways, news copters zip by overhead 
 and everywhere you turn the citizens of Vice City are going about their business. The crooks, cops 
 and citizens of the city are all capable of a level of dynamic behaviors. But even if you're not 
 shooting at them, they still have agendas. You'll see rival gangs fighting each other in the streets 
 and traffic accidents escalating in to fist fights.
  
  And while you'll spend plenty of time walking amongst these encounters, the real heart of the game 
 is stealing cars and driving from crime to crime. The list of cars available in the game is far 
 too long for us to examine each of them in turn but some general comments should give you a good 
 impression of what to expect. You'll find lots of small sporty cars and lots of large family sedans 
 and wagons with plenty of gradations in between. Large delivery vans, city buses and trucks give 
 you a slower but more damage-resistant ride. It's just what you got in GTA3, there's just more 
 of it this time around.
  
  Although it's not new for the series, I should probably say a few words about the rules of the 
 road at this point. Rockstar's struck a great balance between offering you consequences for your 
 actions and letting you run around without worrying about the real rules of the road. Cops aren't 
 too worried about speeding, running red lights or even causing crashes. This keeps the pace of 
 the game high and also ensures that, when you really do do something to cheese off the cops, it 
 becomes a dynamic part of the game rather than an inconvenience. The pace of the game is also helped 
 in that crashes aren't as catastrophic as they might be in real life; you can take a few hits and 
 keep on going.
  
  Getting back to the vehicles themselves, the motorcycles are a fantastic addition for the series, 
 not just in terms of the cool factor but also in terms of some new gameplay opportunities. At the 
 most basic level, the four types of motorcycles found in the game offer a really fast and nimble 
 mode of transport. Zipping in and out of tight spots in traffic is much easier from the seat of 
 one of these two-wheeled demons than from the driver's seat of your sedan. (A cute little scooter, 
 called the **** is included for your velociphobes.) You can shoot ahead of you while on the motorcycle 
 which makes them a great vehicle for the game's chase sequences.
  
  Tons of ramps are laid out all across the city. While they're placed fairly obviously, they never 
 seem terribly blatant or out of place with the rest of the environment. Naturally some of the placements 
 are a bit too obvious ( what's that giant ramp doing pointing out over the river? ) but for the 
 most part, the ramps are positioned unobtrusively. Once you get a helicopter, you'll even begin 
 to see how many ramps there are on the roofs of buildings. Quite a few of these are laid out in 
 courses, letting you ramp from one building to the next across large sections of the city. While 
 the motorcycles let you tilt up or down for some of the trickier stunts, you can take most of the 
 jumps in a car or on a bike.
  
  There are a lot more boats this time around and they're more often the focus of missions. You'll 
 be called on to take part in boat races, boat theft, and boat destruction missions throughout the 
 course of the game. Completing certain mission strands will even grant you respawning boats at 
 particular locations. The boating model is slick with just the right amounts of drifting and sliding 
 to make water seem distinct from pavement. The only really difficult part of driving a boat is 
 getting on and off without falling off the dock.
  
  Which brings me to one of our pet peeves -- namely that you can't swim. I wouldn't mind so much 
 if the game weren't set on a pair of islands. As such you're frequently near the water and there 
 are plenty of times that you'll find yourself drowning to death three feet from shore. It's particularly 
 frustrating when it comes right before the end of a mission. Rockstar's explanation that Gangsters 
 don't swim seems to dodge the issue a bit.
  
  And although they're not available until later in the game, planes and helicopters are also on 
 the menu. You'll unlock these as the result of completing certain missions or buying certain properties. 
 Some missions even require you to use these vehicles. But to be honest, once I managed to secure 
 a few helicopters for my own use, the PS2 version lost a bit of its structure for me. But that's 
 merely me responding to the wonderfully open-ended nature of the game. For almost a full week, 
 I rarely even bothered to take on any new missions, preferring instead to soar high above the city 
 or swoop down narrow streets in my nimble copter.
  
  The control system as conceived on the PS2 was quite convenient and the PC version maintains the 
 efficiency throughout. But the PC controls surpass those of the PS2 in a few key areas while falling 
 short only in one admittedly crucial area. (While you can easily replicate the established control 
 scheme with a gamepad, I prefer to focus on the new keyboard controls in reviewing the game.) The 
 translation of the controls is pretty straightforward. The game comes with configurations for both 
 the WASD and arrow key style of play. There are a few inconveniences here (like the sprint key 
 being mapped to the right shift key, a problem for us WASDers) but since you can set up the controls 
 any way you want, you can easily change this yourself.
  
  Mouse support is probably the biggest story here. Fanboy preferences aside, being able to use the 
 mouse to aim your weapons makes this a much easier, more convenient game. I'm not knocking the 
 Dual Shock system but the analog aiming definitely takes second place to the mouse for me. For 
 those who aren't quite familiar with the difference, the aiming on the PS2 is handled with the 
 analog stick. The centered position represents no movement of the reticle while a full press in 
 any direction starts moving the reticle in that direction. The mouse allows for more precise controls 
 as the reticle stops moving once the mouse stops moving.
  
  The new aiming controls make some of the missions much easier. Sniping Haitians from a distant 
 rooftop or shooting fools from the skid of a helicopter is much simpler this time around. Those 
 two missions took several tries on the gamepad; I got through them both on the first try with the 
 mouse.
  
  But driving with the mouse is, as the French say, le crap. It uses the same scheme as the PS2 aiming 
 controls: the mouse moves away from center and the car turns in proportion to the amount you moved 
 your mouse. Having to move the mouse back to center to go straight again is a bit of a pain. Perhaps 
 if I laid out a grid on my desk.... The alternative of course is forcing the player to keep moving 
 the mouse to stay in a turn. And my desk isn't big enough for some of the really hard turns I've 
 needed to make.
  
  It's better then to go with the default keyboard steering. While it doesn't offer the same incremental 
 control that analog inputs provide, the thoughtful use of small, short taps almost duplicates the 
 finer controls available with analog devices. Again, as I said at the start, this could be fixed 
 with the use of a gamepad, but then you're going to lose the mouse control or be forced to switch 
 back and forth every time you get in to a car.
  
  Besides getting in and out of cars, you'll also be able to get in and out of many of the city's 
 buildings. Vice City has a number of locations that you can explore, from police stations to mansions 
 to shopping malls. There are even lots of missions that take you inside one or more of these structures. 
 While there's a brief load as you move in or out of some buildings, the rest of the game continues 
 outside. You can look at the window of your first hotel, for instance, and see the traffic passing 
 by on the street. When you step out, that's the traffic you'll see.
  
  You can also buy a lot of the properties in the game. You'll acquire some properties as a result 
 of finishing particular missions. We can't really get in to those without giving away some key 
 story points, but you will find yourself set up with a few choice pads around the city. You can 
 use these buildings as save spots, naturally, but you can also use many of them to store extra 
 vehicles. I've got a hotel on the north side of town packed with various police and FBI cars, for 
 instance, and a mansion with a fleet of sports cars. Some buildings give you even more mission 
 opportunities.
  
  While there is a definite core story in the game, you're pretty free to take on extra side missions 
 that support the main story without necessarily advancing it. This gives you a chance to go and 
 try something else if you hit a roadblock in the main story path. Sometimes a little time away 
 from a particularly difficult mission (and the missions here are a bit more difficult than in the 
 previous game) is all you need to bring a fresh perspective to the problem. In this way, Vice City 
 offers almost limitless playability. While you won't necessarily stumble upon any significant content, 
 you'll be just as happy spending odd hours driving around looking for the small rewards scattered 
 throughout the game.
  
  Apart from the vehicle missions that put the player in the role of ambulance driver, police officer 
 and even pizza delivery guy, the game doesn't offer the same kind of dynamic story-telling and 
 quests that worked so well in a game like Pirates!. But it makes up for this with the kind of depth 
 of story-telling that's just not possible in a purely dynamic game. The missions here can be much 
 longer and comprise multiple parts. On the one hand, this makes for much more interesting and engaging 
 gameplay. On the other hand it can require a bit of backtracking if you fail. Fortunately the new 
 game puts a taxi cab right outside your recovery point (hospital or police station) and takes you 
 right back to your uncompleted mission.
  
  If you can't tell from the screenshots, the visuals are breathtaking. Vice City differs from Liberty 
 City in that it at least gives the appearance of being somewhat clean. There's a pastel glow to 
 nearly everything that hides the nastiness that lies beneath. High rises, sprawling golf courses, 
 industrial ports and a host of other locales are all rendered with fantastic detail and fit in 
 well with each other. The transitions between particular areas and neighborhoods of the city are 
 seamless and very natural. The weather and time of day effects are brilliant; you can feel the 
 warmth of the sunrise or the dampness of a thunderstorm in the colors they use.
  
  If you've got a fast enough car and a straight enough road, you're bound to see some of the content 
 popping in. Pedestrians appearing in front of you aren't such a big deal. It's the cops on the 
 street and the rocks in the ocean that are the biggest problems. Luckily the problems with this 
 type of streamed content are rare. Also on the subject of going fast, I'm glad to see that Rockstar 
 has done away with the irritating blur effect that comes as the default graphics mode on the PS2.
 
  
  Once you get your hands on a helicopter, you can take to the skies and see just how good the draw 
 distance is. At the higher altitudes you lose some of the details but that's a small price to pay 
 for seeing the entire city laid out below you. Once up in the air, you may notice that there are 
 some huge areas of the city that never really get featured quite as they ought to. But that's like 
 complaining that you didn't get soup with an eight course meal.
  
  Again, having played GTA3, it's the little details that impress me most in the sequel. You can 
 see the back of Tommy's shirt fluttering as he drives down the street on a motorcycle. Another 
 nice touch is that the hood of your car will fly off once it raises up. (In the previous game, 
 the hood being up was part of a distinct damage state. You had to damage your car even more if 
 you wanted it to come off.)
  
  The smooth frame rate and stunning visuals are even more impressive when you consider the overall 
 stability of the game. Where GTA3 definitely took some knocks for performance, so far we've yet 
 to have any technical problems at all with our versions. I've had a small bit of trouble getting 
 my Audigy card to work but with a game this dense, that's only a very minor annoyance. I'm soothed 
 by the incredibly quick load times. On the PS2, I could always count on a little sandwich-time 
 while the game loaded up. On the PC the game loads in less than a tenth of the time it takes on 
 the PS2.
  
  Overall, the system requirements are quite reasonable. In fact, the game is so well designed that 
 you can probably even get away with running the game on a system a bit lower than Rockstar's planned 
 minimum spec. We've run it on a range of machines at both ends of the spectrum and were pleased 
 to see that it ran well at 640x480 on even 500MHz processors with 256MB of RAM. A lot depends on 
 the video card though, so if you're even considering playing the game on anything less than the 
 recommended spec, you better make sure you make up for the deficiencies in the video card department. 
 Although if you have a 128MB video card in a 500MHz machine there might be something wrong with 
 you.
  
  Apart from the streaming pop-in, the cutscenes tend to show off a few other small problems with 
 the graphics. Mitten-hands and some minor clipping are the worst offenders here but, as with most 
 other annoyances in the game, they're immediately cancelled out by more impressive features. In 
 the case of the cutscenes, the real stars are the script writers and voice actors. It's rare that 
 game dialogue carries any real emotional impact but nearly every scene in this game pulls it off. 
 The script it witty without being goofy and mature without being overly coarse. There is obscenity 
 in the game, of course, but it suits the story.
  
  But it's the voice actors who steal the show. I'd be curious to know how much of the profits from 
 GTA3 went in to hiring talent for the sequel. Nearly every member of the cast is a fairly well-known 
 personality in their own right and they all, without exception, voice their roles remarkably well. 
 Burt Reynolds, Luiz Guzman, Dennis Hopper, Gary Busey, Phillip Michael Thomas and a few others 
 all lend their talents to the game and really enhance the experience. Of course, Ray Liotta's voicing 
 of the main character is as perfect a job of casting and reading as I think anyone could expect.
 
  
  Where Grand Theft Auto 3 made good use of brand new music, Vice City offers a set of radio stations 
 that play over 100 tunes from the 80s. You'll hear songs from artists as diverse as Lionel Richie, 
 Wang Chung, Ozzy Osbourne and Run DMC. The music really helps to make the game work, much better 
 than any newly commissioned works could. The commercials and talk radio options on the dial are 
 humorous enough to stand on their own apart from the game. Paired with it, they offer the occasional 
 laugh and help to bring the game world to life.
  
  While the radio stations are great, most players will eventually try out the new MP3-driven radio 
 station. The setup for this is super easy. Without even referring to the manual or readme file, 
 I dove in to the directory, found a folder called MP3 and loaded it up with all my favorite hits 
 from the 80s. A little Police, a little Talking Heads, that song from Musical Youth (you know the 
 one) and I'm good to go. Once the tunes are in you'll see a radio station called MP3 Player on 
 your dial. Just tune in and listen to the songs you've put in the folder. They play the music make 
 me jump and run, after all. What did you think of GTA: Vice City, Spaz? Finally, and let me assure 
 you that Rockstar sees this one coming a mile away, we're still disappointed that there's no multiplayer 
 mode. I've finally come to buy into Rockstar's response that they won't add multiplayer to the 
 series until they can make it as engaging and interesting as the game's single-player mode. Our 
 only concern at that point is that Rockstar eventually does do something new and exciting on the 
 multiplayer front. If they're going to deny us something even as simple as a four-player mayhem 
 mode, what they finally come up with needs to be really, really impressive. In the meantime, the 
 nearly infinite playability of the title puts complaints about missing multiplayer to rest.
  
  Closing Comments
  In the end, any criticism I can offer on this game is merely nitpicking. 
 The occasional weaknesses of the game are few and far between and the overall momentum of the game 
 propels you past the dull spots so quickly that you'll only begin to notice them once you start 
 looking for things to criticize. As a matter of personal taste, I think I'd prefer to play the 
 game on the PS2 for the simple reason that it feels more fun in a living room environment. (Plus 
 it gives me something to do while the wife is playing The Sims.) Kicked back on the couch with 
 the surround sound turned way up, you'll find that you're pulled in to the whole experience much 
 more immediately than is perhaps possible in a desktop format. Gamers who have more comfortable, 
 EAX supported environments around their PC will find it more difficult to favor the console version 
 for these reasons. Still, the new additions and control tweaks for the PC are slowly but surely 
 tearing me away from the television. Heading back to play the title on the PS2, I'm more aware 
 of the frustrations of aiming and the lack of a custom soundtrack. Those additions are powerful 
 enough to almost justify playing both versions of the game. While Vice City is a better title than 
 its predecessor, it does lack a lot of the surprise and discovery of the first title, at least 
 in terms of design. I won't hold that against Rockstar too much. After all, there's not much incentive 
 to innovate when the previous game is still selling like crazy. Still, the few additions they've 
 made make Vice City a better (if not as unexpected) a treat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lethalscorpion
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 4, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  Yes , most of us want to start our lives all over again , but it&acute; s impossible to go back 
 and change stuff . But you can start GTA : Vice City all over again . So , my friend , if for some 
 reason you have put GTA : Vice City on a shelf , bring it down from there and install it . There&acute; s 
 always something you coulda done otherwise during your first time gameplay , you are alot more 
 experienced now , you know what&acute; s coming and what every mission is about .
  You could also try getting 100 % all by yourself .
  Play and have fun ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  To say that Grand Theft Auto: Vice City had some big shoes to fill is an understatement; we're 
 talking about the sequel to what's arguably the greatest action game ever, Grand Theft Auto III, 
 a game that not only revolutionized a franchise, but truth to be told, revolutionized the entire 
 gaming industry. Vice City may not be as revolutionary as it's predecessor, but it still manages 
 to deliver everything that was good from GTA III, and much more. To sum it up, bigger, badder and 
 better, Vice City improves on every aspect of it's predecessor, to stand out as a true masterpiece.
 
  
  As I mentioned before, Vice City isn't as big of a change from GTA III as GTA III was from the 
 previous two entries in the series. The basic game mechanics are the same and the way the game 
 is structured is also the same. You'll be set loose on a free open ended world, you'll work your 
 way up the power ladder, working for several bosses until you eventually own the city, all the 
 while being free to wreak as much havoc on Vice City as you see fit. All the traditional side missions 
 (ambulance, taxi, firetruck, vigilante, rampages, unique jumps, hidden packages, off-road vehicle 
 missions) are here as well, alongside new types of side missions, such as the Pizza boy mission, 
 the hotring races, the rifle range and the top fun races. The main difference is that both the 
 core of the game as well as the side stuff has been greatly enhanced.
  
  For starters, you now play the role of Tommy Vercetti, who as opposed to Claude, the hero (or anti-hero) 
 in GTA III, does have a voice and a very wild personality. This helps move the main story of Vice 
 City a lot, since Tommy will always have a say in his actions and he will interact with the other 
 characters during the cutscenes, rather than simply follow orders from his bosses (as Claude did 
 in GTA III) . And more often than not, Tommy will do things his way, mainly because he sees himself 
 as "the boss". The other characters in Vice City are very memorable, from the crooked lawyer Ken 
 Rosenborg, to the "macho man" Umberto Robina, to the idiots from Love Fist, to the "cheap and sleazy" 
 Mercedes, all of them add another layer of interest and humor to the game. And needless to say, 
 the story is full of surprises and memorable moments. It should be noted that the main story missions 
 in Vice City are fewer than in GTA III; it's not a big problem in terms of game content since there 
 are far more side missions in Vice City than there were in GTA III, but I feel more main story 
 missions would've been welcome to flesh out the story a bit more. Also, Vice City's ending is somewhat 
 anticlimatic, but that doesn't take much away from the experience.
  
  The gameplay itself has received quite a few enhancements and you'll mostly notice this enhancements 
 as you're leading the good fight against the corrupt police of Vice City. The tires on vehicles 
 can be blown up, which makes police chases much harder, since a vehicle with flat tires is pretty 
 useless. You can also shoot the windshields in most cars, which can allow you to kill a driver 
 without even yanking him (or her) from the car. The police is also generally tougher, especially 
 the S. W. A. T. guys, who will now descend from helicopters as well as from their traditional vans. 
 There's also the undercover police who drives around in regular sport cars (cheetahs) . And of course 
 the military will show up if you raise enough hell.
  
  The weapons department, while similar as far as type of weapons goes, receives a significant change 
 in that you can now upgrade to better weapons within a category. You can exchange the mediocre 
 pistol for the powerful Python .357, as well as the regular Uzis for MP5s, and in the case of the 
 heavy weapons you have a choice from the Rocket Launcher, the M60, the Flamethrower and the Minigun. 
 The catch is that you can only carry one type of weapon per category, so in the case of the heavy 
 weapons you'll want to think which weapon is more useful in a certain situation. Another important 
 addition, is the wider variety of vehicles which includes motorcycles and helicopters. Motorcycles 
 are great for cruising around, while helicopters offer a great getaway vehicle. Both are excellent 
 additions to the already impressive lineup of vehicles in the game.
  
  The graphics engine hasn't changed that much, but that's hardly a problem because the appeal of 
 the visuals in the GTA games doesn't come from technically impressive graphics, but from a great 
 sense of artistic direction as well as presenting a very immersive world. Vice City offers a very 
 convincing recreation of the 80s version of Miami, Florida, with some tropical environments as 
 well as every bit of style the city had during that decade. There's plenty of detail around the 
 city, be it in the buildings, signs on the road, landmarks, the pedestrians roaming around the 
 city (who act more lifelike than they did in GTA III) , the explosions of vehicles (which look more 
 impressive this time around) , etc. Another nice touch is the ability to enter the numerous buildings 
 in Vice City. All things considered, despite using technically lesser quality graphics, Vice City 
 offers a more immersive and impressive world than most other technologically superior games out 
 there.
  
  And as if that weren't enough, the audio in the game brings everything that was great (and not 
 so great) of the 80s back to life. As in previous GTA games, the soundtrack is composed of the 
 various radio stations you can listen while on vehicles. All of them are great compilations of 
 80s music and they offer a lot in the matter of enhancing the game's atmosphere. Whatever your 
 choice of music was during the 80s (if you're old enough of course) , Rock, Pop, New Wave, Hip-Hop, 
 Romantic, or even latin music, it's all here. I actually found myself enjoying songs that otherwise 
 I would've never liked, simply because they contributed to the level of immersion in the game. 
 And the icing on the cake for me, was the inclusion of 2 talk radio stations, though admittedly 
 I mostly payed attention to only one of them. K-Chat and VCPR offer interviews and roundtable discussions 
 that are simply hilarious to listen. There's a lot of dark humor during both shows, as well a lot 
 of pokes at the ridiculous trends and movements of the 80s (something that's also true for the 
 various commercials played on the radio stations) . Also, on a very subjective note, the intro music 
 of Vice City is in my view the greatest intro music of any game ever made.
  
  While the soundtrack steals the show in the audio department, the actual sound effects of the game 
 are certainly up there in terms of quality. The voice acting is top notch (a lot of Hollywood talent 
 was hired here) , the pedestrian dialogue is more realistic and varies depending on the location 
 (spanish is abundant in the beaches and Little Havana) , and the actual gun sounds as well as the 
 vehicle sound effects are all very convincing and realistic.
  
  Grand Theft Auto: Vice City is everything you'd want from a sequel and a whole lot more. It takes 
 the proven formula from GTA III and adds enough variety to ensure the game stands tall on it's 
 own merits. While it's not bound to have the same impact on the industry and gamers the way it's 
 predecessor did, Vice City is generally speaking a better game than GTA III. Series newcomers would 
 be adviced to play GTA III first, but brace yourself once you're ready to play Vice City, as it's 
 one superb and very memorable action game that offers enough variety to satisfy any gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viveckvivu
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 3, 2007 5:09 am PT
Review:  Ah GTA Vice City. The game I have ever played in which we can do whatever we want to. Drive cars, 
 pushing the passengers out of the car. Ride bikes, by pushing off passengers in the same way. Drive 
 boats, helicopters, planes, karts. There is so much to do in this game. The Story: Tommy Vercetti 
 gets out of prison and soon gets into trouble when a drug deal goes wrong. He barely escapes the 
 attack. Now he has only one aim. To get his money back. On the way, he also does some side missions 
 with some guys and all.
  
  Lots of missions, lots of side mission, good story. The game is just perfect. Way better than GTA 
 3. Different varieties of cars, bikes and other vehicles. Good city. You never get bored of roaming 
 in Vice City.
  
  And to get you more into the game, there is a bunch of radio stations. All the radio stations were 
 good. I especially liked all of them. The radio stations are the best. The talks stations are very 
 good. Interesting to hear. And you feel, you are listening to a real radio station.
  
  Hmm..... what can I say more? Oh, there are so many other places you could visit. You could sometimes 
 do stunts to earn money. Control a remote controlled mini cars and mini helicopters. You could 
 buy properties. Many properties. Some properties give us money after we buy it and some after we 
 complete its missions. Or we could just kill some gang in some rampage mission. The combat system 
 in GTA: Vice City is superb. Many weapons to get hold off. Rocket launchers, snipers, SMG's, machineguns, 
 chainsaws, bombs, swords and many many many many many more. There are many things to do in this 
 game. So just play it folks. Dont hesitate to buy it, just BUY IT! YOU WILL LOVE IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btiddy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 21, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  GTA: VC Is the funnest game I've ever played. It's loaded with lots of action and an open story 
 line so that you can do whichever missions you want, whenever you want to do them!
  
  Stealing cars and getting in fights with cops are my favorite pasttimes in VC. I reccommend finishing 
 the game before you start buying places so you can get loads of cash and then go buy every place 
 there is to buy in the game. Flying helicopters is fun as well.
  
  KCHAT is awesome to listen to on your drive to your mansion and various jobs.
  
  Highly reccommended 
 to people that love guns, money, and stealing cars.
  
  GTA ROCKS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ejazzthegamer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 20, 2007 9:43 pm PT
Review:  This was the best of the gta series. None of the others had such a great story line and just to 
 damn good will there ever be another? Damn y No more San Andres was ok but not even close.... All 
 i can say is this is worth playing iv actually beaten the game 4 times and i still get a little 
 hooked. Im a natural born gamer and when a game is able to keep me this involved its is a F**king 
 A game. Many titles out there as of 2007 but i missed this so im playing it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madmatt253
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 19, 2007 8:44 pm PT
Review:  This game had all our attention back in 2002 hay its that game that have on PS2 look at it gotten 
 more flash yes and now you can ride motor bikes motor scooters and fly helicopters and it was around 
 this time that Christmas was a few weeks away (on the PS2) (witch my bro owns) and this game was 
 a Chrissy present for some and we all played and liked it but some thought hmmm i think GTA III 
 was better yes the add-ons and flash looks still turned people away (including me) no ones really 
 knows why they just say its a better game witch i don't really understand either but hay its grand 
 theft auto and it nsold millions world wide and came back 2 years later... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkManiaN_1979
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 18, 2007 12:37 am PT
Review:  Set in the 80s, in a Miami-like town called Vice City. You start off entangled in a ob conflict 
 and eventually move on to bigger and better things in the world of racketeering and seedy trades 
 among other businesses. The gameplay is mostly 3rd person though the aiming/firing system is all 
 fairly easy. Mostly freelook with the PC version. The main storyline is enough to keep you playing 
 for years, and the sub-mission category is plentiful. Seeing you taking over various local businesses. 
 Dont be fooled though because things are not as easy as they seem. Some of the missions are tough 
 and what you would consider to be boss levels are at times frustratingly hard to finish for some. 
 Basic gameplay is simple and quickly picked up by almost any level gamer. As per the title, your 
 able to commandeer a wide selection of vehicles including ; Cars, boats, bikes, helicopters, tanks, 
 golf carts, scooters etc
  (See how far you can fly the Dodo plane at the airport)
  
  Firing upon enemies on foot or in vehicle is picked up fairly easily and its really a matter of 
 point and click. Vehicles allow a drive by style shooting. nuff said. Your enemies dont really 
 come in huge variety, but they are life like and the AI is smarter than you might think, but you'll 
 be able to knock them dead each time once you have a bit of experience or if you have previous 
 experience. Unlike other games where your herded towards missions and objectives, this game allows 
 for complete freedom to do alot in the world of Vice City off mission . The thing that caught my 
 eye mostly was the fact that like its sequel installment GTA III you are able to roam around the 
 world quite freely and take on missions or sub-missions at your own will , which gives you leeway 
 for the fact that your surrounded by AI characters 24/7 that are all interactive in some forms. 
 Theres plenty to do, its not hard to find something to do. While in a mission, you'll see that 
 your instructions are always quite simple, and often come with a few stages to complete before 
 the actual mission has been accomplished. One might entail, you picking someone (an ally) up from 
 the beach. Driving them to another location where you both come under fire. You'll then have to 
 more than likely pull your weapons out and blast a few bad guys before you achieve a mission objective 
 like stealing a brief case. Secure your partner and then return them back to the beach with the 
 brief case safe and sound, where upon arrival you'll hear the victorious mission accomplished music. 
 (You'll learn to love it too)
  
  Not every mission involves a total blood bath being made, and some are rather more like tailing 
 jobs in vehicle and on foot. There really is a wider selection than most games that stick to one 
 form of Mission Objectives. The sub-missions and the businesses that are available to your character 
 are also something that you'll be able to get into. There are gangs about too, so you should be 
 careful where you tread in Vice City. All these things keep the game exciting. One such sub-mission 
 and business in general is Kaufman Cabs, a cab company that you can take control of. Its in a bad 
 neigbourhood so you should watch out also. Another sub-mission is just a simple as driving around 
 picking up passengers and dropping them at their destination before your time limit runs out. Your 
 making money all the while as well. Do this 100 x and you'll be rewarded with a special gift. This 
 has been an extremely brief overview to give you an idea of the gameplay that is involved with 
 the story line missions. Graphically this game is smooth and it runs smooth on a decent PC. 256 
 RAM 2.4 P4 and a 256 mb gfx card should do it. I forget the exact system specs at the moment, but 
 its fairly easy to run this game with max settings with no lag. When you enter vehicles you'll 
 also be able to listen to the built in radioi stations that are not only rockin', but the DJ's 
 are hilarious at times. It wouldnt be the 80s without a metal station, and a few other genre stations. 
 The good thing about the PC version is that you can also put your own music in a designated folder 
 in My Documents/Vice City User files/User Tracks and listen to your own music in game. way cool. 
 There really is quite a lot to do. Theres even a film studio in which you can participate with. 
 The replayablilty is awesome for this game, and series in fact. The large array of things to do 
 will keep you busy for months if not years. Once you have finally finished it ALL 100% (which is 
 no walk in the park) ,
  starting a completely new game is still fresh and exciting because over time you'll probably form 
 bonds with other characters in the game that are not as frequent in the game once you've finished 
 it, and enjoy seeing them again when you replay it. If your not interested in that, the game always 
 lets you do sub-missions, driving games, dirt bike games, remote control car games, or....
  you could just sit atop a building a sniper the next mofo that walks down the road. Its a world 
 of possibility in Vice City, so take a trip back to the 80s and see for yourself. I would also 
 recommend this game to anyone who enjoyed GTA 1,2,3 . Play this game BEFORE you play GTA San Andreas. 
 PS: This game has an unofficial modded server client also that allows you to play online or in 
 a LAN against your buddies.
  Well worth checking this out too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rashicon
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 16, 2007 1:27 am PT
Review:  GTA VICE CITY IS AN AMAZING GAME. This is my favourite game and it is the best of all my games. I 
 wanted gta vice city for four long years. When my cousin bought a computer his friend gave him vice 
 city and he gave me a copy. Man now I can never stop playing this game. This is a highly adddictive 
 game. If you ask me I say Vice City is the best game ever made in this series. I have been playing 
 it for almost a year but still I dont get tired of it. Vice city also includes new vehicles like 
 helicopter, sea plane, motorbikes etc. I feel lucky to have a great game like this. GTA VICE CITY also 
 has outstanding graphics. GTA Vice City is a very great game which should not be missed. EVERYBODY 
 HAVE FUN PLAYING GTA VICE CITY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SouthParkFan92
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 5, 2007 8:36 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto Vice City was a game that I put off for a while. I am not sure why. Last year however, 
 I got Grand Theft Auto Vice City for PC. I must say I was simply blown away. Grand Theft Auto Vice 
 City is a game not to be missed. The graphics may not be as good as other games but they are still 
 pretty good. I own all the 3D Grand Theft Auto games and in my opinion Vice City is the second best 
 in the series. The game has the best storyline out of all the grand theft auto games. The missions 
 are fun to play and like the other games there is a huge miami-like city you can explore. Also I 
 dislike modern day music despite the fact that I am a young teen. I am a big fan of 1980's music. The 
 soundtrack of Grand Theft Auto Vice City is so good! We have plenty of 1980's songs of all genres 
 by Hall and Oates, Michael Jackson, Toto, Foreigner, Motley Crue, Iron Maiden, Grandmaster Flash, Run 
 DMC, Human League and the list goes on! Sometimes I just like driving around the miami city at night 
 listening to the 80's hits. I think every radio station in the game is excellent although I could 
 have lived without the Spanish radio station. If you dont like 80's music there is always the funny 
 VCPR and K-CHAT radio stations. The game takes place in 1986. You are Tommy Vercetti a mob thug who 
 was recently released from prison after staying there for 15 years. His old boss Sonny Forelli asks 
 him to do a drug deal in Vice City but something goes wrong. They get ambushed and the money and 
 drugs get stolen. There are actually two parts to Grand Theft Auto Vice City. The first part is about 
 Tommy Vercetti trying to find out who ambushed them during the drug deal. The second part is about 
 Tommy Vercetti who has made a name for himself in Vice City. He is now a rich drug-dealer living 
 in a mansion but Sonny Forelli doesnt really like this fact. During the game you do plenty of missions. Out 
 of all the GTA games Vice City was the easiest one. There are only two maybe three missions that 
 are difficult in the game. Of course when you arent doing a mission its always fun to cause chaos.
 
  
  In Conclusion Grand Theft Auto Vice City is an amazing game experience not to be missed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lightwarrior179
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 5, 2007 12:24 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto Series has always been at it's seventh heaven ever since GTAIII became a big time 
 hit. Now with Vice City, Rockstar truly shows the power of PC graphics and the GTA game engine. 
 Because Vice City is one of those unforgettable games that shall leave it's mark on whosoever plays 
 it.
  
  Tommy Vercetti, a guy working for Forelli's is released from prison and is sent to the tropical 
 paradise of Vice City. In the start itself your deal goes bad and you are left without any bucks. 
 Time comes when he does pull back his revenge and becomes the King of Vice City. But the storyline 
 is not the entire Vice City. For the first time indoor environment has induced a realistic graphical 
 view on PC. The gameplay with it's old  and new Pizza Boy 
 missions gives you time to view the city. Because it is the city and Tommy that steal the game's 
 limelight. Vice City at any time looks as beautiful and visual as ever.
  
  Sound stands as one of the best as the 80's theme suits Vice City well. Listening to 80's driving 
 through those gleaming neon lights gives a memorable experience.
  
  The storyline is unfortunately a bit short but the mission design has improved by a lot. Now you 
 shall see yourself skimming through the waves engaged in a shoot-out or sometimes in the middle 
 of the Cuban and Haitian gang war.
  
  Hence Vice City stands as a game that shall be considered as the game from where GTA could be called 
 the BEST!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hutapamo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 15, 2006 4:23 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto is a cool game I like it. At first I did not like it but then I started exploring 
 the game and got to like it. In my game I put a mod that changes nearly every single car in the 
 game, with new weapons and places. For now I have just been downloading other people's saved games 
 with 100% completed, and playing around with those, so when I get bored of finishing missions I 
 play on those, it is so cool because they have finished doing everything in the game so you can 
 just actually fool around however you want. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayer_Sam
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  Just like its predecessor, Grand Theft Auto: Vice City is best experienced on a PC. The addition 
 of high-resolution graphics, improved control, and custom skins and soundtracks help make one of 
 the best games of 2002 even better. Nobody who has even remotely followed video games needs an 
 introduction to the GTA series. Love it or hate it, GTA 3 single-handedly put Rockstar Games on 
 the map, and for good reason  the game is a masterpiece in every sense of the word, and its appeal 
 transcends its violent subject matter to reveal one of the most enriching gameplay experiences 
 ever created. Rather than start from scratch and reinvent the series like the third installment, 
 Vice City instead expands on the strengths that made GTA 3 such a killer app. All the violent action, 
 antics, and activities from 3 are back in full effect, only this time; it all takes place in the 
 seedy underworld of the 1980's. There are loads of new gameplay additions as well, such as helicopters, 
 motorcycles, and the ability to build your own criminal syndicate as the game progresses. But you 
 already knew that. What you want to know is how the game differs from the PS2 version. Well, it 
 has better  MUCH better  graphics and aiming, custom soundtracks, and the ability to create skins. 
 Other than that, there is relatively nothing changed from the PS2 source. The small glitches where 
 you would lose health after stepping off some small ledges such as sidewalks seem to have been 
 somewhat remedied, but there is no extra content, and that is a shame. I am not suggesting that 
 there should be an expansion pack's worth of extra material in the game, or that it should even 
 tie into the main story. Still, one or two extra strings of exclusive optional missions would have 
 been a nice nod to those who have waited for this, the superior version of a fine, fine game. Where's 
 the love, Rockstar? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ahandil
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 14, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  It&acute; s quite simple: go there, kill that guy and get his **** Don&acute; t think so much, don&acute; t 
 ask, just shoot, ride fast and shoot again. How can this became so addictive then?? It has a story 
 of course, get Tommy rule this sooo looking Miami Vice city and become rich following the dirty 
 way. You cannot do nothing about the how, it&acute; s absolutely linear; but it doesn&acute; t bother 
 that much this time. Like in all GTA you have the story related missions which will lead you to 
 finish the game and the secondary ones that just bring money and extra fun, not to mention the 
 legendary Kill Frenzy that pays just for killing people in a certain way. Anyway, money is quite 
 irrelevant here. Except for buying places for extra missions, you never need it. When you get to 
 now the city (giant, that&acute; s right, but you can do it) you can find anything you can need. 
 Don&acute; t ask it realism, it&acute; s just action fun; with some comic logic sometimes and a bunch 
 of good jokes during the excellent cut-scenes that introduces you to every mission. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: denny33142
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 7, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  there so much ways to describe the talent of this game that i cant list them all. vice city is 
 the best in the gta series by a long shot. everything about this game is good. the graphics, the 
 gameplay, the story, if you havent played this game yet then you definitely should play it NOW 
 becouse your missing one of the best PC games ever made. some ppl critizise the game about it having 
 too much vilence and all, but thats why it has an M rating. if you think the game has too much 
 violence then dont play it simple as that 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thesimpsonsno1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 3, 2006 1:14 am PT
Review:  let me first just say BRILLIANT!!!!! very very good game beats all of the zelda games it was hard 
 but worth getting. It is an extremly addictive game but it needs an improvement in the graphics 
 it takes a long time to finish and has alot of characters and it is huge especially when you add 
 the mods (modifications) like the liberty city one or multi theft auto (if you have the internet (which 
 you obviously do if your reading this) ) if you get it you should get the double pack or the trilogy 
 for more fun. It is accually set in Miami city 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 20, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  Grand theft auto vice city is worth playing and buying, This game was made by rockstar and they 
 have made other grand theft auto game before but vice city is something different (this is for 
 pc)
  
  Graphics The graphics in this game are very good compared to most games out but they are no the 
 best. The graphics are good when you use the chainsaw on people and the blood splatters on the 
 monitor and also when you arte in the water on a boat and the water is sprayed in the boats windows 
 and also when you are in the helicopter the down force of the rotors when you land and it blows 
 all the dust out of the way when you land, when you are driving a car when you are driving very 
 fast you car see all of the building going past you and when you crash the car is all dented and 
 it starts to smoke and the blow up. Sound The sound when you are playing the game are very good 
 as well especially when you are using weapons in the game especially the chain saw when you are 
 killing people and you can hear the engine on the chain saw, you can also hear the engine in you 
 faster cars, when the car blows up you can hear it explode behind you, also when you are flying 
 the attack helicopter or one of your own from you house you have a chose to listen to the radio 
 or you own music and the part I like best is that you can listen to you own music and all the time 
 you are e just flying or driving. Game play The missions in this game are hard but some of them 
 are easy especially waste the wife when you have to kill someones wife I just type in big bang 
 when I see her in her car and drive off I do big bang and the mission is complete all of the other 
 missions are easy but some are harder than others. When you have completed vice city main missions 
 you have to go and do the other missions that are around e. g. car show room you have to collect 
 the cares that are on the lists, the hardest part of the mission is finding the cars on the roads 
 or in car parks. This game is old but people still play this game and it is still popular among 
 computer users. Conclusion This game is one of the best games that ROCKSTAR have made so if you 
 like this sort of game buys it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarrom_Fin
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 6, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Gta vice city is a great game with problems. The story is fun to play. But after the story. All 
 you can do are vigilante missions, fire truck missions, pizza boy missions, gang missions and some 
 other missions, That sounds much, but those are quickly done. After that you can open the secret 
 bonuses which are not fun in the end. After you have done all this. There is nothing to do except 
 slaughtering polices. This has been the problem of gta series all from the first game. The radio 
 stations are good. The mp3 system in pc version is fun. If you want a game that is real fun until 
 the playable content is done you should try vice city, but if you want a game that lasts long, 
 and has much of replay value, then this is a disapointment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eyebrowless
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 5, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Why did this game get such a low score you ask? Well, the graphics are on par with a 2001 era game, 
 and when you eventually beat all of the missions, this world is just so much of the same that i 
 cant warrant too much excitment for it. Though, some of the best parts of the game is the radio, 
 with hundreds of licensed songs from the era and wonderful chat, this would be worth it just to 
 put on your iPod or cd player. The gameplay is much improved over the console version, considering 
 you can aim with the mouse instead of a spotty lock on feature, but its all just the same, despite 
 the numerous amounts of weapons. Lets face it, if your not playing this game with cheat codes, 
 your just not gonna have fun with it. I didnt really like ANY of the numerous missions and i just 
 plain didnt want to play them. Therefore, this game is fun only for messing around in the world 
 that Rockstar has generously laid out for us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junglemanchild
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 4, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto hits the 80's. Totally different to GTA 1+2 and closer to the 3rd. Many would 
 argue that this is one of the best games ever made for many reasons. I really believe it has something 
 for everyone.
  
  GAMEPLAY 9/10
  
  There are a LOT of things you can do in this game. You can follow the story and complete the game... or 
 you can find 100 hidden packages, kill innocents for the sake of it, kill the police, FBI, army 
 and basically go on a full blown rampage. It really is a game that doesn't make you stick to one 
 path. You buy properties, sell drugs, buy drugs and kill a lot of people. You could drive around 
 listening to the hours and hours of 80s radio with some of my favourite artists included (Megadeth, 
 Anthrax and Iron Maiden) . Controls are easy to get used to. It doesn't take long to get used to 
 it. There are many many missions and it definetly has replay value. The story borrows from many 
 of the great movies such as Scarface . It is a little bit simple though and despite a few difficult 
 missions you will probably complete most first time. GRAPHICS 7/10
  
  The graphics are not amazing. They are decent but do not use the technology of the PS2 to its full 
 power. So it is a bit cartoonish but not in the good way like some other games. Running frankly 
 looks ridiculous and if the graphics were better the game would be even better.
  
  SOUND 10/10
  
  From the voice acting to the music, this game is definetly a 10/10 when it comes 
 to sound. I found myself sitting with Vrock on constantly, really getting into the game. The acting 
 is great with Ray Liota (Goodfellas) providing the voice of the main character Tommy Vercetti. 
 VALUE 10/10
  
  This is definetly worth the price. It is now a platinum game and you will find this for a very 
 cheap price. You will definetly complete it more than once and thats always a good thing.
  ------
  Overall I give this game a 9.0. Some things could have been improved. Graphics especially, 
 they are too a lot of peoples taste but they could have really been better. Most have played this 
 game, if you haven't then you really should give it a shot, you will most likely become addicted 
 like the millions of others you own this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jelle_schepens
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 2, 2006 4:33 am PT
Review:  GTA Vice City is a nice game, you have a great choice of doing what you want, great free roam and 
 also SWEET missions, great game, well you start, you are a low-life and you have to do easy missions 
 like transporting someone, or just ram a car till he blows up, but till the end you got to shoot 
 several boats from a helicopter or lose the feds by shooting them up. nice free roam, lot's of 
 cars, nice things hidden, like the hidden packages (there are 100 little packages hidden over the 
 whole level, you job is to find them)
  or insane stunts, you see a jump, over a river or something, and you gotta jump it, get a fast 
 car or you won't make it and you'll get a lot of money by just jumping it!!!!
  nice game, it's a good game on each console, that is very hard for a FPS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tybalt7
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 30, 2006 5:42 am PT
Review:  I remember first getting GTA 3 on the PS2, what a game... it was so unlike any other... effectively 
 an exciting and action packed crime simulator! For Vice City the Rockstar team have gone on to 
 make a game that's not so much a sequel, but an enhanced expansion... sort of. They have managed 
 to take everything that was good from the first incarnation... just about everything... and add some 
 wonderful little twists.
  
  You now play a character with more of a personality that the hood from GTA 3, and have to patrol 
 an 80s Florida style town causing all manner of mayhem whilst completing some crime filled missions.
 
  
  The game-play for Vice City is very similar to that of GTA 3, but with more weapons, vehicles and 
 the ability to buy places to reside and clothes to wear.
  
  The graphics are beautifully done, and reflect the more colourful gaudiness of an 80s coastal city, 
 far more interesting than the very bleak and oppressive Liberty City of GTA 3.
  
  The sound, as with the first game is probably the highlight of the game, 80s soundtracks, backed 
 up by wonderfully scripted DJs for each station, the PC version also allows you to use some of 
 your own music from MP3 files if you so wish.
  
  Due to the sheer size and enjoyment of Vice City it's a bargain in anyone's book, the fun and durability 
 you'll receive will make it seem like any money handed over for it, is money well spent.
  
  The franchise of GTA is one of my personal favourites, and probably always will be, right from 
 the first version on the PS One, however, for me it's just not as good on the PC. I don't feel 
 it's due to any shortcomings by the PC version, in many ways I feel it's better, (The MP3 addition 
 and improved graphics especially) , but I just get more satisfaction from the Playstation.
  
  I am fully aware you can get a game-pad to mimic the control method of the PS2, but I think 
 my USB connection just isn't that great... and I don't enjoy the game when playing with keys and 
 a mouse. I guess I just tend to prefer more strategy based games on the PC, and action on the consoles.
 
  
  That said, whichever version works for you, you have to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NimMroD
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2006 12:16 am PT
Review:  when i first played it i found it to be a bit hard .... but soon i found it to be highly addictive 
 .... and i just loved finishing it several times over .... and experimented with a few patches 
 ... playing it is very fun ........ i really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really really really really really really really really really really really really really 
 really really LOVE IT .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilikemuffins000
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 14, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  When I heard about Rockstar's new out coming game, I wasn't so excited. I thought that GTA 3 was 
 a failure and it's sequel was going to be just as bad. But boy was I wrong!
  The gameplay in Vice City is terrific! With an awesome story line, great set of weapons, and so 
 many side missions and collectibles, you can't go wrong! The vehicle choice is abnormal and the 
 addition of helicopters really puts you into the Tommy Vercetti a. k. a. Ruler of Vice City feeling 
 when you're soaring above the sky-scrapers.
  The graphics struggled a bit but they made it through. Although the players' hand shapes never 
 change that can be overcome with the awesome detail of all the vehicles in the game. The sound 
 is unmatched. From the VROOOOOM... of the engines to the screams of pedestrians when they're getting 
 soaked with Molotovs, the sound really backs up this game. Heck, you can even forget all the minor 
 graphic problems with sound quality this good!
  As of now Vice City is $20 for any system. With this kind of value you can't have any second thoughts!
 
  So whether you're looking for a straight action shooter with an awesome storyline or an awesome 
 free roam game where you can just run around and kill people (man, that never gets old) Vice City 
 is a game for you!
  
  Rent or Buy
  Buy! The value is awesome and of course if you don't like it... well then you're crazy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paiduema
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2006 1:25 am PT
Review:  GTA Vice City is the best in series, well, i come home from work stressed out in need for a nice 
 chill... and then i just start the game aimlessly, take a nice car/bike/airplane go drive around 
 listen to my favorite music (I love all radios mostly in VC) ... it is more than a game, it is a 
 life going beoynd your screen ... I'd say, if there is someone who never played GTA VC, they MUST 
 ... it is truly addictive.
  
  GTA Vice City is the best in series, well, i come home from work stressed out in need for a nice 
 chill... and then i just start the game aimlessly, take a nice car/bike/airplane go drive around 
 listen to my favorite music (I love all radios mostly in VC) ... it is more than a game, it is a 
 life going beoynd your screen ... I'd say, if there is someone who never played GTA VC, they MUST 
 ... it is truly addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellogamebot
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 5, 2006 5:46 am PT
Review:  Vice city bounces off the shelves. play it, cronies. Its a superb game, right down to its heels. the 
 ambiance in the game is hearth rendering and soundtracks are so good. music is hardcore. graphics 
 are worth drooling. game play is absorbing and highly addictive. variety in the game is stupendous. you 
 can do anything, short of going to bed with the lovely ladies of vice city. this game is the king. story 
 is very enrapturing and it'll make you play more and more. the story opens up gradually, and so does 
 the maps of the city. atmospheric effects are also good, very good. its got me absolutely mesmerised. the 
 story is set in the classic eighties, with hip-hop music and drugs and cigaretts and **** me guys, and 
 buy this game if you have'nt. and ofc ourse, enjoy!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Defender_502
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 10, 2006 8:27 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto: Vice City is an incredible game. Rockstar Games really went above and beyond 
 on this one. Everything about this game came together so well: the storyline, quality of gameplay, 
 and vast numbers of primary missions and side missions. The ability to steal cars (hence the game's 
 name) and drive across huge expanses, all the while interacting with other drivers who exhibited 
 unpredictable AI only added to the fun.
  
  Playing as Tommy Vercetti, the player controls an up and coming mobster who must literally obliterate 
 the competition in his bid to rule the underworld of Vice City. The city itself is modeled after 
 Miami, and the play area is absolutely huge.
  
  Since the game was set in the 1980s, it was complete with references from the decade of decadence: 
 pastel colors are everywhere and 1980s tunes were ever present on the radios of the vehicles appropriated 
 by Tommy.
  
  One icon of the 1980s, which had a large impact on the decade, made an appearance as well. Of course 
 I'm talking about the television series Miami Vice. If Tommy garnered too much interest from the 
 police due to his rampant lawbreaking, Crockett and Tubbs would roll up in their Ferrari Testarossa 
 to aid the locals in their attempt to bring Tommy to justice.
  
  The only downfall to Grand Theft Auto: Vice City is that the levels aren't replayable once the 
 game has been completed. On the plus side, there are a plethora of mods and patches available from 
 GameSpot which served to increase the fun factor through all the new options available.
  
  Probably my favorite aspect of the game (aside from the free reign the player has to roam at will) 
 were the Vigilante missions. Tearing through the streets smashing into cars was a sure recipe for 
 enjoyment.
  
  This game featured a high maturity level due to the incredible violence, cursing, and general adult 
 content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filaria
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 2, 2006 12:46 am PT
Review:  GTA vice city is definitely among the best games you are most likely to encounter in your entire 
 gaming life. But this expereince according to me is limited to a great deal only on gameplay. The 
 graphics are the biggest dissappointment according to me. Even for San Andreas a game of 2005 has 
 graphics that hardly look new. Vice city has the largest variety to offer from riding bikes to driving 
 cars to jacking them to blowing them up to riding helicopters, boats, police vehicles tanks and 
 one plane. The tank kinda sucks. Their are some pretty cool weapons to be found in vice city. Now 
 this game is seriously long especially for those who love extremely long hours of gameplay. There 
 are plenty of missions and side misiions some of them can be repeated over and over again. There 
 are some definite toughie misiions I have ever encountered. The sound is OK not that good nor that 
 bad. Another thing that I guess could have required tweaking is the AI. At times they do very stupid 
 stuff to annoy the living life outa ya. By current standars vice city could have been a great game 
 made better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cuitexcutei
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 19, 2007 4:43 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto: Vice City is the sixth installment of the Grand Theft Auto franchise. People 
 might have mistaken Vice City as Grand Theft Auto IV, but it turned out they are wrong as Grand 
 Theft Auto IV was announced years later. Vice City is set in the fictional world along with San 
 Andreas, Liberty City and Carcer City, the city where Rockstar's Manhunt was set in. Vice City 
 is arguably a copy of Miami as all the beaches, properties and buildings look identical to Miami. 
 Also, in terms of the game, there are some elements of the movie Scarface. This is shown by the 
 clothing the protagonist Tommy Vercetti wears and also the mansion he later claims.
  
  The game starts off when Sonny Forelli, the don of the Forelli Family at the time, discussed how 
 they were going to use Tommy Vercetti to rule Vice City. They sent Tommy to Vice City to make a 
 drug deal but it was ambushed and so Tommy needs to work his way through the city to try and find 
 out who was behind it all. The game has made a huge improvement since Grand Theft Auto III came 
 out. Not only it had the 3D world, but the graphics were much more smoother and the vegetation, 
 pedestrians, vehicles were more realistic.
  
  As it was set in the 1980's, they introduced more classic cars and other vehicles and also you 
 would notice the presence of motorbikes, which you did not see in Liberty City in GTA III but it 
 was revealed why they did not have motorbikes in GTA: Liberty City Stories.
  
  The missions in Vice City are quite unique from that of GTA III as it not only consists of you 
 killing specific people, you also had to perform various tasks apart from homicide. Like for example 
 you have to missions for the Film Studio, you act as the stuntman and had to ride your bike on 
 top of buildings and flying everywhere. Also there are some missions where it requires you to fly 
 mini planes and dropping bombs to blow up a construction site. But when it comes to battle with 
 enemies with gunfire, it really isn't that difficult and it only requires some effort to be able 
 to pass the missions. There are only a few harder ones but they are later in the game.
  
  Grand Theft Auto: Vice City is a very unique title from its predecessor because it contained much 
 more amusing features to the game. It is arguably the best of the Grand Theft Auto franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acurban
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2006 1:00 am PT
Review:  What a fantastic game!! I just love being able to travel anywhere i desire in a game world. It 
 is a fantastic time to be alive!! You should definitely try out all of the free style games and 
 see i you like it. The fact is, most of us no longer have days to dedicate to gameplaying so its 
 better if we have a game we can play and roam around in for 30 minutes or an hour and still are 
 able to save and get things done in hte game. The story is interesting and told well with stars 
 doing the voices. You'll fall in love with the characters and enjoy running the pedestrians dowm. 
 lots of gore and blood. I love it !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoP999606
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 15, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  Ok so let's just go to the point here, for me Vice City is the bst GTA game it's better than GTA 
 III because it's a lot... mor yoy have more guns more vechicles more posibilites. The game for 
 me has the best looking city to it's just like Miami and it's just great it's even better then 
 the cityes in San Andreas. This game is not only a masterpiece it's also best in series, it's worth 
 playng it's a great game but it's not revolutanery. Why? Becuse like San Andreas (and all imitators 
 on the market for that matter) it feels a lot like GTA III. Revolutonary I think is the word that 
 is most apropirate for GTA III because c'mon this game practicly invented a style. So when I was 
 playng Vice City some times it felt like GTA III but then I looked around at the many vehicles 
 on the road the cool radio station and the whole dam city and I knew I wasn't playng GTA III.
 
  About gameplay there isn't much to say other then it's basicly the same with GAT III only now 
 you have flight new mekanics but that's obout it the gameplay is the same and tht's under no circumstance 
 a bad thing it's one of the game strong suit's, and the gameplay is what the GTA series is known 
 about I personaly don't want to change the game's feel ever.
  Now enough gameplay let's get to the graphichs they are excelent the ligting is superb and the 
 colurs and textures are great. The only thing I didn't like were the cutscenes there the detailes 
 come out and thre not incredible but there still OK.
  Now the greatest thing about the game is it's super sound. The voice acting first is superb the 
 voices are realy aprorpitate. But the best part is the soundtrack when you enter a car the soundtrack 
 is incredibile you get all the best 80's music and funny DJ comentary. For this natter the geme 
 get's a 10 at sound.
  So this game MUST NOT be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GU-Soldier93
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 10, 2006 1:26 pm PT
Review:  OMG this game is mad cool cuz of its intense combat. You know the blood, gore, and fighting really 
 amazed me. Alright the thing is so cool cuz it has cool bikes and improved over the last GTA and 
 is certanily worth buying. Also there is hundreds of things to do that will never bore you. The 
 story was cool from betraying gang members, to shootouts, and the old car thefts, plus you get alot 
 of vehicles which have alot of cool sounds. I mean when you like kill a cop you get certain stars (I 
 am sure you know that) and there is like so many cop cars waiting to bust you. In total this game 
 was worth buying!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: praharsh22
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 4, 2006 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Play it to believe.......
  
  Surely, this game is one of the best, if not the best, games i have ever played in my life. After 
 completing it one will still crave for more. The graphics are okay, not VERY good. But the story, 
 and and the so many different things you can do in the game make it just AWESOME....
  
  The missions are a great fun to complete.... well..... beating somebody up, or throwing someone out 
 of his own vehicle also makes you enjoy a lot. Some missions are quite tough... but it's great fun 
 doing them.
  
  The sounds are good. The gameplay is great. And, surely, it is NOT difficult to understand the 
 game and learn the controls.
  
  Mark these golden words:
  
  "THIS GAME ROCKS" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GU-Trooper92
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 2, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  OMG this game is mad cool cuz of its intense combat. You know the blood, gore, and fighting really 
 amazed me. Alright the thing is so cool cuz it has cool bikes and improved over the last GTA and 
 is certanily worth buying. Also there is hundreds of things to do that will never bore you. The 
 stroy was cool from betraying gang members, to shootouts, and the old car thefts. I mean when you 
 like kill a cop you get certain stars (I am sure you know that) and there is like so many cop cars 
 waiting to bust you. In total this game was worth buying!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andilosha
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 31, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  Grand Threft Auto... I've played a lot of it. Grand Threft Auto 3 is great, San Andreas is Colossal 
 but Vice City is UNBELIVABLE! The city is great, here you can do a lot of things, steel cars, drive 
 boats, helicopters and this game isn't just an Italian Mafia style game, where you just kill one 
 guy after another. (Don't missunderstand I like mafia games) But the things you do here, motorcycles, 
 cheats, big weapons make this game real fun. The colors are great, it has beautiful bright colors 
 like pink and blue which make this game nice, and creates an reach fun atmosphere. GTA San Andreas 
 is a whole new dimension, many things are better thought (like that you can swim) but Vice City 
 is nicer, like when buying businesses and making money, meeting porn directors, demolishing buildings, 
 this game might have everything you'd like to do in a video game. If you want to buy San Andreas, 
 I suggest to get Vice City first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDarkTwo
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 25, 2006 9:56 am PT
Review:  superb game physics and everything! at first I thought this game was gonna be garage but it really 
 lived up to its hype. nd believe you me, there was a lot of hype about this game when it first 
 came out. I decided to buy it and give it a shot,. even though the rating was Ma and everything, 
 but I grew to love it. the replay value is superb as well.
  
  superb game physics and everything! at first I thought this game was gonna be garage but it really 
 lived up to its hype. nd believe you me, there was a lot of hype about this game when it first 
 came out. I decided to buy it and give it a shot,. even though the rating was Ma and everything, 
 but I grew to love it. the replay value is superb as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ovis123456789
Rating: 6.3
Date: Aug 11, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  it was a good game some missions were hard some were easy any way the gameplay was great and so 
 is the sound. In my opinoin vice is much better than san andreas. Vice had a much better story 
 to it, and i liked the whole mobster theme rather than the gangster theme. There were alot of diffrent 
 tracks in vice city so it made it more fun to play , while san andreas had only gangster rap which 
 got a little boring after a while. Most miisions in Vice city were way better than in san andreas. 
 The graphics could have been better but they weren't really bad, they could have put a little more 
 details into the person. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chickenzzz
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Amazing.
  Better than GTA San Andreas.
  Eu joguei esse jogo e fechei, ele eh foda...
  baixem pq eh mt bom ^^
  
  Amazing.
  Better than GTA San Andreas.
  Eu joguei esse jogo e 
 fechei, ele eh foda...
  baixem pq eh mt bom ^^
  
  Amazing.
  Better than GTA San Andreas.
  Eu joguei esse jogo e fechei, ele eh foda...
  baixem pq eh mt 
 bom ^^
  
  Amazing.
  Better than GTA San Andreas.
  Eu joguei esse jogo e fechei, ele eh foda...
  baixem pq eh mt bom ^^
  
  Amazing.
  Better 
 than GTA San Andreas.
  Eu joguei esse jogo e fechei, ele eh foda...
  baixem pq eh mt bom ^^
  
  Amazing.
  Better than GTA San Andreas.
  Eu joguei esse jogo e 
 fechei, ele eh foda...
  baixem pq eh mt bom ^^
  
  Amazing.
  Better than GTA San Andreas.
  Eu joguei esse jogo e fechei, ele eh foda...
  baixem pq eh mt 
 bom ^^
  
  Amazing.
  Better than GTA San Andreas.
  Eu joguei esse jogo e fechei, ele eh foda...
  baixem pq eh mt bom ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdulrahiem
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  have to say that I was very surprised by this game. The game is actually pretty fun in some parts, 
 but there is definetely too much traveling from this place to your lawyer and back. The game has 
 some great diolouge in some parts with a surprising story that is realisticly true to situations 
 of the mob. The city is a lot bigger and more lively than Liberty City in Grand Theft Auto 3. Motorcycles, 
 planes and helicopters are finally useable. The 80's soundtrack contains some of the best hits 
 from 80's hits. Sunny locations on beaches, and bright colorful neon lights at night makes this 
 a gorgeous game. The number of different types of cars is awesome, there are also more types of 
 people walking the streets in Vice City. The graphics in this game are very good from the cars driving 
 down the road to the glistening water to all of these beautiful graphics. Some people might say 
 different but these graphics just fit the Grand Theft Auto feel. The only complant about this game 
 would be that the frame rate gets a little slow when the action heats up but this is very minor. But 
 this is a very good game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Beckham
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 4, 2006 4:45 am PT
Review:  GTA is back, and it's time to stock up with coffee for the sleepless nights you'll endure just 
 to play this game. 
  
  Vice City is the latest installment for the venerable GTA series. Vice City doesn't change the 
 formula of it's award winning predecessor. Arguably, this is the best game in the GTA series, and 
 I fully agree with it. Apparently, Rockstar follows the formula of bigger and badder. Vice City 
 is about two times larger than Liberty City and it all means better for the fans. 
  
  The graphics are improved and looks a whole lot better, but still isn't that great, and character 
 hands are worse than before, having just mere blocks or flesh. The music is even better in Vice 
 City, with more radio stations and funnier talk stations on air. Vice City improves on GTA III's 
 vehicle handling, and you get a better sense of speed this time, even on old models of cars while 
 the sports cars are undrivable at top speeds. This may be a reason on why I was always crashing 
 into invisible walls at top speeds. The draw distance is much improved, but still flaws when driving 
 at top speeds. The weapons system has also underwent an overhaul, requiring you to choose a weapon 
 of specific class instead of letting you get all weapons. 
  
  There are also more vehicles in this game, with important additions like helicopters and motorcycles. 
 I personally prefer the motorcycles as they're fast and sleek, allowing you to slip through traffic 
 easily.
  
  Overall, this is a sequel to GTA III, and all fans of GTA III must get Vice City. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pikachu_is_god
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 1, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Even if you have doubts about the game before trying it, try it out and see if you like it - which 
 I did, but you will still like it.
  
  Pros - The best thing about this game? Non-linear game play! Once you get far enough, you can do 
 whatever you want! You can do missions, be a taxi driver, police officer, steal cars, kill people 
 senselessly, rob stores, get hookers!!
  
  Its graphics weren't that great but Rockstar did to GTA games before it, it did a good job of fitting 
 a bunch of people onto the screens.
  
  Different outfits, cars, people, a lot of diversity. 
  
  If you own a PS2 or Xbox (other edition) 
 its a must-have.
  
  Everything not in a cons is a pro!
  
  Cons - A bit too violent, storyline could have been a bit stronger, long loading times, there is 
 no way to "beat" the police. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godsuki
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 1, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  There are 4 Grand Theft Auto that you must now know because it is very excellent and popular games: 
 
  
  GTA 3 
  GTA: Vice City
  GTA: San Andreas
  GTA: Librety City Stories
  
  Vice City is the second game of the GTA series. This games combine the formula of GTA 3 with some 
 aspect of Miami Vice, Scare Face and the 80's.
  
  The story start that some mafia family want to expend their influences and empire. So what better 
 palce than Vice City, because the new business of the mafia is the drugs. So they send Tommy V. 
 to do their business for the mob in Vice City. Later on, some bad guys in Vice City stole the mafia 
 money and the drugs of the narc from Colombia as plan of a deal. Now Tommy must solve this problem 
 but to solve thisproblem, he must gain reputation in Vice City to do some "jobs". Little by little 
 you will have control of Vice City.
  
  The gameplay is very good similar to GTA 3 but this time new things have added like riding in motorcycles, 
 own big properties, buy new clothes, etc.
  In here, you can use your imagination even higher this time. The music is awesome, the color of 
 the game is cool too. The voices are very familiar. 
  Why? Because some famous actores join to make the game like Ray Liota, Tom Sizemore and more. Now 
 thats what I call movie - game style.
  The only problem of the game is the mission some of them is too darn hard and frustrated to pass.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: t3t3t3
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 31, 2006 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Vice City is best in series no doubt about it San Andreas should ever be a expansion pack. This 
 is the last game in the series before the whole "Sims" thing is applied to SA by that i mean feeding 
 hair clothes who gives a you know what about that stuff!!! GTA is meant to be a huge city and adult 
 videos and pure shoot out gameplay and GTA Vice City covers all of that. Through out the game you 
 take on role of Tommy Vercetti the guy who lost 11million of a mafia boss's money in a set up drug. 
 While you are taking over the city and trying to get the money back you meet alot of people some 
 you become friends but most you kill. In the game you are set out in a huge city and you are allowed 
 to do anything you want and the mafia boss will bail you out. The funny cut scene are really what 
 got me in this game they are sooooo funny!!! The wide selection allows to mowed down people with 
 a mini or head shot each one of them. After the game is finish you can simply drive around the 
 city and enjoy the sites or with the SWAT on your back which gives it alot of replay value. Overall 
 it is an absolutely amazing game WOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotplayer220
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 30, 2006 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Travel back to a time where you might not have even been born yet. Sounds interesting. In GTA Vice 
 City you are transported to a Miami like city where you play as Tommy Vercetti and lay down the 
 law by whatever means. This game is true to the time period from the cars, music, colors, fashion 
 and lingo. When your not on a mission you can cruise around at your will checkin out the sites, 
 running over pedestrians, going around in a go fast boat, or jumping the river at top speed on 
 a PCJ. You will not get bored. This game also supports a wide range of weapons at your disposal. 
 
  
  This game has an excellent storyline. There are some side missions aswell. What?, no I'm not going 
 to tell you what happens. Buy the game. Easy.
  
  Hey you like music from the 1980's? Theres lots of it to listen to when your cruising around.
 
  
  Don't like the music of the 80's? This game on PC allows you to create your own radio station and 
 add your own music. Fair deal.
  
  This is a Success for Rockstar and should not be missed.
  
  Who knows.... maybe you will become 
 the next "Pink Golf Cart Assasin" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hal_25
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Gta vice city is a masterpiece, and a incredible achievment. Its reccommendeble to any one yous 
 a big fan of action games. 
  
  The highlight of the game is proberly the gameplay, there is a huge number of cars to drive in 
 the game and theres plenty places to explore. 
  gta 3 was good but vice city is alot better simply because liberty ciy in gta 3 was dark and wasnt 
 really that colorful. Whereas vice city has lots of colorful bright places in the game.
  
  its a very good game on the pc because the graphics are a bit better than the ps2 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rajind3
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 28, 2006 2:23 am PT
Review:  This is the game just right for me. The Helcopter took a little bit of time to learn but this is 
 great! I even know how toget infinite money too! Do the tank missions. Just use the cheat PANZER 
 and start. Keep doing the missions to get more than $15 000 in less than 10 levels! And the missions 
 are too easy! You have got to try it! It's like the coolest game in Action Adventure!!!!! Lucky 
 the babies can't play the game! GTA 1and 2 SUCK!!! GTA 3, Vice city and Liberty city rocks! Now 
 have $78 000. That's alot! YOU HAVE GOT TO BUY THIS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brand_3000lee
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 23, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  This is one really good game that I recommend for everyone to have or at least played. Even if 
 you aren't a fan of GTA III, I will still recommend you to have a go of this game. This game isn't 
 very long to do with missions, but has good freeplay mode and extra bonus stuff. The graphics of 
 the game are fine for the PC, and the sound is pretty good to. This is a game that is just really 
 good, I would say this game is better than GTA San Andreas, as GTA San Andreas has alot of repetitiveness, 
 and isn't the same after you have played GTA Vice City. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justdivine
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto Vice City is the most enjoyable game I've ever played my entire life! (with & 
 without cheats!) Cheers!!
  
  Rockstar TM Rocks Hard. This game is so addictive that hardcore gamers can go without food & water 
 for days (smiles sheepishly) .
  
  Now it is more than 2 years since I have been playing this amazing game and whenever I come across 
 keywords like GTA or Grand Theft Auto or Vice City, all I can possibly think of is installing the 
 game back again & letting my inner gamer-genius lose all over again! Whoa! what a rush!
  
  Although I have completed 100% thrice (once without cheats) but I never find a reason not to play 
 this game right from the start all over again!
  
  I would rate this game as 9/10 as I've still to complete the more recent & their last release "Grand 
 Theft Auto - San Andreas". My Gamer Instincts tell me that I would not be dissappointed. *_^
  
  ~Glady S~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Percypoo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 17, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  For those who don't know Grand Theft Auto Vice cIty is the 4th installment of GTA series. I've 
 never played on San Andreas but I can tell that I'ts far better, but even if you've already played 
 it, you'll still find Vice City a great enjoyment. You get about a hundred action packed non linear 
 missions following a slow relaxed plot line, tons of awesome weapons from Uzis to chainsaws to multi 
 barreled machine guns and many many more and loads of hot cars, ( bloodring banger racers, infernus 
 sports cars) , and other veichles such as motor bikes, helicopters, sea planes and rhino tanks. You'll 
 be entertained for 25 hours completing all the missions alone.
  
  But get the pc version is far better graphically, with clearer visuals and higher resolutions especially 
 for those players with big screens. To add to that the controls are easier and you don't have to 
 use the unpredictable auto aim of the console versions.
  
  Get it for pc for the BEST expeirience! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyler_is_kool
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2006 3:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is not good as San Andreas but it is still very fun. The bad things about this game is 
 that when the cops are chasing you and hit you your car 
  goes flying like it waighs 3 pounds. The good thing about vice city is that you can buy safe houses ( 
 you couldn't in part 3) you can go to a mall and you can buy lots of wepons and you can go to a 
 stadiam and do races. There is alot of side mission you can do. The story line missions are really 
 FUN!
  Graphics-The graphics are really good for 2002.
  Sound- The sound of the guns are good and vice city has really good radio station to listen to 
 music.
  gameplay. vice city is really fun i played vice city for more than 100 hours and it didnt get that 
 boring because there is alot of things to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vmcvkycb
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 24, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  If you still like GTAIII despite playing the second latest, then you'd like it. You gain certain 
 things that are in SA than 3 but not everything, which can be frustrating at times, but still fun 
 every now and then. the biggest let down is that you can buy the properties but can't cheat for 
 the cash!
  
  the game music is a bit retarded but what do you expect, it is from 1980 something. the graphics 
 are sharp, although the pinkness isn't too much appreciated.
  
  If you're a mod downloader, be careful here as some get a bit messed up. A good game and worth 
 a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxgangsta
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 22, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  Well i gues vice city is second best game in gta series , story line isnt very long and there isnt 
 much of story here but i gues its pretty good , i liked one thing that in this game you can buy 
 property and make it on your asset... thats why i liked Grand theft auto : vice city, cars are much 
 better than in gta 3 , graphics good and sound i liked sound , because in this part your player 
 talks not like in gta 3... Anather thing that i liked here is that here were few street races , 
 i dont like them , but few you can give it a try 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AINISA
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 18, 2006 12:47 am PT
Review:  The 2nd best game on pc. its graphics aren't as good as the ps2's or xbox's but it makes up for 
 that in the mods u can install for it. the best thing about this game is the MTA mod that brings 
 in online multiplayer. more great mods for this game is map editing and the maps u can install 
 like private island. ulitamte vice city mod is awsome and vice city 2004 is really realistic. this 
 game is great for ppl who don't have consoles or r gamecubers and have pcs so they can finally 
 experience on of the best games ever
  
  I giw 8.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FranKrig
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 12, 2006 6:24 am PT
Review:  After GTA III and that's a real gut game the game heirs has a ugly Sony graphic and cam control. 
 It's the wrung way if you know the word development. Thanks SONY 5 years trowed back. THANKS! 
 ! !
  
  Now I hat enough of your giant capitalistic dictatorship throwing the PC gaming years back not 
 to mention the idiotic camera dictator twisting the directions around so a direction is not a direction, 
 if the Fuxkxxg cam must and have to move so the PS2 is able to read and write the graphic. 
  BUT I dont care about if Sony makes a console of parts the got for free because there to old and 
 slow that any serious graphic-cart producer would put them in any card at all. 
  Only Sony would take them it seams. But why do the absolutly enterfire whai the Pc. gaming and 
 damige every thing for us.
  
  Were many PC and Mac gamers suffering there decision's. 
  Believe it or not I have a PS.2. I neat to know what I'm talking about that's why.
  
  So about 
 this game; change the engine back to GTA III's or make a serious console that can run the game's 
 you want it to, and stop damiging our games just for the sake of Sony's!!!!!!. 
  I really did stop playing all PC games I own whit PS. 2 engine "or compatible whit PS.2" else I 
 would have toasted and eaten my mouse crashed my keyboard and jumped around on my computers or 
 the game-CD's. But thats not what I did. No sometimes I only spit on my PS.2 when i go past it, 
 not to mention what I could do to it out on the toilet. ;-) Just kitting NO- it should be on Sonys 
 toilet of curse.
  
  Heir SONY is a list of my PC games readdy for the DUMP because of you're capitalistic-dictatorship: 
 
  1- Legacy of Kain defiance. 
  2- Lord of the rings The King. 
  3 -Lord of the rinds the two towers. 
  4 - Prince of Persia worrier within. 
  5 - Prince of 
 Persia sand of time. 
  6 - Cat woman. 7 - GTA vice city. 
  9 - GTA vice city. 
  And many many more. just take a look at my games list here and you'll se that I have all of GTA's 
 until St. Andreas only GTA vice city is heir on the list, and I wony pay annt thing to get Gta 
 St. AnndreASS. 
  The reat on the list are also one's you crashed whit your disastrous PS2 Sony politik Stop that 
 and make your own games mend for the ones you got as novice's for your SONY religion, and KEEP 
 AWAY from the real games and gamers, if I may say so THANKS!!!!!.
  
  Ps. some how The Godfather is like Gta St. AndreAss and vice city. there manly made for the Ps 
 2 so for the Pc gamers there quid disappointing games, but for the Ps 2 gamers it's real grate 
 games. and Godfather has some real grate and funny new features. like the main characters raw and 
 tough way to convince people to support hes mafia family, yes he sure is a tough son of a bitc-bi 
 bi lol but I just hate the much too dominant music that we can't turn off ! ! the melody is okay 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: neerajkumar_4
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 2, 2006 1:08 am PT
Review:  GTA: VC:-
  
  By,
  $corpio_g@mer a. k. a Neerajkumar_4
  
  Introduction:-
  
  This game is similar to our GTA series; more like our GTAIII; basically its jus the same, you are 
 gangster and you can do anything in the city. This game dates back to 80's. You play as the Tommy 
 Vercetti. The story missions are very interesting. The saving feature is amazing; as you dont 
 have quick saving, the game is challenging.
  
  Game-Play:-
  
  In this game you have bikes, cars, boats, tanks, plane, and choppers. This game is total fun as 
 you can rob vehicles and kill people walking on the streets etc.... The police chases you when 
 ever you start to create chaos. The guns are pretty good. If you need health, you jus gotta go to 
 hospital or save the game or eat something at a restaurant or take a prostitute to a secluded place 
 ;)
  You can do stunts with your bikes (wheelie, carry , stoppie, jumps etc...) then the Car showroom 
 property mission is superb, its somewhat like the Movie ' Gone in 60 secs' .
  
  The game has a bit of A- rated stuff like the Pole-postion club (private room) and the babes in 
 bikinis at the beach !! its not suggested to be played by kids.
  
  Graphics:-
  
  The graphics are not that great but still is good enough, they are a bit cartoonish. The graphics 
 departement is just decent. The environments are good enough with decent graphics. 
  
  Sound:-
  
  Sound is pretty good! The radio stations are really nice, the MP3 player (your own 
 radio station) ; jus by adding your favorite song to the MP3 folder you can creater your own station; 
 its just amazing!!! 
  
  Conclusion:-
  
  This game in many ways is better than its amazing predecessor Grand Theft Auto III. The game has 
 an amazing storyline with amazingly kool missions. You have many side-missions to play there by 
 increasing the Game-Play time and obviously your entertainment time also. You have many MODS for 
 this game and you have skins pack to change Tommy's Skin.
  
  This game is one of the best! But i loved GTA: SA more than VC but still GTA: VC is an awesome game, 
 i remember all the routes in this game :D 
  
  This game is a must have title jus dont waste any more time and buy the game now!!!!! 
  
  Graphics 
 - 8/10
  
  Sound- 9/10
  
  Gameplay-10/10
  
  Replay Value:8/10
  
  Story: 9/10
  
  Overall- 9/10
  
  
 
  Scorpio_gamer:- Remember there is NO such thing as GAME OVER!!
  So keep GAMING.!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: galstyan
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 30, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  I love this game so much, then again I love the whole GTA lineup of games. This GTA is the one 
 that gave GTA 3 it's sense of style, yup its Vice City! The storyline of the game some thing that 
 I admire most about the game, my favorite part is the action packed gameplay. It sucks a little 
 that the graphics are sort of cheep, but then again, thats what Grand Theft Auto is about, cheep 
 graphics, excellent gameplay.
  
  If you own a PC, this is a game that you should add to your collection. You will have a great time 
 with this game even after you beat it, because of course you can mess with cops, and play around 
 with really cool mods and cheat codes. Next to San Andreas, this is my favorite game, and anyone, 
 who is anyone should get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sampaio_poa
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect 
 Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect 
 Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect 
 Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect 
 Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect 
 Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect 
 Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect 
 Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect 
 Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect 
 Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect 
 Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect 
 Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect 
 Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect 
 Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect 
 Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. Perfect Game.. v 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cjhrules
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  I usually only like adventure game but this game must be one of the best games ever made. The thing 
 I like about this game is the "feeling". It is incredible. The radiostations with all it's soundtracks 
 included are just perfect. I must say this game is amazing. 
  
  You really feel like you are a "bad guy" trying to work his way up. The graphic, the gameplay, 
 the missions and the feeling of that you can do whatever you want is great.
  
  Sometimes I get in the game and played it even though I have already completed it to 100%
  
 
  After playing this amazing game I had high hope for GTA San Andreas but it was a quite boring 
 game. The feeling in that game doesn't even come close to this one. 
  
  If you havn't played it for some reason... PLAY IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sherifelgohary
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 21, 2006 5:40 am PT
Review:  The most anticipated game of 2002 has been released, the sequel (more of a prequel) to the over 
 night cult classic game of the year, Grand Theft Auto 3. GTA3 was the first of the previous 3 GTA 
 titles to go 3-D on the PS2 in 2001 and become one of the greatest and most innovative action/adventure 
 titles on it. The GTA title alone has taken most gamers with a PS out of their morally innocent 
 parents homes and perfect societies and thrown them in a world where crime is the only way to 
 make a name for yourself, and a lot of fun at that. The title is famous for its easy as 1-2-3 car 
 jacking game play and its aint nutin but a thug theme, and Vice City is all that in a retro 
 80s setting. While GTA3 was set in a modern day district with a number of fashions and cars recognizable 
 with the 90s, Vice City takes place around 10 years before GTA3, that means youll be pimping 
 big time in a Don Johnson styled Miami district in your retro Halston suit while your breaking 
 the law with an 80s soundtrack featuring bands like Judas Priest to Blondie.
  
  In this installment youll play as Tommy Vercetti (voiced by Ray Liotta from the famous mobster 
 movie Goodfellas) , a cold blooded wise guy who was just released from the big house with intensions 
 of becoming the richest name in Vice City through a method of organized crime that sends him in 
 through gang wars, whack jobs, and eventual real-estate monopolies. Tommy, sent by the gang lord 
 Sonny Forelli, eventually uses up Vice Cities most valuable resources to build his own empire like 
 up and coming porn star Candy Suxx (voiced by real life porn sensation Jenna Jameson) and his hot 
 shot, street assailant Lance Vance (voiced by Philip Michael Thomas) . Tommy later learns that his 
 business is more powerful than he ever expected and with power comes deceit and trust problems 
 as it seems everyone from gangsters to his own partners want a piece of his empire, not to mention 
 Sonny who feels that letting Tommy out of prison entitles him to a percent of his profits, somewhere 
 around the margins of.100%!
  
  Though very similar to GTA3, Vice City has a brighter/more beautiful environment taking you from 
 the crystal clear banks of Vice City beaches to the ghetto stricken suburbs of Little Haiti, a 
 wider range of cars taken from over 150 80s models, and much more goals and crazy suicidal missions 
 to keep you playing for weeks if you dare take the GTA challenge of completing 100% of the game 
 as shown on your menu. I have heard a bunch of people dissing this game that worshiped GTA3, I 
 think if this game came out before GTA3 they would be saying the exact opposite though, but this 
 game was not a disappointment to me at least. Vice City has no major issues besides being band 
 in most households with kids younger than 13 (for a good reason too.) and stood as one of the best 
 games of the year. This game is a one of a kind trip to a not-so-distant past many remember living 
 in and has a little something for all types of gamers, racing fans should dig the endless supply 
 of cars and ton of racing missions you stumble upon, action shooting fans should also be pleased 
 running around in the no limit shooting range we call Vice City with an arsenal of machine guns 
 and Molotov cocktail bombs, and if nothing else, you could spend days cruising around Vice City 
 with nothing else to do but go on an all out apocalyptic rampage destroying everything in your 
 way from gangs to the national army in helicopters, motorcycles, and armored vehicles galore! This 
 game is like playing out the hit gangster movie Scarface, everything from the plot twists to the 
 Vercetti mansion reminds us of the horrors of Columbian crime life Al Pacino portrayed oh so well 
 as Tony Montana. So overall, this is one game that shouldnt be missed by anyone with a PS2, same 
 goes for GTA3 as well, they are the games you recently bought the system for considering this little 
 gem is only for the PS2! (Thank god too because PS2 seems to be loosing some of its key titles 
 in the future.)
  
  Gameplay:
  Its extremely difficult to describe the gameplay in less than 3000 characters with total coverage 
 because, well, lets just say that youd need to save up all of your sick days and play it for maybe 
 a week to complete it 100% as not to take up your personal life for the next two months or so! 
 Your main mission in Vice City is to turn this town in to your own personal cabbage factory if 
 you know what I mean. Remember money talks, and it seems to be better educated than most of the 
 gangsters in this game because it finds its way to you by anything from murder to briefcases to 
 even collisions. Like GTA3, the best and most amusing way to rake in the moola is to get contracts 
 from various gang leaders you meet from the beginning and run in to through out the game, though 
 the main storyline has you working with Alex Shrub and various other assistants they are all 
 chained to. But you could also get large bundles of money through other small time gang related 
 contracts like the Haitians, Cubans, or even managing businesses like a taxi company, ice cream 
 truck scandal, and even a late night kitten club! (Meow!)
  
  Next on our list of get rich quick schemes are the suicidal missions, there are mass murder (skull) 
 icons that like in the other GTAs give you time limits and a fun new toy to go on a killing spree 
 with a cash bonus if completed, there are races and hidden stunt jumps if you can snatch a fast 
 ride, and of course there are 100 hidden packages full of the green stuff for you to uncover. As 
 for your arsenal in Vice City, you get about 12 different weapons of mass destruction and two different 
 types of each fire arm, so make that about 20 different weapons in this seemingly harmless City.
 
  
  And then there is the transportation in Vice City, most people would say the one thing GTA3 should 
 have had was the ability to fly, but the closest you can get to that is a grounded little plane 
 called the Dodo. Well unlike Liberty City, Vice takes you to the end of the world without needing 
 to make freak landings for gas, which means that copters are now open for your enjoyment! Not only 
 that but now you can travel the mean streets of Vice in 2 wheelers ranging from mopeds to Harleys. 
 Of course you can still rip off any vehicle occupied or not, but now they give you the option of 
 bailing out of your vehicles in the heat of the moment, but the collisions are still pretty cheap, 
 you can now collide your 2 wheelers with a truck and still be on the hog! Overall there is a number 
 more of things you can do in Vice City, youll just have to find them out for yourself.
  
  Graphics:
  Cops, Columbian and Cuban OH MY!
  
  The graphics are about the same as GTA3, you 
 still get an enormously detailed new world to explore thats built to perfection, but the characters 
 are still about as blocky as in GTA3. I have to say this is the most beautiful environment Ive 
 seen in any game as well, even Vice Cities lighting moods with its gorgeous red sun set and illuminating 
 night life make it a real shame you have to bring it to its knees! If I didnt know any better, 
 like the London setting in the Getaway, Id think maybe there was such a place in the 80s called 
 Vice City. I also have to add if there was an award for most fashionably beautiful game, Id simply 
 hand the award over to Vice, you get everyone from Mods, to material girls, to the suave Italian 
 Guido dressing tough guys you might have seen in your earlier years. So though the chunky characters 
 and fuzzy frame rate bring its grade down a notch, if you take a helicopter trip around Vice City 
 at any time of the day, youll see why character models were the least of the designers concerns, 
 overall it gets a 4.5 in graphics.
  
  Sound:
  Blasted from the past!
  
  Without a doubt, the sound has gotten a much needed upgrade for a game that centralizes around 
 a time periods attitudes and musical trends. In GTA3, you play as a character that doesnt even 
 deserve a name because he doesnt talk or react in any real situation, he has no personality and 
 yet seems to be able to hook up with the godfathers daughter, make secret packs with various gang 
 ring leaders, and become a marked man on other gang leaders hit lists. In this game not only do 
 they give the main character a dirty little mind of his own, but they get some of the top movie 
 stars of today like Ray Liotta and Burt Reynolds to do their voices.
  
  Another key element in Vice City, compared to any game, is the huge soundtrack that captures the 
 essences of the glam bam 80s. In the GTA3 we were forced to listen to an original soundtrack of 
 unmentionable make-believe artists on various radio stations as we were being chased by the man 
 in our banshees, but in Vice City, the 80s come alive through you favorite and least favorite 
 real life artists. Unlike most any other games, the soundtrack has something for all of our tastes, 
 whether you like the pop sensations like Michael Jackson, emerging rap artists like Grandmaster 
 Flash, hair metal hits like Motley Crue, or even some original talk radio programs that can amuse 
 us or give us hints through out the monstrously confusing Vice City. The sound effects havent 
 really gotten too much of an upgrade from GTA3, and the sound of car collisions are still a bit 
 unrealistic, but the sudden sound of a coppers siren on your tail, echoing boom of a magnum, and 
 funny little one-line reactions you get from the citizens of Vice city are enough to fulfill your 
 gang banging fantasies.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lyen
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 14, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  More selection, more surprises, a game that doesn't bore you. The graphic is superb, but still 
 quite dull. The action of the character is not so limited like the last time, and the map is much 
 big and much complicated this time. The difficulty of the mission has increased, makes the game 
 more exciting, and makes gamers more determine to play. Many interesting extra features has been 
 added to it and it makes the game more colourful. Overall it's a very nice game to play, as it 
 retains the originality of the last three episodes, and it didn't loose the creativity that it 
 should have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 497573
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 12, 2006 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Este fue mi primer GTA que juegu y me parecin genial. Pero debi analizar este juego para darle 
 una calificacion apropiada. Las grficas fueron buenas, a pesar de que es un juego de PC , pero 
 a la larga nos dejamos llevar del entretenimiento. La iluminacion que se dan en las calles, el 
 reflejo en los autos, y los efectos de clima que se muestran en este juego son muy buenos, pero 
 no llegan a la excelencia (desgraciadamente) .
  SONIDO. Fenomenal, me gust mucho las estaciones de radio, el escuchar musica de los 80, hace que 
 GTA sea un juego que te haga bailar mientras vas manejando. No solo la msica, sino tambien el 
 tan `pasivo` trnsito, los diferentes comentarios de los transeuntes (en especial de los Haitianos 
 y Cubanos) , ademas de las tan familiares sirenas de policas y ambulancias que rondan Vice City.
 
  JUGABILIDAD. Excelente. GTA a demostrado ser un juego en el que no solo te didicas a robar y manejar, 
 sino tambien que podras controlar un juguete a control remoto, las exitantes carreras por toda 
 la ciudad, probar tu agilidad con una moto, afinar tu punteria, e incluso pasearte por toda la 
 ciudad buscando objetos oculatos.
  
  Sin duda alguna GTA: Vice City es un juego al que nunca te cansaras de jugarlo. No importa cuantas 
 veces lo juegues, siempre tendrs esa 'chispa' que lo hace emocionante y nos haga fluir la adrenalina 
 por nuestro cuerpo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UmaSama
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 10, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  The first few hours playing this game were really fun, it had an awesome ambientation, especially 
 with the music and the clothing, but it wasn't enough, don't get me wrong if your looking for a 
 free game in wich to do lots of mess and brake a lot of rules this is your game, but if you're 
 looking for a good story mode (as I am) then just as myself you'll get dissapointed.
  What really dissapointed me was the story, wich is kinda dull and it doesn't connect the way it 
 should with the secondary missions, as an example I played the history missions leaving the secondary 
 ones for later, and what happened was that though I was a real kingpin I found myself running errands 
 for crappy crime bosses, add to that the fact that I had to play an extra 7 hours buying properties 
 and completting the assets just to be able to unlock the final 2 core missions, wich by the way 
 were absolutly bad and easy.
  So the conclusion is: don't see Vice City as a game with a main story but as a free crime and shooting 
 game with a background (crappy) story.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhil_sharma
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 9, 2006 3:57 am PT
Review:  Gta vice city is an brilliant game. In which your name is Tommy Vercity. There
  are dozens of missions in which you will have fun to play. You can drive bikes in this gta version 
 as you cannot drive bikes in Gta 3. The game is long so you will have fun to play. The graphics are 
 fine but if you play it on highest (1024*768) you will have fantastic graphics. The graphics of 
 your car is amazing. The sound is also great I have a nice sound card so I had
  fun to play and listen. You will have fun to shoot others with dozens of guns.
  You can perform 
 head shots. If you are going to buy a new game you definitely buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sda100175
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 8, 2006 8:22 am PT
Review:  GTA Vice City is everything a great videogame sequel should be. It stays true to the gameplay of 
 it's predecessor - any GTAIII vet will instantly feel at home in Vice City. But there's so much 
 more...
  
  First, the setting. Vice City is mid-80's Miami, with all the great stereotypes: beaches, run-down 
 Little Havana and Haiti, neon-splashed nightclubs, posh estates for the rich, cocaine, palm trees, 
 the setting is just great. And the music this time around is real 80's hit tracks. The city itself 
 is also significantly larger than Liberty City.
  
  Second, the story. Vice City has a much more flushed out story than GTAIII. You actually have a 
 name this time, and the action and missions build up from you being just out of jail to taking 
 over the city. The narrative is cohesive, not like GTAIII where you were basically just "Mr Odd-Job" 
 for whatever boss.
  
  Third, the gameplay additions. Everything, and I mean everything, from GTAIII returns: package 
 hunts, sniper missions, cops, boat missions, playing cabbie, cop and fireman, etc. There are more 
 gameplay elements now, though. You can fly helicopters, which is "teh cool". You can buy property, 
 like nightclubs and strip joints. You can deliver pizzas on a moped, and sell ice cream from Mr. 
 Whoopie. And you can drive motorcycles!
  
  If you loved GTAIII and haven't played Vice City, you are missing out on a great time. It's a fantastic 
 sequel that improves upon GTAIII in every way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knight_44
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 5, 2006 5:31 am PT
Review:  vice city makes u feel like a king of a free roaming world, with lots of stuff to do. vice city is 
 based on 80s miami. cool graphics and good storyline makes it worth playing. so if u have missed 
 this game, it still not too late to get it. Game consists of many missions, different vehicles and 
 loads of weapons to create a havoc.
  I have completed the game but still I love it to play at different times. Sound is the best thing 
 that game offers. Game offers almost 15-20 hours of game play. The city looks nice and people varies 
 from one area to other. Love it or hate it but GTA: VC is one of the best games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuipstoel
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 19, 2006 8:34 am PT
Review:  As good as San Andreas. You play Tommy Vercetti. A dude who look like Elvis before he died fat. 
 You must do missions and take over te city. The cars are not real but they are nice made and they 
 just look like real cars. You got a Banshee (Corvette) , Voodoo ( '59 Impala) with hydraulics and 
 more cool and fast cars. The weapons are cool, the classic Uzi, Mp5, .357 Magnum, AK 47, M4 and 
 more weapons and knives. There are motorbikes too. Got 2 Choppers, a cross bike a sport bike, Pizza 
 scooter and a normal scooter. And this are not all the vehicles.
  Wanna go somewhere fast and dont got a car. catch a plane or buy your own helicopter. Got different 
 models.
  Like to cruise on the waterways of Vice City on a boring day. No worries, ot boats to. A speedboat, 
 a dinghy a cruise boat and very modern sailboat. All boats got different colors. Dont want to play 
 the missions? And olso dont wanna cruise? But still want make money. You can always go work at 
 a pizza shop. Or be the best cop in Vice City. Or stars your own taxi company.
  Like to help people? Jack a ambulance and save the humans. Are you more a adrenalin type? Go and 
 worke at the fire departament. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -supercharged-
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 11, 2006 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto: Vice City has almost everything you could ask for in a free-roam action adventure 
 game with a few exceptions of course. The gameplay is executed perfectly in this game, I highly 
 suggest playing with a controller for the PC version. The keyboard definately isnt made for this 
 type of game. You get plenty of cars, trucks, bikes, boats, helicopters ect ect to mess around 
 in. The graphics are very nice and it has awesome lighting. The story is very addictive but also 
 gives you quite a few side missions to mess around with. 
  
  Overall if you don't own this game yet, Do yourself a favor and go buy it now!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephiroth2007
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 6, 2006 11:51 am PT
Review:  the 2nd best game on pc. its graphics aren't as good as the ps2's or xbox's but it makes up for 
 that in the mods u can install for it. the best thing about this game is the MTA mod that brings 
 in online multiplayer. more great mods for this game is map editing and the maps u can install 
 like private island. ulitamte vice city mod is awsome and vice city 2004 is really realistic. this 
 game is great for ppl who don't have consoles or r gamecubers and have pcs so they can finally 
 experience on of the best games ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FronzenShock987
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 6, 2006 5:26 am PT
Review:  This is the best Grand Theft Auto EVER! The gameplay rocks. The story line is very simple. This 
 missions are great, nothing sucks in the missions, exploring the map, and many others. Feels like 
 you can do anything in this game. Steal cars, beat people up, find secrets in the game, drive around 
 Vice City and many more. But this game has something that does not make this game a 10.0. Do you 
 why? Well, it's the graphics that make the game kinda, not make you want to play this game. For 
 example, in few of the movies before you actually begin the mission ( right after activating the 
 mission ) , they show you a video. Very short. The graphics are very simple. The hand of the characters 
 in the movie, looks awful. You could hardly see their fingers. The four fingers ( Pinkie, the finger 
 beside the Pinkie, the middle finger, and the index finger ) looks as if they were one HUGE finger. 
 This graphics, have'nt improved much from Grand Theft Auto III. 
  
  The sound isn't really special in a special way. While your in a vehicle, you can listen to MP3 
 musics that you've save in your MP3 file. Same as Grand Theft Auto III. But the other FREE 1 second 
 sound music ( not really a music ) stinks!
  
  But still even if the graphics was a little down from Grand Theft Auto San Andreas, It's still 
 the best in the series. Overall GTA: VC is still the un beatable game in the whole history of GTA. 
 Best in the series I can tell you.
  
  This game is about 59.99$. Not really expensive. And very fun. Very original from GTA III.
  
 
  Later.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nbaliveonstage
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 4, 2006 2:40 pm PT
Review:  If by some chance you've put off playing Vice City up till now, don't wait any longer. 
  Grand Theft Auto: Vice City for the PC needs no introduction. Not only is this game in many ways 
 better than its amazing predecessor Grand Theft Auto III, but it's also technically superior to 
 the original version of Vice City that was released on the PlayStation 2 a number of months ago. 
 Like GTAIII for the PC, Vice City is identical to the original PS2 version in terms of content, 
 so if you've already played that version to death, you won't find the PC version to be much different. 
 However, the PC version of Vice City does offer enhanced visuals and controls, improved loading 
 times, and a few extra frills. More importantly, it offers the same refreshingly open-ended gaming 
 experience, which has occasionally been reviled for its controversial subject matter, but has far 
 more often elicited much-deserved praise. Simply put, if by some chance you've put off playing 
 Vice City up till now, don't wait any longer. 
  
  
  GTA: Vice City is an excellent follow-up to what was an amazing game to begin with. 
  To be clear, 
 Vice City is an extension of Grand Theft Auto III, rather than a completely overhauled sequel. 
 That's definitely a good thing, because GTAIII's freestyle gameplay was extremely entertaining 
 and offered tremendous replay value, yet still had more potential. Vice City fulfills a lot of 
 that potential, as it features improved production values (including over eight hours of licensed 
 music and plenty of Hollywood voice actors) , new types of drivable vehicles (motorcycles, helicopters, 
 and golf carts) , new weapons, better vehicle damage modeling, indoor environments, and more. 
 
  
  Yet the most obvious difference between GTAIII and Vice City is that in the new game, you're in 
 a brand-new setting, a sprawling city styled after Miami, Florida, circa 1986. Laced with neon 
 and featuring miles of beachfront property, Vice City simply looks a lot more pleasant than GTAIII's 
 oppressive New York City-inspired Liberty City. Nevertheless, like Liberty City, Vice City is actually 
 a den of corruption and evil. And it's your playground. You're free to roam Vice City on foot or 
 in any manner of vehicle you can get your hands on, and you can undertake a wide variety of action-packed 
 missions, explore the town, wreak havoc, or whatever. The game's convincing physics and terrific 
 atmosphere make any of the huge variety of activities available in Vice City enjoyable in themselves, 
 and even greater than the sum of their parts when you put them all together. You'd be hard-pressed 
 to find a single-player action game with more variety than this one, and Vice City will more than 
 likely surprise and impress you even if you've already played GTAIII to death. 
  
  Rather than put you in the role of a nameless, voiceless antihero like GTAIII, Vice City lets you 
 assume the role of Tommy Vercetti, a tough guy who has just gotten out of the slammer. He gets 
 himself back into trouble fast when a drug deal goes bad and he barely makes it out alive, so the 
 basic plot of the game is to get the drug money back and take out the double-crossers. In so doing, 
 you'll get to kill all your enemies, buy up the town's priciest hot spots, and eventually become 
 Vice City's resident crime lord. Vercetti, who is expertly voiced by Ray Liotta, is a likable and 
 memorable protagonist, and many of the other characters he'll meet, like a crooked lawyer and a 
 South American crime boss with an explosive temper, are also well done. 
  
  
  As Tommy Vercetti, you'll have a lot of dirty work to do, but you'll have a blast getting the job 
 done. 
  Vice City pays closer attention to its characters, making the proceedings seem more cinematic and 
 more story-driven than GTAIII, which was criticized in the mainstream media for letting people 
 live out their sociopathic fantasies. Regardless, if you were surprised by GTAIII's unflinching 
 portrayal of mature content, be advised that Vice City doesn't pull any punches either. And, like 
 GTAIII, Vice City somehow brings to bear a truly inspired dark sense of humor amid all its violence 
 and chaos. Smartly written dialogue, scathing social critique and caricatures, and a remarkably 
 well-done depiction of '80s excess make Grand Theft Auto: Vice City far more than just a game about 
 causing mayhem. 
  
  The story missions in Vice City are generally more complex and often more entertaining than those 
 of GTAIII. They're multiple-stage affairs, often requiring you to take out various targets, make 
 deliveries to key areas, drop someone off in exchange for something, and so on. They're fun, and 
 they also do a great job of introducing you to Vice City's gameplay and new features. You usually 
 have multiple missions to choose from at any given moment, and, true to the game's open-ended nature, 
 many of the missions play out quite differently if you attempt them multiple times. Like in GTAIII, 
 you can also steal squad cars, ambulances, fire trucks, and now even pizza-delivery mopeds and 
 take on various peripheral missions in them, all of which make for fun diversions. The game's save 
 system, which requires you to constantly return to a specific save point, is identical to that 
 of GTAIII, so it might slightly frustrate those accustomed to being able to save anywhere and at 
 any time. But since the missions aren't that long, being able to save your progress only in between 
 missions simply helps maintain the game's pacing, forcing you to accomplish each of your objectives 
 in one, dramatic take
  Of all the additions to the gameplay, the new vehicles are the highlight. Various types of motorcycles 
 and helicopters join a huge variety of cars, trucks, vans, boats, planes, and more, letting you 
 get around Vice City however you wish. Just like the cars, the motorcycles and choppers handle 
 convincingly, and the motorcycles in particular allow you to reach some ridiculously high speeds 
 and pull off some truly insane stunts, if you so choose. The game's vehicle physics are realistic 
 only for the sake of fun and visual authenticity. The vehicles handle very well even when they've 
 been beaten up front and back. 
  
  
  Vice City features new types of vehicles, including motorcycles, helicopters, and sea planes. 
 
  Like in GTAIII, some of the best moments in Vice City are when the cops are hot on your trail. 
 They won't go after you if you run a red light, but if you commit a serious crime in front of them, 
 they'll give chase. The more mayhem you cause, the more serious the opposition will get, and soon 
 enough the cops will be setting up roadblocks and calling for reinforcements from police choppers, 
 the FBI, and eventually the National Guard. You'll even come up against undercover vice squads, 
 in their fancy sports cars and pastel suits. The enemy AI isn't quite perfect, as you'll notice 
 when your foes try in vain to shoot you through solid walls when indoors. But Vice City's few minor 
 blemishes are easily forgivable, since they don't get in the way of the action. 
  
  The PC version of Vice City, like GTAIII before it, features a default mouse-and-keyboard control 
 scheme that works great. Using it, you can easily control any of the game's vehicles, and on foot, 
 the mouse allows you to aim your weapons as in a first-person shooter. You can also opt to play 
 with a gamepad, to mimic the PS2 version's controls and its auto-aim feature. 
  
  Vice City looks better on the PC than on the PlayStation 2 thanks to sharpened textures and higher 
 resolutions. You can also adjust the draw distance either to improve your frame rate or be able 
 to see much farther toward the horizon on higher-end machines. The game runs smoothly on systems 
 that exceed its minimum requirements, though you might spot an occasional hiccup in the frame rate 
 when the play disc is being accessed. The artistry of Vice City's graphics and the realistic physics 
 of its vehicles do much to compensate for what's an otherwise technically unremarkable presentation. 
 No, these aren't the sharpest textures in the world, and the vehicles and characters aren't made 
 up of an obscene number of pixel-shaded polygons or anything, but Vice City's graphics have a great 
 amount of style and a good level of detail. Fans of GTAIII will love how many of Vice City's vehicles 
 are earlier models of the vehicles from that game, and how they're clearly inspired by real-world 
 '80s autos. Also, the stylized characters featured in the game's well-choreographed and entertaining 
 cutscenes use convincing facial expressions and lip-synching, which helps the story sequences a 
 lot. 
  
  Despite all its other great qualities, Grand Theft Auto: Vice City's audio turns out to be one 
 of the best things about it. Like all the other GTA games before it, Vice City features a soundtrack 
 that consists of the various radio stations you'll be listening to as you drive around in stolen 
 vehicles. These are themed after the sorts of stations you'd expect to hear in '80s-era Miami: 
 There's a new-wave station, a rock station, a rap station, a metal station, and even a Spanish-language 
 station, plus a couple of talk-radio stations for good measure. Suffice it to say that there are 
 hours upon hours of recognizable radio hits from all genres of '80s music on this soundtrack, so 
 even if you never touched the game's controls, you'd practically be getting your money's worth 
 out of this game just by virtue of its being an excellent compilation of '80s tunes. The radio 
 stations all have their own DJs, many of whom are very well written characters in their own right, 
 and you'll even hear radio spots that cleverly mock the sorts of products that made the rounds 
 in that era. Vice City's audio ultimately deserves most of the credit for establishing the game's 
 atmosphere, and other than the soundtrack and voice acting, the sound effects for all the various 
 vehicles and weapons are spot on. 
  
  
  Vice City's nasty police force makes for a ruthless and challenging opponent. 
  Like GTAIII for 
 the PC, Vice City offers an instant-replay feature that you can use whenever you manage to pull 
 off a truly one-of-a-kind stunt, escape, or killing spree. You can even save your replays if you 
 want. You can also create new skins for Tommy, if you want to change his appearance for some reason 
 (though you'll see him wearing a variety of outfits over the course of the game anyway) . And, if 
 all the '80s music isn't good enough for you, you can load up a bunch of MP3 files and listen to 
 those on the radio instead. All this is icing on the cake. 
  
  After the incredible success of GTAIII, it was difficult to imagine Scotland-based developer Rockstar 
 North following up with a comparably outstanding game, especially after just one year. But that's 
 what Vice City is. It's similar to GTAIII only as much as necessary, and it boasts so much new 
 content and so many new types of vehicles to drive and exciting missions to experience that it 
 is certainly not just an attempt to further cash in on GTAIII's success. No, this is an exceptionally 
 good action game, whether you consider it on its own merits, or measure it against the incredibly 
 high standards of its predecessor. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjj13
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2006 2:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is real fun. Let's start out with the missions. The missions are real fun. Some of them 
 could be hard, while some of them you will fly through. Vice City Offers a great atmophere. It 
 brings the game to life. For the graphics made back then, the are really good. The side jobs get 
 boring quick. I think they shouldn't be in this game. If you buy this game get it for pc. You would 
 be able to download or make mods or even play online with MTA. I hoped this helped you buy this 
 game! If it did please recomend this review.
  
  -jjj13 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simpsons_tv
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 30, 2006 6:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is really fun. Whether you like to complete missions, search for hidden items, or just 
 wander around, this game has lots of variety for everyone.
  
  The gameplay is solid. The controls are straight-forward on foot and in vehicles. One thing to 
 note is that you cannot save during a mission. There should have been checkpoints for longer missions.
 
  
  The graphics are good looking. The city looks detailed and crisp, while the people look a little 
 bland and blocky.
  
  Music is amazing in this game. There are tons of 80's songs to listen to on various in-game radio 
 channels. Plus, you can listen to your on MP3s in the game, if you choose so.
  
  Vice City is filled with things for you to do. Race cars, fly helicopters, run away from cops, 
 race in dirkbikes, drive passengers in cabs, and many more things to do that are just as entertaining 
 as the missions themselves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GCrocksPS
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 30, 2006 7:11 am PT
Review:  As a follow up from GTA 3, vice city works really well and has great graphics. Although blowing 
 someone up may be satisfying for you, it does get boring and once you've completed stroy mode you 
 could just put it down and forget it.
  This is the shortest review I've ever written, but there isn't really much to say. Yes it's a good 
 game with some well done graphics, a great story mode and some fun missions, it is possible to 
 get bored after a while, and the only way to put fun back in is by cheating.
  Don't get me wrong, it is a brilliant game, but it's still just GTA 3, souped up with a few more 
 fun parts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Knight2000
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 27, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  
  GTA: vice city is set in teh mid-eighties which is before the events of GTA3. its about a man named 
 tommy vercite who comes from Liberty city down to Vice city ( Miami) for a business deal. Then, 
 the deal goes wrong and Tommy has to fix otherwise .... u know, six feet under. 
  
  Vice city is better than its predecessor in a number of ways. graphics, graphics are better than 
 in GTA 3 thou not by much, but things like water effects and car crashs are aloot better. sound, 
 the same but the radio stations this time are more and nearly three times longer. 
  
  gameplay, the gameplay is the real huge addition, sooo much more can be done. more cars, motorbikes, 
 a huge number of helicopters and a new flybale version of the infamous dodo. more weapons, buy 
 property and u can even change ur clothes. some much has been added. the islands r nearly twice 
 as big as the liberty city, so u'll alot more to do.
  
  instead of just reading alll that. i severly recommend this game to any1 because of its unbelivel 
 gameplay. 
  
  just play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adijan
Rating: 10
Date: May 8, 2006 5:07 pm PT
Review:  GTA has done it again and gave us GTA VC a game where you can drive new cool cars, shoot and kill, 
 drive helicopters, and more.
  
  Graphics - Are like any other GTA game but this time the G; s have improved.
  
  Sound - very 
 well done and remarkable, good music, good actors, good everything.
  
  Gameplay - fun, creative, and will be a bit hard at first but you will adapt to it!
  
  The 
 game does deliver more thasn it says like new features, new costumes, new pedestrians to kill, 
 new missions, and new weapons. There are some parts where you can pilot boats and go into arenas. 
 Plus once you go in the water you start to drown now thats pretty dumb to me. But the bright side 
 is that there is a great big@SS white shark in the small lake witht he river going through it . 
 
  
  Over-allt he game does improve greatly and does show us the great plessuer in what one can do as 
 of being in a vertual world. 
  
  Recommended yes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superb_01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  This Grand theft ato at it's launch was the best .The story is amazing you are a guy named Tommy 
 Vercetti you work for a mafia guy named Sony Forelli and you owe him money an you gotta do missions 
 for the money.
  Yes like the Previous one. But the vehicules and the envirement is what you gotta check out. You 
 get tones of new weapons. And now you can change clothes.
  
  The graphics is not perfect but for a game that has lots of things to work at is just awsome. The 
 sounds are cool the gameplay is awsome nothin better. And now you can crouch! but you cant move 
 by crouching. Still it is the second best GTA i have ever played.
  
  I am giving Vice City a 9.7! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meischris39
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 17, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  Gta Vice City the follow up to Gta 3 is set in the lusious fantabutlistic 80's. Where Tommy Vercetti 
 is being hunted down by mob leader Sonny Foreilli
  
  Gameplay - The gameplpay is traditional gta with a few new features. Firstly the ability to pop 
 tyres has been added and bikes and helicopters which people have eagerly anticipated. With a whole 
 new city to roam around gta offeres a lot more open ended gameplay than its predecessor. The first 
 few missions are the pick people up drop them off you no. After these the game really picks itself 
 up the base storyline grips you leaving you dying to find out what will happen next. In true gta 
 fashion the humou is spot on with little querks here and there which will make you laugh.
  
  Graphics - The best graphical gta is vice city. Nice textures realistic sun effects shadowing 
 vice city has the lot. Although Rockstar have still not corrected the blocky people issues that 
 have seem to become trademark you barely notice. 
  
  Sound - Vice city has the best music and sounds that any other game in a while. With licensed tracks 
 from Michael Jackson and some Bryan adams guy. THe music rocks, it really sets the mood for the 
 typical 80's lifestyle of partying video games , and cellphones. The dj's are back with some hilarious 
 comments thatll make you not want to leave your car. Although when you do youll still be amazed 
 as the sounds of a hustle bustle life are brought to you briliantly with people commenting on you 
 birds doing there thing and the beeps of cars.
  
  Value - Gta has tremendous value which no other game can have with over 60 levels 100 hidden packages 
 unique jumps and loads more youll be playing the game for ages. Eventually when you do finish the 
 game there is still more fun to be had some of the best times i have had have been ivitin a a m8 
 over and killing random people all for fun. With tanks helicopters bazookas and golf clubs yer 
 you heard be golf clubs propa buzzin 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xiaophong
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 17, 2006 9:13 am PT
Review:  GTA vc is worth playing but it lacks the fun in gta sa and gta 3. Replay value is very low but 
 gameplay elements are fun. Vice city is recommended for fans of gta. It has a pretty solid gameplay, 
 the sound is amazing but it lacks value. Dont waste $ if you find one that is more than $19.99.
 
  
  The graphics in this game have inproved towards gta3. The city is great to explore and there are 
 many unlockables. But the real putdown is that there arnt any subway stations or train stations.
 
  
  The good: perfect sound, satifying gameplay and improved elements.
  
  The bad: horrible replay value ( beating it twice or 3 times will mke you never touch the game 
 again) , gameplay can get dull sometimes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: whgresiak
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 15, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Graphics-
  Well for a 5 year old game GTA: VC Still looks great. All the people, vehicles and buildings in 
 a huge city look great. Every little building and sidewalk has amazing detail. And to think... 
 RockStar did all of it in a year.
  
  Sound-
  The sound is superb. Every bike, plane, chopper, car, voice and collision sounds amazingly detailed 
 and different from all the others. Rockstar dishes out great voice acting and sound effects like 
 pie in a bakery.
  
  Gameplay-
  This really is where GTA shines. You can do literally anything. You can around and kill random 
 people for absolutly no reason. You can do the missions, or you could just drive around and look 
 at Vice City.
  
  Review Lowdown-
  
  Teh Good-
  Pretty much everything
  
  Teh bad-
  When cars are a distance away, and you look away, then look back, the car is gone.
 
  
  Teh Ugly-
  People think this game is so bad because of what you CAN do, not what you should do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skizz624
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 15, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  This is a fantastic game in my opinion. from start to finish there is action. when you have crime 
 lords stringing you around Vice City to keep you busy then eliminate you. The one thing they forgot 
 is Tommy doesn't want to go, but wants it all to himself. with the Miami Vice theme you will gide 
 Tommy on his journey through Vice City, where you will meet up with some un-likely allies, and 
 some who just quite aren't the friend you thought they were. your mission is to sort things out 
 with the least amount of resistance, which is kill or be killed. so hop in the nearest car and 
 let the eighties begin all over. 
  
  the game play is great. there are some easy missions and some hard missions but all being equally 
 fun. the graphics can be fuzzy at times but very realistic to a point. the sounds are realistic 
 from the roar of your harley type motorcycle to the rpg you can blow away any thug with. the sound 
 track is a flashback to the eighties with some great music and off the wall chat radio, and the 
 commercials will keep you laughing. 
  
  all in all GTA Vice City is a fun game that will keep your interest through out the whole game. 
 there are many main and side missions to keep you busy. from running down the pizza guy to having 
 to deliver the pizzas because you ran him down. you will not be bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShinDevil
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 13, 2006 6:45 pm PT
Review:  Vice City is the best GTA in series because it's a almost perfect game.
  Analyzing first of all the gameplay that is not so good, but don't gives you constantly problems. 
 The gameplay fails more at player run time, which demonstrate better this problem.
  Graphic is not so good too, but it's no problem, different of gameplay. It is not perfect (and 
 who cares?) but fits perfectly with the game style.
  Sound is the good point of the game, musics selected for each radio station and the sound quality 
 made hard don't want to turn on the radio when you steal a vehicle.
  There are a lot of "side quests" completing missions or catching tokens that give you extra abilities 
 and upgrades in the game.
  Simple to play, easy to like, Vice City is the best game to begin to play the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psycho_FreakX
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2006 10:18 pm PT
Review:  GTA (Grand Theft auto) series has always been a very popular series. GTA Vice City, which is a 
 prequel to GTA 3. In vice city the game takes place in the 80s you play as Tommy Vercetti and 
 you get to rise to the top of gangs & other criminals. 
  
  Features 
  -------------- 
  
   5th Installment in the GTA series* 
   1 Player * 
   Rated Mature * 
   Over 80 missions 
 * 
   Over 15 weapons (Uzi, Shotguns & Rocket launchers) * 
   Over 25 different vehicles* 
   A port of the PS2 version to PC * 
   Custom soundtracks 
 * 
   Support better graphics & controls * 
   Faster load times * 
  
  
  STORY / PLOT 
  --------------------------- 
  The story of this title is simply you play as 
 Tommy Vercetti you just got out of prison doing time for the family. When youre out you have to 
 do a job for a friend of yours. The job turned out sour and you lost a lot of money & drugs so 
 you have to get the money back for your friend and rise to the top of vice city. 
  
  GRAPHICS 
  ---------------- 
  The graphics are quite updated from the PS2 version. Everything 
 looks better and you can see how detailed most things are. You can simply see further down the 
 road vehicles look better especially helicopters. There are still the stupid looking characters 
 in the game. The main character look really nice & outfits looks pretty cool. Some of the vehicles 
 look pretty good while other looks rusted and ugly. There are quite a few ugly moments in the game 
 a lot of them actually. Overall the game does look better though. 
  
  GAMEPLAY 
  ---------------------- 
  GTA: Vice City have over 80 missions several different types of missions 
 to do. Everything from killing people, destroying vehicles & other type of missions. There are 
 the other great side missions such as Taxi, fire truck, rescue & vigilante missions. There are 
 also 100 hidden packages like from GTA3. This time the packages are statues and when you collect 
 all 100 you get all guns and an helicopter. The weapons are broken down in 3 different categories. 
 The categories are small, medium & large. That means handguns to machine guns & shotguns to rocket 
 launchers. Also you can now buy buildings in the game some will make you money others will not. 
 Also when you double cross a gang they will hate you. There are three cities in the game like there 
 were in GTA3. 
  
  SOUND 
  -------------- 
  The soundtrack is pure 80s fun & custom soundtracks are very good especially if you dont like 
 music from the 80s. There are several different radio stations but I always do the custom soundtrack. 
 The voice acting is top notch & guns in the game sound really good. Also the conversations the 
 characters have are still pretty funny to listen too. I really have no complaints about the sound 
 in GTA: Vice City. 
  
  LASTING APPEAL 
  --------------------------- 
  
  The GOOD 
  ------------------ 
  Another great GTA game 
  A great selection of weapons 
  Custom soundtracks 
 
  Great selection of vehicles 
  Great load times 
  Better graphics & controls 
  A+ voice acting 
  
  The BAD 
  ------------------- 
  No Swimming 
  Most of the songs from 
 80s SUCK 
  Weapon category system 
  Some of the missions are extremely hard 
  The concept of some of the missions are stupid 
  
  The FINAL VERDICT 
  GTA Vice City is simply 
 a great game the only complaint I have with the game is controlling the helicopters is really 
 bad so buy a joystick. Its close to a perfect game not as good as GTA3. 
  
  I recommend it! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: h0le
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 12, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Loved this game. I love how you can do almost anything you want. Fairly easy to beat the game. 
 Great cars, smart AI, fun mini-games/missions, I liked this better than San Andreas because I never 
 really got anywhere in it. Characters are cool. RPGish feeling. Fun rampages, can have sweet car 
 chases. Some missions are hard. Able to own lots and park cars in the garages. Can own shops/money 
 making places.. Stripclub! Boats, planes, helicopters. Cool wanted levels. (1 Cop. 2 or more cops. 
 Swat. FBI. Army)
  
  Overall, an awesome game that lets you do a lot of things and it feels like an RPG at times. Cool 
 storyline.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brainkiller05
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 12, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  When Grand Theft Auto III was released on the playstation 2 that was instantly a legendary game, 
 it was like nothing we had seen. After i got around completing it i was beginning to think of enhancements 
 that could be made to improve the next sequel, main things where more vehicles, helicopters and 
 motorbikes.
  
  So Grand Theft Auto Vice City was finally released, and i instantly knew it was a big step up, 
 it looked so smooth and played so smooth and their was nothing better than driving around on fast 
 motorbikes. 
  
  The storyline is based on all time classic movie you might have heard of, Scarface, set in the 
 year 1986, the player takes the role of "Tommy Vercetti" an Italian gangster, and it worked amazingly 
 well, with the ever so slightly Italian feel to the video, their was a suit you could wear which 
 pretty much looks straight out of Scarface, that 80's style look.
  
  The storyline, one of the best storylines any game has had, it was interesting, new, fun and you 
 can play through it time after time and not get bored. The storyline is very long containing a 
 huge amount of missions for you to complete, they range from assassinations, gang wars, biker missions, 
 Love fist missions, property missions and vehicle missions. Your goal in this game is to play through 
 the whole game and eventually taking over the Vercetti Mansion. Another way to pass the time is 
 having cop chases, shoot some pedestrians and blow up some cars and soon enough you will have a 
 giant amount of police on your trail, get a fast car and have fun.
  
  Their are quite a few extra missions to keep you playing this game, great fun to do when you've 
 completed the storyline or when you just want to have some fun, here they are;
  
  Rampages- 
  When you find a skull icon somewhere, it's time for a Rampage. Your goal is to kill 
 a specific number of gang members in a required amount of time, using a specific weapon given to 
 you. Their are 35 Rampages in total.
  
  Hidden Packages-
  There are 100 Hidden Packages in the game, they are hidden in various areas on the map. Collecting 
 them will unlock bonuses that can be added to your safe houses... so i recommend you to go searching 
 for these straight from the start.
  
  Insane and Unique stunts-
  You can earn money by completing jumps and stunts located throughout the game. Insane stunts will 
 be rewarded with money, but Unique Stunt Jumps are needed to fully complete the game, they are 
 often quite obvious looking ramps.
  
  Robbing Stores-
  Their are 5 or so stores around the city, all you need to do is get a a gun (of any type) and walk 
 into a store, and aim the gun the store keeper, and the longer you point it at him the more money 
 you get, although the long you keep it pointed at him the bigger your wanted level gets. (This 
 is needed to complete the game 100%)
  
  Buying stuff-
  When you complete a mission, rob a store, land and insane stunt, land a unique stunt or complete 
 a rampage you are rewarded with money, the only way to get rid of it is to buy stuff, their are 
 numerous safe houses plotted all over the map of Vice City, you can purchase them and it allows 
 you to save the game at that point, you can also buy clothes, their are a few clothes shops around 
 Vice City as well, all you have to do is walk into a clothes item and it changes your clothes and 
 takes a little cash.
  
  Their are also extra missions to keep you having fun, these are becoming a Taxi driver, Paramedic, 
 Fir fighter and going on a Vigilante. You can activate these mini missions buy entering a Taxi, 
 Ambulance, Fire Truck or a police car and pressing the right analog stick. You earn money buy completing 
 each level.
  
  In order to reach your goal (your goal being to complete the game 100%) you will need to do the 
 following:
  
  Complete the Main Story 
  Complete Extra Missions 
  Complete All Rampages 
  Buy All Possible Properties 
  Perform All 36 Unique Stunt Jumps 
 
  Stick Up All Stores 
  Collect All 100 Hidden Packages
  
  Sounds easy but it will take a long time and a lot of courage.
  
  So overall the game is great 
 fun to play and offers a huge amount of features so enjoy your adventure through the world of Grand 
 Theft Auto Vice City. 
  
  If you do not own this game i really recommend you to purchase it or at least rent it, it is great 
 fun and will keep you playing it for a very long time. This game is very enjoyable and i think 
 will be liked by most people who have played this game.
  
  Gameplay- 8/10
  Graphics- 7/10
  Sound- 9/10
  Value- 10/10
  
  Thanks.
  
  -Simon Watson
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 10, 2006 2:42 am PT
Review:  GTA Vice city changed a lot of things in GTA games series, having fun and same time making your 
 life through the tough lifestyle of Vice City it is just amazing. You have and "ahtourised privilegy" 
 to use any car or type of transport... and make your way through the city gang life. Your start 
 as a killer and became a killer of bosses, and by that your making money, which is respect in this 
 deadly city. 
  
  Oh yeah cars, you have got plenty choice in this city... and brilliancy in in that, depending on 
 city area.. and which gang band ruling the roost in that area and what kind of cars they like you 
 will find more cars that type rather than other cars. As long as you will focal points in different 
 areas of the city you can save game easily and park you favourite cars in its lots or garages.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hen123
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best game I ever played in my live because u can play as a mafia person and u 
 dont get in trouble for doing that only the cops in the game can arrest u lol and that other good 
 part of the game is that there is MTA (multi theft auto) and u can play online and play with others. 
 U can make a mafia with friends and family like I did and it is so fun and if u want t o V. S. me 
 my username is {MAFIA} lol i see u all there me and my MAFIA GANG!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freakick
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 27, 2006 4:17 am PT
Review:  I know I am late, way late, but I am just here to get my points.
  
  The game starts in Liberty City, where a Gang Lord, Sonny, hires his friend or nephew to buy drugs 
 from a gang. It was an organised plan, the kind u get to see in Mafia type movies. So when our 
 hero (TOMMY VERCITTY) gives them the 
  money, the other gang cheat Tommy and steal the money and dont get the drugs. On hearing this Sonny 
 gets furious and warns Tommy that if he dosent give his money back he would get killed. Tommy has 
 no other choise and tries to do just that.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goda
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 26, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  Well i have played them all and have to say this still kicks more all then the rest even the new 
 one we all know what one i'm talking about,
  This game Not only give's you the chance to kill people but drive car's truck's tank's and so on 
 but you can do what ever you want in this game it's not locked down Full open, The graf's are not 
 all that good But who care's with a game like this it's better then a nintendo LOL.
  Find all the hiden pack's and get a kick ass Chopper you want be sorry..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffizzzle
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 23, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Finally, GTA for PC. 
  
  I had always wanted it but never wanted to buy a PS2. This game absolutely rocks! It is a free 
 invironment with many interactive things and it is highly addictive! You can steal a car, drive 
 it to a gun store and buy a gun to go rob the bank, or just do whatever the crap you want! 
  
  The missions are also very fun and the story line gets you into it a lot. Although the graphics 
 arent that great, im sure they were good compared to others when it actually came out. Im still 
 playing this game a lot and i enjoy it so dont hesitate.
  
  This is totally worth it, probably not expensive, awesome, awesome game.
  
  -Jeff 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zedron33
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  When I first herd about GTA Vice City, I was so eager for it to come out. Well when it did, I got 
 my hands on it and I was quite impressed. The game has many more extras then GTA 3, the graphics 
 are a bit better, gameplay is MUCH better, better storyline, sound, music, everything! Your character 
 talks this time, you can buy property (like homes and businesses) and much, much more. I must say 
 Rockstar has done a great job is this game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are pretty good, better then GTA 3, but could be improved greatly.
  
 
  Gameplay: Excellent. I love the storyline and all the added features to the game. Bikes, new (and 
 bigger) map, voice for the main character, able to buy property.
  
  Sound: Excellent. The sound has been improved, what I mean by that is the gun shots, voice talents, 
 cars, car radios, just about everything that deals with sound has been improved.
  
  Value: Excellent. Good replay value, you can really never stop.
  
  Overall GTA Vice City is 
 a great game, one of the best PS2 games I have ever played and I highly suggest you play this if 
 you haven't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gualmilward
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 18, 2006 6:41 pm PT
Review:  GTA Vice City is a classic game for PC, the 80's Styles, Radios, Clothes and Car.
  When You Play you Feel the 80's because the game is Wonderful, the Beachs.
  
  You Play in Vice 
 City (looks Like Miami) 
  
  Graphs: Good (the game was created in 2003) good effects but some Bugs
  Sound: AMAZING!!!! RULES!!!!! 
 100/100
  Control: Easy Control Like GTA III
  Gameplay: You can make everything you want!!!
  
  You can make Taxi, Cop, Firefighter Mission
 
  You can make Stunts
  You can go to the Beach
  You can do anything
  
  A Classic for the PC Games! One of The Most Played Game in The World!
  
  If You Don't have, 
 Don't lose your time, BUY it!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: katilmis
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 18, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  OK, lets get this out of the way first. GTA: VC fully merits its Mature rating, which means it 
 shouldnt be played by kids sixteen or under. Having said that, theres nothing here which you 
 wouldnt see in a gangster movie: except that many movies look far less professional than this 
 highly-polished work of art from Rockstar Games.
  
  Its 1986, and youre Tommy Vercetti, a mobster sent down to Vice City, Florida (a thinly-disguised 
 Miami) to supervise some deals. Everything goes wrong, and you have to start afresh.
  
  Initially this involves stealing vehicles and running errands for various criminal factions. As 
 you gain money and influence, you move into buying businesses and making them profitable by fair 
 means and foul. Well, no, always foul. Eventually there are scores to be settled with your old 
 outfit.
  
  The missions are very varied, and laced with an offbeat sense of humor. As the game proceeds, youll 
 have to master driving cars and motorcycles, shooting, and flying helicopters, seaplanes and even 
 lethal remote-control model vehicles.
  
  Due to the number of sub-plots and factions, youll normally be able to choose between several 
 different jobs at any given time. In fact, GTA: VC plays like three or four games in one, and all 
 of them are great.
  
  When not working for others, or trying to get a business up and running, youre entirely free to 
 wander Vice City at will. Cruise along, listening to the radio. Rob stores and pedestrians, if 
 thats what you want; and if you think you can, evade the police! Run taxi, ambulance, fire-truck 
 or vigilante missions.
  Search for the bonus parcels hidden all over the map. Attempt insane vehicular acrobatics. The 
 city lies at your feet, with a helpful radar of your immediate vicinity and a separate map screen 
 for planning longer trips.
  
  Even listening to the radio is surprisingly good fun. There are nine stations (two of them talk 
 shows) which can be heard whenever youre in a vehicle, and each has about an hour of material! 
 For the music stations, these are (nearly) all authentic eighties hits, which is a great touch. 
 The talk shows raise many smiles first time through, but obviously dont live up to constant repetition.
 
  
  Similarly, the voice acting is superb throughout. Rockstar Games has raised the bar, by hiring 
 an entirely professional cast who never break the illusion for a moment. Youll probably need the 
 subtitles for the Scottish rockers Love Fist: note that their dialogue has been Americanized for 
 the written text!
  
  The graphics are gorgeously smooth, and resolution and draw distance can be adjusted to suit your 
 system. Everything is crystal clear, with some spectacular lighting effects. Each district of the 
 city has a distinctive look and feel, reflected not only in the static buildings but also the type 
 of citizens and vehicles found there.
  
  Most of the game is played from a third-person view. When driving (or flying or sailing) , different 
 camera views can be toggled, and some weapons allow a switch to first-person for added accuracy 
 in aiming. It can be very difficult to control helicopters and boats at first, but practice makes 
 perfect.
  
  For such a complex game, there are remarkably few bugs. Sometimes a key would stick, leaving 
 me moving in circles: but selecting Pause and then Resume would clear the problem. Once every few 
 hours, the sound stuttered for a few seconds. And that was all that I found.
  
  So, whats not to like? Theres a bottleneck at the assignment Death Row  before that, everything 
 is fairly straightforward. In that mission and afterwards, things get very difficult. But if youve 
 played that far, youll likely want to push ahead and keep on trying until you succeed.
  
  That could be many, many attempts. Vice City only allows you to save at certain locations  although 
 as you expand your empire you get more save points  and it can be tedious to get to the start 
 point and listen to mission briefings over and over. (Some briefings can be skipped, some cant.)
 
  
  But thats quibbling. If the game didnt get more difficult, thered be no challenge for the serious 
 gamers; and if it didnt start off gently, casual gamers would fall by the wayside. As it is, theres 
 something for everyone who enjoys action gaming (everyone seventeen and older, that is) . Even if 
 you dont think it would appeal to you at all, I urge you: try it. Youll be surprised. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reedler1234
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 15, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Vice city is the sequel to GTAIII and straight away when you start the game you can see this is 
 completely different. the place is so colourful and full of happy people and nice weather and beaches 
 and bikes! makes you wanna run wild and you can more than ever.
  
  This game's story is very good, a drug deal gone wrong, the missions start out insanely easy but 
 then turn really hard real quick and have different steps to finishing one mission which is great 
 fun and rewarding once youve done it. Also the way you can run around has been changed and its 
 just overall better with the weapons and the way you can kill people and the different ways they 
 die and outrunning the police.
  
  the music is great, but theres no rap music which is a shame, but the voice acting is the best 
 around and the car noises and the guns and all of it makes it a good sounding game.
  
  It doesnt look to good right now, the graphics look dated but the cars and the overall city looks 
 very bright and there are many many different looking character models on the street, which is 
 great and the different outfits you can find look real cool and stuff, this game does look nice, 
 theres no lag on my computer either so its good, it doesnt matter that this game doesnt look all 
 that hot because it plays amazingly! and its not that the graphics are poor, theyre great, just 
 not perfect.
  
  of course in this game you can run around killing people for fun and its great in this game because 
 killing the police is so easy and so much fun but you wont get passed 4 star wantedness but this 
 game is great to run wild in, especially with a machete or a kitchen knife, its great!
  
  You must play this game without hesitating, try get it however you can because its 18, you might 
 have a bit of a hard time, get an adult to do it. you need this game, beleive me. possible the 
 best GTA around.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Levoth
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 15, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  Are you bored? So you really need to play this game... GTA Vice City is the most enjoyable game 
 I've ever played im my life. It's really interesting, because you can do everything as you want, 
 and there are no people to stop you. 
  
  Graphics :
  The game have very good graphics. And they're very simple and light, any 3D Video card can be used 
 with it without any problems. I think that's the most interesting, because the game's graphics 
 are very colorfull and well designed. The animations are all very good too and every special effect 
 is great.
  
  Gameplay :
  The gameplay is just super-easy. The camera rotates the way you want making more easy to look at 
 targets. And.... that's it, the gameplay is very very simple.
  
  Sounds:
  The sounds are the best part in this kind of game. All the sound effects are very realistic and 
 the GTA's Radio is very good too. There are many good songs, old ones I must say. Michael Jackson, 
 Black Sabbath and other famous bands.
  
  I think that GTA Vice City is one of the best games ever made by Rockstar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asadNAWABI
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 9, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  You play with Tommy Verceti in the game. Our ultimate goal in the game is to become the greatest 
 gangster of city named vice city. Some of the game characters include diaz (my favourite) , lance 
 vance dance , Mercedes a young girl and some more .
  Main attraction for the game is its gameplay. Free roaming city , get in to any car u wish , get 
 in to weapon shops , buy properties , get missions and get them done to earn respect and trust 
 of city`s famous gangsters . Then gain money and buy ur own properties e-g getting a showroom and 
 some new missions will appear as getting a list of new cars done. At the end of game we achieve 
 our goal by killing sonny and become the ultimate gangster. The weaponary include a lot of weapons 
 as simple pistols , swords and daggers to big ass bazookas and rocket launchers. Graphics are not 
 bad too. Rock star makes the perfect graphics for such a diverse city and a diverse game. Sound's 
 are cool. Weapons sound also done very well. Cars sounds helicopters sounds every thing is absolutely 
 right.
  So i say its a must play game for every one .I m sure that u gonna enjoy the experience . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 8, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  Definitely an improvement over GTA 3, but still causes many frustrations. 
  
  The player in the game actually has a name and talks, the voices are made with more familar actors. 
 
  
  There are new weapons, but they aren't really that big of a deal. The MP5 is available to replace 
 the submachine gun slot, the flamethrower is quite useless when guys are shooting you to death 
 from far away, the minigun and M60 are welcomed but don't expect a rise in the game's value due 
 to new weapons.
  
  Having your own gang in VC is nice, and seeing them walking around on your properties is cool. 
 However, unless they are shooting at trespassers, they don't do anything for you. It would have 
 been great if you can fill a car full of them and have them fight for you, but unfortunately that's 
 not the case here. It would also be cool if there was a limited number of police and military guys, 
 that way if you're good enough to waste them all, you never have to worry about getting stars - 
 you'll be able to do whatever you want.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  PROS:
  
  The ability to save at multiple areas around the city, instead of GTA 3 where you were forced to 
 travel distances to reach places, meaning wasted time and a higher chance of the car getting damaged. 
 You can store cars at multiple garages. 
  
  You can ride 3 types of motorcycles. Personally I travelled by motorbike more than anything else, 
 because the streets of VC are mostly narrow. I can weave in and out of traffic with a motorcycle, 
 reach high speeds, and get a better rush in driving than if I did in a car. The downsides are that 
 you can't pick anyone up with a bike (aka prostitutes, but I did successfully with Mercedes in 
 the beginning of the game) and you can't get multiple people on it.
  
  I dislike the rainy weather of Liberty City, it slowed the game down. In VC it's mostly sunny and 
 the game performed better. 
  
  You can also fly helicopters and small, slow planes like that on the **** Dodo mission. They get 
 some time to get used to however. You still can't swim!
  
  You can change clothes to your liking, and some missions require it. You can go into certain buildings 
 and find things. You're able to purchase properties such as Pole Position and watch some girl dance.
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  CONS:
  
  Even though VC improves from GTA 3 in that it lets you save at more points in the game, you still 
 can't save during a mission. As we all know, this is very frustrating. Sure, it does promote a 
 more hardcore version of gaming, but I dare anyone to tell me that they like playing a simple mission 
 that takes only 10 minutes but instead takes over an hour just to complete, and don't forget all 
 the cutscenes that you have to watch and hear over and over again! Gaming is supposed to be fun 
 and relieve stress, not add on to them. Even successful games like the GTA series, the Tom Clancy 
 games, etc lose on the fun factor in my mind. Personally, I never played Ghost Recon or Raven Shield 
 or GTA 3 or any other games without the within mission save option twice. Here's an example. The 
 10 minute mission taking over a hour to complete was the one where you have to rob a bank in VC. 
 Some seem to think that this is the best and most fun mission in the game, but I can hardly agree. 
 In fact, it has to be the most annoying mission in the game, one that made me consider taking out 
 the CD and breaking it in pieces. I'll go through the whole deal of going to the Malibu, talking 
 to my guys, drive them to the destination, go change clothes, go into the bank, go upstairs to 
 kill and reach the safe, go downstairs to get the manager, go back upstairs to have him crack it, 
 go back down to fight off the SWAT team, go out and kill off another SWAT team with cops and vehicles 
 (the military was there to fight too at one point) , make sure Phil follows me and stays alive, 
 drive to the Pay & Spray. Just about every coma there was in the previous sentence has a cutscene 
 which you are forced to watch, what a waste of time. You put in all the effort but in the end Phil 
 runs into traffic and dies, forcing you to start over. Worst part is, you'll be lucky if you get 
 it right, otherwise expect to play it over and over again until you do. Luck has a lot to do with 
 the game. I was so angered at the point, I felt like shooting Rockstar for making things so tedious.
 
  
  The game could've had a better manual. Instead of the bs that it's stuffed with, it should've put 
 more valuable info in there. For example, I completed all the missions necessary for me to advance 
 to the final missions, but somehow I wasn't able to do so. I was very puzzeled and getting really 
 frustrated (frustration is a trademark of these games) . I spent a long time wondering what the 
 heck I was supposed to do and running around VC like a headless chicken (expect to do that a lot 
 too) . I got a police bribe by accident and just like that, I got a call on the mobile and was able 
 to continue the game. It's small things like that which hinder the game, and the game guides that 
 I read never mentioned this fact.
  
  There are graphics errors. When I'm walking around, the environment transitions smoothly, but when 
 I'm driving fast, the road in front of me doesn't render properly and I actually see cars sink 
 into the ground, getting stuck. This happened when I was racing Hilary. I finished but was told 
 that I had to do it over again due to Hilary "dying".
  
  Other minor things worth mentioning could be that the AI isn't too good, Lance would get in the 
 crossfire and motorists would abruptly make a sharp turn, crashing into your high speed driving.
 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Conclusion:
  
  Another good game in the GTA series, at first it felt like an expansion pack but actually took 
 me nearly half a week to finish (GTA 3 took a whole week) . I didn't like the flowerly look and 
 feel of the game, especially Tom's outfits. I prefer if it wasn't so comical looking. What keeps 
 this game from truly being great is the lack of in game saves, as mentioned in the CONS section. 
 I can get San Andreas, but most likely I won't because of my frustration with the game's major 
 flaw. I will if they fix that feature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Firozecool
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 8, 2006 5:56 am PT
Review:  For years I have been waiting for a such a game to come. For years I have been waiting for such 
 a game in which you can freely roam in the whole city and do whatever I wish. May that be finishing 
 anyone in the way, going to the Pizza outlet, taking part in the dirt bike contest, flying a helicopter 
 (or a radio controlled one) or simply doing anything.
  
  As you can see from the above things there are infinite things you can do in this game. When I 
 first played this game at a friend's I simply loved it and the next thing you know I bought this 
 game in my PC collection. 
  
  In the game there are plenty of main missions you'll have to complete, which are totally fantastic, 
 leaving out the supplementary ones like doing a Taxi mission or doing a Fire Truck mission.
  
  The gameplay is perfect. There's not a single dull moment. As for thew graphics the graphics 
 are not all that good but its all for the good because if the graphics were perfectly technical 
 troubles could have arose. In the field of sound the game simply excels. Whether it is the most 
 realistic sound of the surroundings or the superb (sometimes hilarious) 
  soundtrack, the sound is fantastic. 
  
  Gamespot folks are right, if by any chance you are 
 holding back from playing this game you should wait no longer.
  
  Go 
  Out
  There 
  And 
  Play
  This 
  Game 
  And 
  Tell
  me
  If
  I
  Was
  Wrong!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 7, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  Rockstar North had a difficult task on their hands when making Grand Theft Auto: Vice City. That 
 task was to try and make a better game than the marvellous GTA 3. They succeeded.
  
  Vice City is set in the 1980's, in what is effectively a city in Florida. Visually the game is 
 very similar to GTA 3, just with that little bit more detail and sharpness. While it is not a groundbreaking 
 game graphically, it is still superior to many of its contemporaries. The only real criticism that 
 can be levelled at it is that during the in-game cut sequences the characters all appear to be 
 rather blocky and lacking in detail. This is a minor complaint though. Generally the environments 
 are all colourful and believable. The developers have made the adventure truly look as if it was 
 set in the 80's.
  
  This is further enhanced by the soundtrack, which features classic 80's tunes from the likes of 
 Gary Numan, Spandau Ballet and ELO, to name but a few. With several radio stations each playing 
 a different style of music, the majority of which are genuine tracks from the era, there is a wide 
 range to choose from and you will soon find your favourite. The DJ's are hilarious, as is to be 
 expected from a GTA game, my personal favourite being Fernando "Have a powerful day" Martinez from 
 the Emotion station. Simply listening to the radio stations is worthy entertainment in itself.
 
  
  The story line is engaging, and borrows from well-known Gangster movies. The quests are varied 
 and almost everyone will be able to find a few missions that they really enjoy. Missions involve 
 racing, taking out individual enemies, stealth, or simply causing as much mayhem and carnage as 
 possible. As well as the main story mission that involve assignments from some of Vice City's less 
 desirable occupants, there are also many company related missions. As you progress through the 
 game you will get the opportunity to buy up several businesses, all of which come with their own 
 missions. These are generally very comical, with the Taxi firm and adult film studio missions being 
 of particular note.
  
  As with GTA 3 it is also possible to complete emergency service and taxi missions, with Vice City 
 adding pizza delivery to the list of good deeds that you can do. There are also hidden packages, 
 unique jumps, plus a variety of RC races and time trials to complete. Of particular interest are 
 the missions involving the Hymen Memorial Stadium (surely one of the games more near-the-knuckle 
 jokes) , which include a destruction derby and a NASCAR type race. All these sub-missions mean that 
 Vice City has a lot to offer aside from the basic story. Indeed the story makes up only about 50% 
 of what is needed to fully complete Vice City.
  
  The vehicle handling dynamics are excellent, with the possibility of getting punctures now added. 
 Punctures make the cars handle appallingly, and it is a nice touch that police will now try to 
 take out your getaway cars tyres to halt your escape. The AI is generally good, however the Law 
 has a tendency to blindly chase rather than use tactics to try and capture you.
  
  It is pleasing that the character you play has been given a name and personality in Vice City. 
 One of the problems of GTA 3 was that your character had no personality or background, meaning 
 that you couldn't really relate to him. Also, his relationships with other characters never developed. 
 Thankfully these issues have been resolved, and the character of Tommy Vercetti is likable and 
 will make several friends and enemies the longer that he spends in Vice City.
  
  I haven't experienced many bugs with this game. There have been occasional crashes, and the "Ice 
 Cream" mission only works when it decides that it wants to, though generally the game is very stable. 
 Also loading times aren't overly long for a game featuring such detail.
  
  Due to the added realism provided by sound, entertaining missions, freedom to move almost anywhere 
 (you can enter many buildings - another advantage of Vice City over GTA 3) , and highly comical 
 (albeit violent) storyline Vice City will keep you entertained for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 5, 2006 4:22 am PT
Review:  In Grand Theft Auto: Vice City, you are a man who has been robbed of money which was going to be 
 spent on drugs. Mainly, you do different missions for different people, while doing whatever you 
 please, where it could be running over pedestrians, killing police officers, or just driving around. 
 
  
  Presentation 
  
  Grand Theft Auto: Vice City for the PC presents itself very well. Because of the hard drive, Vice 
 City doesn't have extremely long load times which plagued the PlayStation 2 version. The game loads 
 extremely fast. 
  
  Graphics 
  
  If you have a good graphic card, you will notice the difference between the PlayStation 2 and PC 
 versions. The PC version has better models, better textures, and better frame-rates. 
  
  Sound 
  
  Grand Theft Auto: Vice City has the best music collection in any game up to date 
 in my opinion. A slew of radio stations with hand picked songs from 1986. If you don't like '80s 
 music, you're in luck. If you go to C:/Program Files/Rockstar Games/Grand Theft Auto Vice City/mp3, 
 you can put all your favorite songs in the game. You can just put shortcuts to your favorite mp3's, 
 and Vice City will play them in a station called MP3 Player. Note: Only MP3's will work, any other 
 format won't. 
  
  The game has an excellent selection of music, great sound effects. The pedestrians have dirty mouths, 
 and comedic comments. 
  
  Gameplay 
  
  Vice City is not linear, which is excellent. You are free to do whatever you want. You have to 
 follow a linear mission list to progress, however. The controls are easy enough to learn in less 
 than 10 minutes. In Vice City, you are free to drive around in a slew of cars, motorcycles, buses, 
 and scooters. 
  
  Lasting Appeal 
  
  Once you complete all the misisons in Vice City, you can keep playing the game. You are free to 
 do whatever you please. You can play the game for hours just driving around in your car listening 
 to Flock of Seagulls. 
  
  Ending Comments 
  
  Wherever you play it, Grand Theft Auto : Vice City is an excellent game, whether it's on PlayStation 
 2, Xbox, or PC. You will get the richness of Vice City on any console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eternal_dragon0
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 28, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 9.9/10
  All the graphics in this game looks realistic and smooth, such as the characters, the buildings, 
 and the vehicles. The only thing I have against it is the colour range of the cars. It seems to 
 me that the cars all come in one colour at any given time. So at, let's say, 6:00 PM, all the cars 
 are coloured silver. This makes the driving just a tad boring.
  Sound: 10/10
  cool sound effects, and even some basic dialogue could be heard, such as, "Watch where you're goin!"
 
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Well, you're a gangster left out on the streets of good ole Vice City. What could get you bored? 
 It's a thrilling ride throughout the game, whether you choose to follow your orders, or to go freelance 
 and just purely have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2006 2:02 am PT
Review:  Cruising around Miami in a silk suit and boat shoes - this can't be beaten. Vice City is more or 
 less GTA3 with a new setting. Some exciting adventures, such as flying shotgun (or M60 in this 
 case) in a chopper buzzing Haitian gangsters, help make Vice City stand out. It's also neat to 
 be able to change clothes and 'purchase' various buildings in the city. If you're not offended 
 by the crude content, which is no worse than the average mob film, Vice City offers an fantastic 
 open-ended bad guy experience. Sometimes I wish the cops were a little smarter, but being able 
 to rampage a bit is what makes this a great escape. Speed control is the only outstanding issue 
 for Vice City on the PC. When driving your choice of velocity is either pedal-to-the-metal or full 
 stop. If you want to stay on the roads you'll have to either learn to make sharp, accurate turns 
 (which looks quite sweet) or get used to tapping the accelerator and then cruising. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: VisualSamurai
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 24, 2006 3:02 pm PT
Review:  GTA Vice City is the greatest thing since GTA III (before San Andreas was released) . Everything 
 was a bit more realistic than GTA III - You could walk around the punch holes in car tyres, smash 
 windows and even ride a motorbike which GTA III did not have! 
  
  The story is based on the late 80s - 10 years after GTA III. There is something special about the 
 80s in the game - the cars, clothes, music etc. It was when "Video killed the radio star" was once 
 revealed and on FLASH FM!
  
  The storyline itself was exciting as it had a very unpredictable cheesy twist near the end where 
 Lance back-stabbed Tommy Vercetti - about half way through the game you would have not predicted 
 the ending which is good in a way since predictable games don't have as much excitement such as 
 the Dragonball Z games (which is entirely based on the cartoon series) . 
  
  Side missions were also fun and challenging. My favourite ones are the firetruck missions where 
 you can earn truckloads of cash, the RC missions and of course assassination contract missions. 
 It's a shame that there were only 5 assassination contract missions available in the game as I 
 was hoping for at least 10 to keep myself busy. 
  
  The radio stations on GTA Vice City were much better than in GTA III because their music had more 
 variety and as being a fan of rock music myself, I can say that the music played on there is nothing 
 but quality! Sometimes it's really funny listening to KCHAT as people on there talk about random 
 stuff a lot which is why KCHAT overrules VCPR.
  
  I was a bit disappointed by the enforcers (Police, FBI, SWAT and ARMY) as they have not really 
 developed from GTA III even though the SWAT is new and they jump off the police helicopter. What 
 I'm saying is that when you hide behind a wall they just shoot at the wall instead of going around 
 it. The weapons used by ARMY is very disappointing as they use mp5s like the FBI - they were using 
 colt in GTA III. But of course, if they're too hard to deal with.. would you still be here reading 
 this? :) You would be still playing..
  
  I have played this game for 2 years and I am still enjoying and playing it. This shows that this 
 game is still playable and enjoyable even though you have completed all the missions etc. "Stop!! 
 This is a chase!"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eolfson
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 24, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto Vice City is just simply amazing. The story is good and the missions are fun, 
 but if that gets boring it is easily just as fun to run around and shoot things. The best thing 
 about this game is that you can do whatever you want, whenever you want. The only thing that could 
 be better is the changing of your weapons, which is not actually a problem at all. If you haven't 
 played GTA Vice City you are really missing out, this game is revolutionary. Even if you have played 
 it, but don't own it, go out and buy it. If you're looking for some fun, and doing whatever the 
 **** you want, this game is for you, enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nauman_97
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 30, 2006 12:10 pm PT
Review:  This is the game which got me back in to the gaming world .This is a game worthy of loving and 
 get all the praise from me. I love this game from the core of my heart.
  The game starts with sonny having table talk with others about Tommy Verceti. He is the one we 
 play in the game. Our ultimate goal in the game is to become the greatest gangster of city named 
 vice city. Tommy along with his friend ken Rosenberg goes to the airport to give sonny`s money 
 to some one. unfortunately they get ambushed and lose sonny`s money . however tommy and Rosenberg 
 manage to escape . this is how the game story starts and the rest of the game goes on . 
  Some of the game characters include diaz (my favourite) , lance vance dance , Mercedes a young 
 girl and some more .
  
  GAMEPLAY: the ultimate experience any game can achieve . free roaming city , get in to any car 
 u wish , get in to weapon shops , buy properties , get missions and get them done to earn respect 
 and trust of city`s famous gangsters . then gain money and buy ur own properties e-g getting a 
 showroom and some new missions will appear as getting a list of new cars done. At the end of game 
 we achieve our goal by killing sonny and become the ultimate gangster. The weaponary include a 
 lot of weapons as simple pistols , swords and daggers to big bazookas and rocket launchers
  
  GRAPHICS: as I m writing this review in 2006 the graphics look preety bad according to the 
 nowadays standard but if we consider them back in 2002 they were wicked second to none . rock star 
 makes the perfect graphics for such a diverse city and a diverse game.
  
  SOUND: cool sound every thing perfect .weapons sound also done very well. Cars sounds helicopters 
 sounds every thing is absolutely right.
  ENDING COMMENT: a must play game for every one . its sure that u gonna enjoy the experience . u 
 gonna love tommy verceti.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Max_Power_17
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 18, 2006 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Well it was pretty good... the gameplay and all that. You can do pretty much what u want and even 
 tho its the first one i hav playd in teh series it was pretty good
  
  Can i start by sayin that the soudtrack was so awsome i loved all those old skool songs. I loved 
 the cars... there were some oldies in the game that i just digged. It was kool how u can just walk 
 around and shoot ppl, rope shops and if ur good just get away wif it and then by houses and that.
 
  
  Um...... not much to say about it! LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefycake
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 17, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  80'S is an era.. of great techno keyboard music.. shows with Transforming vehicles.. and with 2 guy 
 fighting crime in good old Miami..
  but now you can experience the 80's with the magic of gaming.. and i dont mean by playin NES or 
 ATARi...
  I mean in the SYTLE of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City!!
  
  To make the story short.. youyplay as Tommy Vercetti.. and criminal who just came outta prison for 
 15 year.. only to realize hes visit to the Miami like City called" VICE CITY" turn out to be a disaster.. With 
 the drug deal gone wrong.. and your boss want your head,... what should ya do... take back what ya 
 lost... GTA STYLE!!!
  The game offers more mission.. great new cast of character.. includin voice of Ray Liotta voice of 
 Tommy.. and Tom Sizemore as Sonny Foriellie.. there much more weapons.. from wielding a katana sword 
 to shooting from a minigun... better vehicles.. and yes.. YES!!! you can FLY A HELICOPTER IN AIR WITHOUT 
 ANY PROBLEMS!!
  and you get a great selection of incredible 80's Tracks
  
  so turn up the radio, put down your cocktail, and suit up with ya best coloured suit.. cause youll 
 love GTA: VICE CITY!!
  
  I give this game a 9/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azn_shorty75
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 17, 2006 4:15 am PT
Review:  this game is reallllllllly good, my friend andrew borrowed me it and i found that i could not stop 
 playing for the first few days (until my computer broke down so i restarted it)
  
  the storyline is awesome, with many missions to do, its like u are actualy alive in the city, jack 
 car, kill police, rob stores, ride boats and even helicopters! this is really the ideal game for 
 a lover of first person shooting games.
  
  playing this game has a very wide map, later on as u finish more and more missions, u unlock more 
 maps and its as if u are actually in vice city! some missions are way tooo hard though, they maya 
 give u a hard time and have u banging the computer. overall this is really an awesome game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: graydust1234
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 15, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  If you are tired of all the stupid people out on the road an you wish you could just drive an have 
 fun at it this game is the one It shows you your real driving skills can you cut threw traffic, 
 fly threw an intersection get pissed off at the cops an do somthing about it this game is the one 
 It releases all that built up energy an anger. It would be nice to really feel free like this game 
 makes you feel it just needs to be alot bigger so when you drive you are not done with the whole 
 map in 5 min but otherwise this game is the sweetest game out even better then the new one the 
 hispanic guy in the new one doesnt go with the other games at all an the music sucks on the new 
 one the music on vice city is so much better cause its based on the time of the 80's an 90's that 
 has nothing to do with rap bullsh@&*^t we neeed rock n roll with clearer picture like vice city 
 it makes the game so much better the dark hue of gta 5 is hard on the eyes an makes it confusing 
 to the brain cause it makes you strain to see even if you turn up the brightness I just wish that 
 vice city had a nude patch lol give vice city a 9.9 cause the maps are small 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 700652948163
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to Vice City. Welcome to the 1980s. Having just made it back onto the streets of Liberty 
 City after a long stretch in maximum security, Tommy Vercetti is sent to Vice City by his old boss, 
 Sonny Forelli. 
  
  They were understandably nervous about his re-appearance in Liberty City, so a trip down south 
 seemed like a good idea. But all does not go smoothly upon his arrival in the glamorous, hedonistic 
 metropolis of Vice City. He's set up and is left with no money and no merchandise. Sonny wants 
 his money back, but the biker gangs, Cuban gangsters, and corrupt politicians stand in his way. 
 Most of Vice City seems to want Tommy dead. His only answer is to fight back and take over the 
 city himself. 
  
  From the decade of big hair, excess and pastel suits comes a story of one man's rise to the top 
 of the criminal pile as Grand Theft Auto returns to the PC. 
  
  Vice City is a huge urban sprawl ranging from the beach to the swamps and the glitz to the ghetto, 
 and is the most varied, complete and alive digital city ever created. Combining non-linear gameplay 
 with a character driven narrative, you arrive in a town brimming with delights and degradation 
 and are given the opportunity to take it over as you choose. 
  
  As a major gateway to South America and the Caribbean and attracting migrants, Vice City is brimming 
 with diverse characters, so there's a friend for everyone. It is a sociable place and the new guy 
 in town is sure to meet all manner of friendly people in the sunshine capital of America. Athletes, 
 pop stars, real estate developers, politicians, trailer trash, everyone is moving to Vice City 
 to find out what makes it the number one growth city in America. But, as Tommy quickly finds out, 
 trust is still the rarest of commodities. 
  
  Vice City offers vehicular pleasures to suit every taste. For the speed enthusiast, there's high-performance 
 cars and motorbikes. For the sportsman, a powerboat or a golf buggy lets you enjoy the great outdoors. 
 For those that need that sense of freedom and escape, why not charter a helicopter and see the 
 beauty of Vice City from the air? 
  
  As the party capital of America, you would expect your ears to be seduced by a host of sultry melodies 
 and pumping beats, but the city is truly rocking. You'll be AMAZED as you sweep through Vice City's 
 FM dial. If you are feeling like trouble, you can tune into some driving rock, or some crucial 
 electro, or maybe you want to slow down with some sweet soul, and there will always be some great 
 romantic anthems if you want to really take your mind off things. 
  
  For the action man, or outdoors type, there's tons of fun things to do and adventures to be had 
 guaranteed. For the secretive or creepy type, Vice City is full of surprises, a place where you'll 
 constantly be surprised by the vivacious, fun-loving types who live there and the things you can 
 discover. 
  
  Grand Theft Auto: Vice City is the most diverse and ambitious piece of interactive entertainment 
 yet created. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: g8summit
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 6, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of the GTA series and its probably my favortie games other than BF2. So 
 when i heard from a friend that EB Games was putting all of the VC in a bargan bin i picked a copy 
 up for the PC straight away. I already have the same game on PS2 (had i sold it) but i know that 
 the PC version has a whole assortment of mods so i knew it was worth it.
  
  When i played the game that became ever more apparent. The mod list goes on and on. From changing 
 most of the game to adding your favorite car you can download anything and everything. 
  
  For my review i am marking just the game and yes im reviewing a fresh copy.
  
  Graphics: i 
 couldnt really take in the full effect of the graphics my computer GFX suck. I still have a Geforce 
 5200. (anybody want to send me a X800???)
  
  Sound: exact same as the PS2 version except for some added commentary. At least i think its added 
 anyways the voice acting is great. The radio stations are the best out of all of the GTA games. 
 The songs range from Lional Richie to Micheal Jackson.
  
  Controls: the controls are great if you prefer the manual aim like in first person shooters because 
 the game allows you to aim manually with any gun. the controls are generally quite good but i found 
 them not as tight as the PS2 because of the lack of the analog stick.
  
  Gameplay: fun fun fun there is absoulutly know way any sane person can think that this game is 
 not fun. Shooting hijacking and doing everything illegal. For god sakes how can you not have fun 
 with that formula. There are plenty of missions and when your done the missions there are still 
 properties to buy with added missions and your conventional host of Taxi Police Ambualne and Delibery 
 missions. I did like the payphone missions in the game though they get you to asasonate someone 
 and were different from the regular gameplay.
  
  Glitches ETC: there are many glitches like car dissapering right in from of you. Someone not dieing 
 just general glithes but theres nothing serious enough to take aways from any of the gameplay.
 
  
  If you are looking for a great game and a low price. This game will definetly satisfy your hunger. 
 Grand Theft Auto Vice City will remain a true classic forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CTOCTOCTO
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 31, 2005 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Like Grand Theft Auto III, one of the joys of Grand Theft Auto: Vice City is that there's rarely 
 one "right" way to complete any of its action-packed missions. Need to assassinate a mob boss? 
 You can shoot him, run him over, or set up some elaborate scheme to blow him up. PlayStation 2 
 owners got to enjoy the world of Vice City when it was first released in late 2002, and we're happy 
 to report that the PC version of Vice City is every bit as good as its PS2 cousin. In fact, with 
 support for higher-resolution graphics, the addition of mouse/keyboard support, and even a customizable 
 MP3 radio station, you can argue that it's actually better. 
  
  Of course, no review of a Grand Theft Auto game these days would be complete without a disclaimer 
 regarding its mature content, which has sparked all sorts of controversy since GTA III was released. 
 Vice City is in every way the equivalent of an R-rated movie, with profanity, violence, and any 
 number of other things that make Jerry Falwell turn in his pajamas. It's definitely not a game 
 for 10-year olds. However, it is a game for adults: It's smart, it's funny, and it's just damned 
 FUN. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdcazares1980
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 30, 2005 12:36 pm PT
Review:  I recently reviewed the GTA Trilogy for the Xbox so I'm going to expand some of it to the PC. I 
 will speak from the angle that I did play it for the Xbox so read that before reading this. Like 
 it's console counterparts, GTA: VC is still a great game. It is virtually identical to both the 
 Xbox and PS2 consoles. 
  
  The biggest difference is the controls. According to the game package, it is recommended that you 
 get a game controller to have a better experience. I have to disagree somewhat for several reasons. 
 1) The current controller I have has the right analog stick configuration completely backwards 
 (i. e. up/down is left/right, and vice-versa) ; this can lead to frustration especially when you 
 have to do the helicopter missions; so I had no choice but to abandon the controller and get used 
 to the keyboard controls for that one. This leads to 2) which is you can't change the analog controllers 
 like you do in some games. 3) The Standard Configuration (keyboard) is much better than the Classic 
 Configuration (joystick) because you can actually aim with your weapon all around, whereas with 
 the joystick, you can't do that; I can actually aim the minigun all over the place instead of just 
 180 degrees. 
  
  You can also put your MP3 music into the computer so you can play it in your vehicle, but unlike 
 the Xbox, you can't select your favorite music to be played first. You would have to wait until 
 one particular song you like to play is over. One would think that the PC has learned from the 
 Xbox version, but not completely. 
  
  Overall, if you don't have an Xbox or PS2 and have and up-to-date computer, then get this game. 
 Just don't rely on the joystick to necessarily give you a better gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pogicraft
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 27, 2005 11:03 pm PT
Review:  You run around into pink circles to get reasons to kill people, what more can you ask for? It's 
 even fun to run amuck and cause general disaster in town. The only reason I gave it a bad score 
 for sound was because every time I played it would bring my speakers to 4.1 and even switch out 
 my control panel, which gets annoying to adjust after each time I play. (I have 5.1 btw)
  
  It deserves to be a classic, I especially like how you're not the same guy you are in I, 2, and 
 3. The graphics are still bad though, compared to games of today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renegade300
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 26, 2005 9:46 am PT
Review:  The premise is simple. Think Miami Vice. You're in Vice City, lots of cocaine dealers, the Italians 
 want to get involved. You've just gotten out of prison and are sent down to get the 'family' presence 
 known. 
  
  Your first job goes wrong and everyone is killed. Now you have to get the cash and drugs back for 
 the family. As your reputation grows, more and more people want you to work for them.
  
  The game is just classic. From the low-resolution intro screen to the GREAT music from Judas Priest 
 to Michael Jackson to Bryan Adams, this is a BLAST for anyone over 25 who remembers these years. 
 Younger players will enjoy it too but might miss all the great references! 
  
  The improvements over GTA3 are numerous. You get motorcycles now, complete with appropriate body 
 leanings. Mopeds too! There are seaplanes, boats and helicopters. You'll see some of your favorite 
 cars from GTA3 (including the BF Injection) plus many new ones. In addition to a gun shop you also 
 have a tool shop for those who dislike firearms. 
  
  The dialogue is just *classic*, although they went a BIT heavy with every other swear being a reference 
 to the male sex organ. In the REAL Miami Vice, they had a bit more imagination! Still, that is 
 probably my only complaint in a game that is incredibly rich. The graphics are improved. The radio 
 stations are AMAZING. Yes, this is NOT for kids. But for any adult, this is an amazingly fun way 
 to spend many, many hours!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Majordeoxys
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2005 11:10 pm PT
Review:  You see this game is very bad for people but it is good to play . In this game you must be gangster 
 and kill very much people . Well if you play this game you must be abnormal because there a lot 
 of killing and even sex scenes thats bad but you must play it . Because if don't play this game 
 you don't know what is reality  this game is real and now it is doing the bad reputation. And if 
 you don't play this game you don't know whats real .
  Nothing bad just words. And there is to much of bad . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shre123
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 19, 2005 8:01 am PT
Review:  This Game is created to enhance visual reality of stealing, thugging and just rampaging through 
 the streets of Vice City. This awesome reality on your desktop, laptop or whatever the hell you 
 have, keeps you on tenterhooks all the time. The storyline may have some boring moments, but whatever 
 it lacks in that, it gains in pure adrenaline. The radio is the best thing to listen to when on 
 a wild rampage. I refer Kchat for its hilarity as well as VCPR. On the whole, the graphics are 
 pretty good so gameplay is the most powerful aspect of GTA VC. Kick ass game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miguelhidalgo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2005 9:28 pm PT
Review:  first find a bathroom then when you get to the toilet put this code feelsgoodbutisverygrossandrich 
 then on the top of the screen it will say [press ctrl+x] then tommy will sit in the toilet and 
 poop. this code also unlocks to sleep in a bed but first you have to buy every house you can if 
 this cheat doesent work it will surely unlock everything. (if you dont put this code right the first 
 time you will automatically lose all your game, so be wise) but if you put it right the first time, 
 then you will pass the game have bodyguards 200 health 200 armor all the cars and will be able 
 to take **** and get some sleep (tommy lays down on his bed) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartyVice30
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 18, 2005 8:56 pm PT
Review:  I think Vice City is an amazing game that really captures the feel that Rockstar wanted to create. 
 That is an 80's theme of hip music and bright lights. Unlike GTA 3's theme where the city was always 
 dark and gloomy Vice City's theme is always bright and there are rollerskaters half nude skating 
 around and people in tacky clothes walking around which really captures the whole essence of the 
 game. Definately a game where alot of effort was involved. and you really get into the storyline 
 and want to continue.
  
  Gameplay: The Gameplay is absolutely amazing and is very long so it keeps u entertained and the 
 storyline keeps you hooked
  
  Graphics: The graphics are not bad but could use improvement. I like it how if you look at the 
 sun u can see the little rings of reflection
  
  Sound: the sound is very good also the cars sound exactly how you would expect and the sound track 
 and weapon sounds are great also.
  
  Value: Excellent Value game lasts u a long time and lots of replayability and lots of side missions 
 which are fun also.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spidster0
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 16, 2005 5:24 am PT
Review:  WOW THIS IS SO COOL
  its the first time that i am playing in GTA
  and im so love it!!! all the killing and the blood 
  and the peoples that running and the police 
 on you
  and you kill the police and then you gett moer stars!!
  ROFL and the missions are so cool!!!
  and you gett money and you need to kill some one some times!!!
 
  its so cool and im so happy that im playing that game!!!
  its so worth!!!! EVERY ONE GETT THAT GAME FAST!!!!
  if you didnt played in GTA you have to start
 
  because you cant stop!!!!!!! i can't belive that i didnt play GTA befor
  WHAT A WASTE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freak24
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 3, 2005 9:45 am PT
Review:  this is a must play for any grand theft auto fan! the game is good on pc as it does have the best 
 graphics.
  the game starts off as a deal goes wrong and you are left with your friend, mr lawyer who i can't 
 remember the name of.
  you can change clothes a bit like in the next game. you go around driving toys, helicopters posh 
 sport cars and motorbikes all in not liberty city but vice city.
  the only bad thing i can think of with this game is that i found some problems with the controls 
 at first but apart from that it is a must! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Encimedes
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 27, 2005 10:40 am PT
Review:  Don't understand me wrong I love computer games and I dont think Violnt games are to be blame in 
 everything and I'm a serious gamer. But I had problem with GTA: Vice City and I'll explain.
  
  The good:
  The weapons arsenal is amazaing and the driving is exellent, great music and sound 
 and the radio fun to hear, the missions are well done and the plot is nice (but not too sophisticated) , 
 you can roam free all around Vice City with cars, helicopters, bikes and boats, the action is great.
 
  
  The bad:
  Low AI which makes me sometimes laugh and sometimes cry, the all game is around driving and killing 
 and there is not very depht which cuts the game's value, the graphics are dated but not too ugly, 
 doesn't offer new things that wasn't in GTA III.
  
  Finnaly, I recommend the game for everyone if they have extra money or just like the formula and 
 needs something to make them busy 'till what game they want comes out. The reall problem here is 
 it's only around killing people but hey it's fun to see blood... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: axel91
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 27, 2005 4:28 am PT
Review:  this game is awsome i mean the story the characters and the cool weapons the first time i played 
 this was for two years ago and i have to say it was abesolutely genius i hope the next gta will 
 be ass super perfect as this i know most of you will say 10.0 score this guy is just stupid but 
 belive me you can go home to your gta and play it done and when you finish playing then coe back 
 and tell me that its goog and san andreas is just fine all the games are to good and my last words 
 are gta is the best game in the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joelholmes
Rating: 1.3
Date: Nov 19, 2005 10:01 am PT
Review:  I never figured out the hype of the GTA series. I don't understand why so many fanboys soil themselves 
 with a game like this.
  
  In GTA Vice City you play Tommy Vercetti, a lame Italian American stereotype mob guy who's trying 
 to make a life in Vice City doing whatever dirty deeds he can for some green. And by Dirty deeds 
 I mean fetch quests. Every mission involves either "Go to blah blah blah" and/or "Kill so and so" 
 or "blow up this and this and this".
  
  Seems rather boring. I can't beleive so many awesome 80's hair metal bands wasted their royalties 
 on this by putting their music in the game.
  
  I think Rockstar needs to ditch the lame GTA series and get back to work on Max Payne, the rare 
 Rockstar sereis that DOESN'T suck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pilsener
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 18, 2005 6:06 am PT
Review:  One of the best games i ever played, you have so much to do in the game, even after you finish 
 with every mission you can always fin out what to do in the vice city, and the missions are very 
 well elaborated, they got lots of challenges, and also you have some other extra stuff you can 
 do to gain more reputation and own more things, over all a really good good game, with alot to 
 offer and a exelent story, i would love to live in a city like that and get away with all that 
 i did hehe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghoulishdoll
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 12, 2005 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- never lets us down in this department, especially with the many different jobs that u 
 can take on this land we call vice city. 2 fairly big islands seperated by about 3 bridges makes 
 it a nice playground for lots of violent fun. Missions are well thought of and characters in this 
 game like all the other GTA games have their own uniqueness about them.
  
  Sound- The radio stations in this game really add up to making the perfect CD. With many different 
 radio stations to tune to for any kind of taste of music u can feel. It adds to the superb gameplay 
 that is vice city. The sound of the weaponry is decent enough and the pedestrians attitude towards 
 you is pretty good too. 
  
  Graphics- A big map so u cant really expect great graphics, but it does surprise u with fairly 
 nice graphics at least. Decent enough to have lotsa fun and realism inside it.
  
  Value For Money- a definite must-buy for those loyal GTA fans. Also for those who enjoy a big urban 
 environment to have fun in will enjoy this game. A worthy game for your money which should keep 
 u entertained for at least a week of non stop playing, and about maybe a few months for those light 
 gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cstrip
Rating: 4.6
Date: Nov 8, 2005 6:27 pm PT
Review:  I would like to say that I loved gta III and had high hopes for gta vice city but I was very sad 
 to say that this is the worst game with the gta name I do think the air planes and the motorcycles 
 make the game somewhat fun but the story line is loosely put together and the games tries to do 
 to many things at once and does all of them poorly but I do like the music in the game and the 
 mp3 radio is a very fun but not worth your money and not worth your gaming time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gilillo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2005 3:20 pm PT
Review:  GTA: Vice city is a game that never ends. When you play GTA VC, you feels that you are really inside 
 of that virtual World; it's incredible how much free we are, we can have fun just exploring the 
 city and that will take you several hours, and if that isn't enough, you can just kill every body 
 to create a huge chaos. In the other hand, you can just end the missions of the game, wish would 
 be very hard if you don't have a good guide. The difficulty of the game is well balanced, you start 
 with routine missions, but at the end of the game you'll need many hours and many attempts to accomplish 
 your duty.
  
  The graphics are amassing, it's awesome the sensation that cause you to see the evening, or a rainy 
 night, or when you jump in a ferrari. One of the best things that the game got, is the "minigames" 
 that you see in several missions, as fire in a helicopter, a boats race, o drive a remote control 
 helicopter, this causes that the game never turn bored. The music is great, and also the FX. Just 
 a bad point, the game don't have a multiplayer option, but there are who is working on that
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: elliot_
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 25, 2005 7:45 am PT
Review:  super hyper aliviante para o stress...
  olha  um bom jogo com os grficos +/-, e um pouco viciante!!!
  
  Mas num  akela coisa que 
 todos falam... um joguitu mais ou menos....
   apenas fixe...
   verdade k  enorme, mas ao mesmo tempo um bocado repetitivo e ao fim de algum tempo passa a cansar....
 
  Mas as musicas sao mt boas, e existe uma grande variedade de carros, mas a cidade de GTA3  maior 
 e melhor!
  
  I personaly prefer GTA3!
  And the game is not that Thing, like everybody says...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CarmineJunior
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 22, 2005 1:31 pm PT
Review:  GTA Vice City is a very great game. Simple as that. You will covince yourself as soon as you get 
 into the action in the person of Tommy Vercetti. The story is more exotic, presented in a Miami 
 related style. The graphics are good, and the music bangs. It is simply astonishing how much good 
 music is there to listen to. Over 50 great songs ranging from 70's to 90's. The cars are redesinged 
 (the ones which were present in GTA III) and more are added. Some new weapons like knife, machete 
 or chainsaw. Very controversial and interesting characters like Candy Suxxx or Lance Vance or even 
 the craziest one , in my opinion, Ricardo Diaz. The driving is somehow changed and you are more 
 likely to have 
  very hard time with tight curves or narrow paths at high speeds.
  And one very important thing: the main charachter is active and speaks with other characters ;) 
 
  Overall, it is something great, challenging and addicting in the same time. 
  It is adviceable to have a 64 MB VRAM (this should do the trick with any brand) and a 1000+ Mhz 
 processor for a good loading. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazare
Rating: 7.8
Date: Oct 22, 2005 10:05 am PT
Review:  Gameplay:
  Very good gameplay for me. Here you can drive a car, plane boat and you can also ride a bike. In 
 this game you have 60 missions and sub missions. One of this is you must kill man with a blade, 
 drive a boat, drive a plane and kill some Cubans on the road. Here in this game you can also buy 
 a house!!!
  
  Graphic:
  Graphic is also good. In game is water and is big city.
  
  Sound:
  Sound is very good and also is musics. You can listen a radio in car and on radio stations 
 is rock, pop, rep...
  
  Value
  Yes you must buy this game is very good, and is better than of GTA 3!!!!
  
  Tilt
  Is amazing 
 game!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Jordo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 18, 2005 11:59 am PT
Review:  "Vice city, a huge urban sprawl stretching from the beach to the swamps and glitz to the ghetto, 
 a town brimming with delights and degradation"
  Vice city, is of course, based on Miami, and this game has inspired the Grand Theft Auto series 
 to expand, with San Andreas already out, and another GTA being created as you read this.
  The freedom you get in this game is mainly, what made it so popular, the range of vehicles you 
 can drive/pilot, also the amount of firearms and other weapons (with amazingly different types 
 to try out on random civilians from Aks and uzis to screwdrivers and hammers) , and finally the 
 amount of properties you can purchase all add up to make this perfect 10 out of 10 game what it 
 is.
  You get hours of fun also from the missions set for Tommy Vercetti, the main character you control, 
 which is all part of a brilliant storyline, the missions range from dropping off a women at a strip 
 club, to destroying a building with a toy helicopter, also many missions included killing many 
 people.
  Vice City is huge for a video game, even if San Andreas is six times as big, and there is a noticeable 
 difference in the islands. The first island, which includes Ocean Beach, Vice point, Washington 
 Beach and Leaf Links, is the tourist island, including many hotels, night clubs, strip clubs, shops, 
 etc, it even has a mall, and a golf course! Prawn Island has a film studio which you can purchase, 
 Starfish Island is a rich island, with many mansions, and the last island, has an army base, airport, 
 docks, a tatty Cuban gangster area called Little Haiti (which looks a bit like where your first 
 home is in San Andreas) , but north of Haiti lays downtown, with many skyscrapers, and a unattractive 
 beach, but downtown also has the Hyman Memorial Stadium, the place where there is many races, and 
 a dirt track. 
  The cars on offer, range from saloons, to sport cars, to super cars, jeeps, home-use trucks and 
 SUVs, vans, service vehicles, limos, but a new instalment to the GTA world is motorbikes, including 
 the legend called a PCJ-600 (based on a Ducati apparently, this bike is so popular it returns in 
 San Andreas) and a Sanchez (a dirt bike) , and a freeway and angel (both based on Harley-Davidson 
 bikes) . There are also two planes including a sea skimmer (a plane that can land on the sea) and 
 many types helicopters, with range from normal helicopters to Army helicopters, here are a few:
 
  
  Maverick/Police Maverick (both are normal looking helicopters, the only change with the police 
 version is the paint job)
  News Maverick (which handles very differently to the other 
  Sea Sparrow (which comes with a machine gun attached)
  Hunter (apache helicopter, with twin rocket 
 launchers, and a Minigun.
  
  All of these vehicles come with a brilliant collection of soundtracks from the 80's, these are 
 put into groups, and put onto a radio, including rock (VROCK) , pop (FLASH FM) etc. These radio 
 stations don't just play songs, but are also the main way that rockstar used to input great jokes.
 
  
  All in all this game is of exceptional quality, and will keep you entertained for hours, another 
 classic from Rockstar. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: leon_hitman_47
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 18, 2005 9:49 am PT
Review:  I consider Vice City as the best game for PC for the year 2003. The gameplay, the storyline and 
 "ESPECIALLY" the side missions are fun. Vice City creates a virtual environment that is full of 
 fun and entertainment. The music in the game consisting of Radio Stations is very good. And if 
 you really don't want to play the missions, THEN ROAM IN THE CITY FOR PURE FUN. Also, we have to 
 find some 100 hidden packages and rampages accross the city. So, I don't consider this a linear 
 game, because we always have an option for not only choosing the missions like GTA III, but also 
 unlocking some cool stuff in the whole city. So, for those of us who haven't played this game yet, 
 I have to say that don't look any further because you will love Vice City as everybody does. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeshwent
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2005 5:24 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto: Vice City is the sequel of The Game of the year of 2002 GTA 3. Vice City like 
 GTA 3 explores the areas of undercover criminal empire and mafia. GTA 3 was based on the Liberty 
 City, which was a New York like look alike. If you thought that there was no such game as perfect 
 as GTA 3 you certainly have to change your thoughts because GTA: Vice City is the best game in 
 the entire series. I have written this review about Vice City even after playing GTA: San Andreas. 
 But San Andreas does not come anywhere near Vice City.
  
  Overall Vice City is a completely new game rather than a sequel to GTA 3. The GTA 3 characters 
 were not properly characterized but Vice City `s characters are it` s main strength. Even though 
 the character voices were good in GTA 3 but the characters were loosely created. Vice City characters 
 are the rarest phenomenon and Rockstar has created the best set of characters in the entire GTA 
 series. Characters like Ricardo Diaz, Lance Vance, Ken Rosenberg, Colonel Cortez are excellently 
 voiced and created. Moreover the storyline of Vice City is much more stable than GTA 3.
  
  But the biggest advantage comes as the protagonist or the character, which you play as. Unfortunately 
 in GTA 3, you were put as an anonymous personality who was completely mute. In Vice City you are 
 put as Tommy Vercetti, a tough guy who has failed a job and his boss gets furious with him and 
 asks for $100,000. Well you don` t have that much but once you come to Vice City there are loads 
 of ways through which you could earn money. Another new feature in Vice City is that it allows 
 you to buy up clubs and businesses, which will produce a daily profit for you.
  
  The graphics I felt were THE BEST in Vice City with no regrets with the radio stations and sound 
 too. The only regret I felt in the whole game was that the story initially shows the increasing 
 love interests between Tommy and Colonel` s daughter, Mercedes Cortez (the totally beautiful lady) . But 
 as the story advances the character of Mercedes is shown less interest and priority.
  
  But Vice City is the best game of all time and it is really going to take a real good game to beat 
 this one.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiltus
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 11, 2005 8:30 pm PT
Review:  This game should be banned! It's a danger to everyone. Not because it hurts our children, but because 
 it is so addictive! I failed a semester at Uni due to this game, and countless hours of my life 
 have dissapeared playing it. The game is great, and even though there are a few quirks, they are 
 soon forgotten. Vice City has a decent length main storyline, but it is the things you can do on 
 the side which make this a classic. Some missions are a little bit backward, and certain ones can 
 get irritating, but overall it is great fun, even if you're just crusing around Starfish Island 
 in your beautiful yellow Comet. Here in Australia, it is now selling for $AU20, and is one of the 
 best games for that price I've come across. Must Play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 28, 2005 7:33 am PT
Review:  If we don't count San Andreas in, then Vice City is the best in the series so far! It's one of 
 the few games you can play for days straight! I've only played GTA 1, and 2... some say that VC 
 is just GTA 3, only with a new story, characters, weapons and all that kind of stuff.
  But anyway, Vice City has some of the best mission, driving, shooting, running and intense gameplay 
 of all time! 
  
  Gameplay: The Grand Theft Auto-gameplay strikes again! The GTA series is revolutionary and amazing 
 if you hadn't played them before. I just love it!
  
  Graphics: The graphics are nothing special... could have been better, but it's not the worst i 
 have seen yet.
  
  Sound: The sound is a little disappointing. The only thing there's good about the sound is the 
 radio. Personally I like, that you can put your own Mp3 music in the radio.
  
  Value: Kinda expensive, but anyway the price is worth it.
  
  Grand Theft Auto Vice City, is 
 a game that the owner of a copy should be really proud about to own... but in a way it's nothing 
 special to have a copy, but what I mean is that, the game is great, fantastic and all that s*** 
 :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ciro_xyz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 3, 2005 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Game takes place in beautiful and huge Vice City. You play as Tony Vercetti, the mafioso. Game 
 starts with you and your gand being ambushed during a deal, that is money takeover, where you barely 
 pull out alive. Things get complicated when your boss blames you for money loss, and wants you 
 to return the cash, no more or less then $100 000. Of course, as a small mafioso, you dont have 
 that much money, so during your life in Vice City, you must work hard to return it to the boss. 
 You will have to do many dirty jobs for Vice City's big bosses to earn and return the cash. However, 
 things wont go their way and YOU will eventully become the Big Boss.
  
  There are many cartels and characters in the game, among which are: Columbians, Haitans, Triads, 
 Metal-heads, etc. During a game you will remove some of them (their bosses) so you wont be welcome 
 in many areas of city. Whenever they recognize you, they will try to kill you, period. 
  
  Besides cars, as way of transport, you can ride bikes, fly chopers, and aeroplane which you discover 
 during one of the missions. There are several types of bikes (sports bike, crosser, pizza boy etc.) 
 and heli's, and a lot of cars. I dont have to mention that every car has different characteristics.
 
  What's new in series is ability to buy properties, and make money that way. You are not restricted 
 to work for others anymore, now you can be a bussinesman and make your own money. You can buy: 
 flats, apartments, houses, and a lot of bussines, like cab company, ice-cream company etc. You 
 use amartments, houses, and other living spaces to save your game, restore health, park a nice 
 car, or a heli. You can also change clothes there, which is an interesting feature (you discover 
 what for on your own) . 
  City is full of locations you can visit, and buildings you can enter. Some of them are: airport, 
 pizza, ammunation, junkyard, racing circuit, many apartments, houses, shooting range, building 
 sites etc. Some missions take place at these locations, so you will not miss them, but you'll have 
 to discover some on your own.
  City includes a lot of bonus items and places, like stunt places where you can test your acrobatic 
 skills. 
  When talking about weapons, you have many means of destruction at your disposal: pistols, macs, 
 shotguns, rifles, rocket launchers, flame throwers, tipical GTA stuff. 
  Even when you finish the game (main quest, story) you have a lot of hours of fun left, because 
 it is only (statisticaly) 50% of the game! So, after you take over the city, you can do many missions 
 to raise your funds or just to enjoy beutiful graphics and sound which game offers. 
  
  Graphics is at today's games level. It's not Far Cry or Doom but it is nice looking and pleasant 
 for eye. You are free to look at the screenshots. 
  
  On the other hand, sound is something fenomenal in GTA series. You are followed through the game 
 by funny chat and nice music from different radio stations in Vice City. You'll hear voice of Maurice 
 Chavez, Fernandez, and other interesting characters, and theirs live shows. Music is original, 
 including many performers from 80ies, like Iron Maiden, Michael Jackson, etc. It's all nicelly 
 packed in MP3 format so you can replace original music with your own, and listen to your own stations, 
 by simle editing. 
  
  This is definitly great, addictive game that will take you hours and hours of your precious time, 
 but every second pays of! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unreal-Strife
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 18, 2005 7:22 am PT
Review:  GTA is back, and it's time to stock up with coffee for the sleepless nights you'll endure just 
 to play this game. 
  
  Vice City is the latest installment for the venerable GTA series. Vice City doesn't change the 
 formula of it's award winning predecessor. Arguably, this is the best game in the GTA series, and 
 I fully agree with it. Apparently, Rockstar follows the formula of bigger and badder. Vice City 
 is about two times larger than Liberty City and it all means better for the fans. 
  
  The graphics are improved and looks a whole lot better, but still isn't that great, and character 
 hands are worse than before, having just mere blocks or flesh. The music is even better in Vice 
 City, with more radio stations and funnier talk stations on air. Vice City improves on GTA III's 
 vehicle handling, and you get a better sense of speed this time, even on old models of cars while 
 the sports cars are undrivable at top speeds. This may be a reason on why I was always crashing 
 into invisible walls at top speeds. The draw distance is much improved, but still flaws when driving 
 at top speeds. The weapons system has also underwent an overhaul, requiring you to choose a weapon 
 of specific class instead of letting you get all weapons. 
  
  There are also more vehicles in this game, with important additions like helicopters and motorcycles. 
 I personally prefer the motorcycles as they're fast and sleek, allowing you to slip through traffic 
 easily.
  
  Overall, this is a sequel to GTA III, and all fans of GTA III must get Vice City. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: litledog1
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jun 8, 2005 8:52 am PT
Review:  It is easily noticable that these are console graphics - no spark to them, and as for the textured-up 
 graphics on the box: forgetabout them thats just false advertising. Even the view distance of the 
 cars is terrible - look away for a sec and the car you were chasing has disapeared - and thats 
 not just a fast car!
  
  The cars are not realisticaly to drive - they feal to fast when you're (in 'reality') going only 
 20mph. The AI is rubbish, the camera views are normaly terrible, the missions are boring and repetative, 
 the city still doesn't feal alive, and the so called 'plot' is also repetative, with badly done 
 'movie' scenes which are merely a play centre for the game developers to get in 'naghty' words. 
 When the only redeeming feature of a game is its licensed soundtrack, you know you're in trouble 
 - and even that is much worse than the original: no Chatterbox FM!
  
  The missions as i said are badly designed - controls often more so: guiding a remote control helicopter 
 what IS the point why not just plant the explosives there yourself?!
  
  All in all - a console game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDWilliams05
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 2, 2005 10:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is by far one of the greatest in the series. The graphics are no where on par with San 
 Andreas, however, don't let that discourage you, this is simply Grand Theft Auto III with some 
 miami vice flavor thrown in to spice it up a bit. Let's get down to business.
  
  Gameplay: The game play is just like GTA III not much to say about it. You run and gun, perform 
 missions, expand your empire. The one thing that this game does do is provide an alternate way 
 of earning money in the form of buying properties, which you can go by and collect money. 
  
  Graphics: The graphics aren't really anything different than GTAIII again it just has a miami 
 look to it. The gangs are well identified by their clothing and most times will react realistically 
 to one another.
  
  Sound: The sound is awesome. Each weapon sounds different, although flat sounding. The dialog is 
 awesome, very well scripted and very well written. Some points are very predictable.
  
  Value: Because of the open ended gameplay the replay value is unlimited. Something can always be 
 done differently
  
  Tilt: Setting it all the way to 10 because this is an awesome game through and through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vissuluth
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 17, 2005 10:40 am PT
Review:  Abans de res, dic que no mel vaig acabar, per que em vaig quedar a la ltima missi, per em 
 vaig quedar encallat i no vaig saber com accedir-hi, per poder fer-la, de totes maneres mhavia 
 quedat quasi sense forces per acabar-mel, la veritat s que desprs de fer el joc anterior, et 
 queden poques forces per fer aquest, encara que quasi ho aconsegueixo, aix s, passant dures penes 
 per fer-ho.
  El joc, tot i tenir batsantes novetats, crec que s bastant inferior a lanterior, per no tcnicament, 
 sin, sensorialment, mexplico, la histria no s tant absorvent, les missions tenen menys sentit, 
 i no estan tant ben enclassades en la trama principal. La trama principal s bastant curta, el 
 joc sallarga si et dediques a fer totes les missions secundries, sin tel faries bastant rpid. 
 Les novetats allarguen el joc, com la obtenci de pisos i locals, i la consequent feina, misisions, 
 qu has de fer amb cada un.
  Aquest cop no mhe dedicat ni ha buscar els secrets amagats, a ms crec que estan ms ben amagats 
 que en el joc anterior, per ha sigut culpa meva el no trobar-los, com he dit mha faltat forsa 
 i pacincia.
  Espero que en el seguent joc aconsegueixin un altre cop absorvir a aquell que hi juga. En aquest 
 tho passes millor fent les missions secundries que les principals, sn ms divertides, i tamb 
 organitzar les carreres, i aconseguir cotxes especials.
  La fluides grfica s sorprenent, per segueix tenint el fallo dels cotxes que desapareixen, aix 
 mnprenya molt, que vegis un cotxe que b cap a tu, i si et girs i torns a mirar el cotxe resulta 
 que ha desaparegut, igual que en GTA 3, menprenya molt aix, he estat a punt de posar-li un 8 
 per al final he dixat un 9 perqu els grfics sn molt bons, larquitectura bona i ciutat maca 
 i gran.
  El sistema de grabaci s una merda, tenir que repetir les missions des del principi si ho fas 
 malaments un rotllo, aix fa que el joc sallargui innecessriament.
  Tot aix fa que les sensacions que mhan quedta no siguin del tot bones, encara que per aquells 
 que no tenen tanta experincia amb jocs com jo, deuen quedar enlluernats, per si tens experincia 
 i a ms a ms has jugat a lanterior, no et deixa cap sensaci fora de joc (Tilt-7) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrostHertz
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 15, 2005 11:08 am PT
Review:  Vice city is a lot better than the old one, with new vehicles, and the abillity to really get in 
 the airspace. The story looks a lot as the old ones - drugs, money, girls and respect. Also in 
 this game, as you progress you will unlock the bridges to new cities and islands. The missions 
 are fun and entertaining, can be very easy to very hard. The game is not that long, but if you 
 spend a lot of time just by roaming and killing the police, i'm sure you dont think your money 
 is wasted. Of course one of the improvements is new vehicles. All the cars are new, you can also 
 get helicopters like: News chopper, Police chopper and a normal chopper. A new feature is the bikes. 
 You can get Motercycles, dirtbikes and Harley's. They are fun to drive, but there is not a big 
 choice of different types and it is sometimes difficult just to find them on the road. One of the 
 missing things in this game is like in the old one: PLANES.... We want planes! Why can't we get 
 planes? I don't know. It's absurd that Rockstar haven't made plains in this sequal. The only plane 
 you can get is a little ''Dodo''. It is a little waterplane, that you need to use in a mission.
 
  
  You can also buy houses, departments and buildings like: Malibu clubs and strip clubs. When you 
 buy a house it will allow you to save every time you visit it, and some houses will offer you a 
 garage that you can store vehicles in or a helicopter on the roof.
  Also there is some new weapons. Actually much weapons. You either can buy or find.
  If you liked 
 the other GTA games, you really need to have this to your collection. It's GTA as you know it. 
 Just with lot more fun and improvements. I will recommend you buy the GTA: Double pack for XBOX 
 or Playstation 2, it contains both GTA 3 and GTA 3: Vice City.
  
  Gameplay: Vehicles, guns and a big city, it's all yours. It's just damn fun to roam arround the 
 city and do whatever you like, the gameplay is extremely entertaining. 10 out of 10
  
  Graphics: The graphics isn't that good. The peoples hands a just a square and sometimes in the 
 movies, peoples eyes just get 5 times bigger in a second. The vehicles is very nice and detailed 
 though. 8 out of 10
  
  Sound: All the sounds of the vehicles motors is great, the gunfire sound is great and the peoples 
 voices are bullseye. 10 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_of_fire
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2005 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto: Vice City, a great name in a great series, well after the release of GTA:3 the 
 series gained a lot of attention from me and I loved the series. I like the gameplay, but I didn't 
 intent to find this few additions.
  
  The things that this game brought were it had many new cars and the new motorbikes and planes along 
 with a few helicopters in it. The most interesting thing about the new vehicles were that they 
 all were improved, the driving had some adjustments that included the jump-out of the car move 
 or the sniper shootings.
  
  Although everything else was change or adjusted, Tommy Vercetti (the main character and the hero) 
 never changed, or as far as I see it. The only thing he got was that in GTA: VC he spoke a lot. 
 The size and the shape of the guy never changed.
  
  Guns, guns, and guns, there have been a lot more gun additions in this game and many have been 
 modified to perform better. The number of guns in GTA:3 was close to nothing, but it seem a lot. 
 All the weapons can't be picked up by Tommy at the same time he has to exchange something to get 
 something.
  
  The music and the sound didn't improve that much, it had some new radio channels. The new and more 
 car sounds were good too.
  
  The graphics can't be said that they were the amazing but they were improved, not much but this 
 game had less glitches and better performance than GTA:3 which had just, okay enough graphics. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2005 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto: Vice City consists of many types of gameplay to keep you entertained. Shooting, 
 Driving (Boats, Cars, Helicoptors, and one Plane) , and Car Chases are what you'll be doing most, 
 though there are numerous other goals and activities such as Rampages (killing a certain number 
 of gangsters in a certain time with a certain weapon, as well as collecting 'Hidden Packages' which 
 open up more of the game. 
  
  This is a game for just about any gamer, as long as you're not looking for a game where you can 
 be a good citizen.. The balance in missions is great; there's a great variety in missions, so there 
 won't be too many of the missions you absolutely hate. Even the missions that have the same concept 
 play different, so if one type of mission annoyed you to death, chances are that will be the only 
 one like that. 
  
  The graphics are great in this game. Everything is modeled great and textured well, vehicles, buildings, 
 and people all look great. Though there does seem to be a lack of different models, you'll constantly 
 be seeing the same cars and the same people, which gets tiring when the rest of the game is downright 
 amazing. 
  
  Sound is equally as good. Pedestrians and those in cars can be heard muttering to themselves, or 
 having conversations, and yelling at you when you get in the way. Many of their quotes are quite 
 humerous as well, which really improves your outlook of the game when you're not expecting it. 
 The game also features about 10 different radio stations of different variety, which can be heard 
 and changed whenever you're in a vehicle. 
  
  I would definintly recommend this game to just about anyone. As long as you like action games, 
 and are not absolutely set off by chasing/driving missions, you will really like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmyRules
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2005 4:18 pm PT
Review:  This review will be more of a comparison to the PS2 version than a review of the game. Not every 
 gamer has a PC nor does every gamer want one. Those of us who have PC's for gaming will always 
 enjoy the benefits they provide over their console counterparts. With Vice City, that is exactly 
 what you will be doing, assuming you've had exposure to the PS2 version. Much has been written 
 and little is unknown at this point about what there is to do in a "GTA" game. So what makes this 
 game worth buying if you've already played the PS2 version? Graphics! Aside from that, if you like 
 playing games using a keyboard and mouse over a controller, you'll enjoy this version as well. 
 The only complaint I have with the control scheme is that the helicopter is difficult to control, 
 but I think some time in the options menu re-mapping my controls can take care of that. The aiming 
 is like you are playing a FSP with a gun whose accuracy is not the greatest. The game though is 
 tremendous fun to play on the computer and the high resolutions offered on the PC make viewing 
 this game simply a pleasure. Another added benefit the PC version has is the ability to implement 
 mod content, though I haven't done so myself. Options are there however and that is worth noting. 
 Vice City was a phenomenal sequel to GTAIII back on the PS2 and it is nice to be able to play this 
 game in all of its glory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Hans-
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 23, 2005 1:31 am PT
Review:  GTA3 was revolutionary. I would agree. GTAVC is a boring rehash. I would also agree. It follows 
 the previous version very closely, and that just doesnt cut it. The game feels very uninspired 
 compared the last installment in the ever popular series.
  
  You play as Tommy Vercetti, a criminal (surprise surprise!!) complete with voices and bleached 
 jeans. Damn. It sounded cool a while ago, but after playing the game, its not that great. It seems 
 like Rockstar is forcing a personality down your throat. What I liked about GTA3 was that the main 
 character was nameless... had little or no personality. He could be whoever you want. 
  
  The town itself is completely boring. No hills to launch off. A lot of cars are rehashed, and the 
 new ones are crappy. All of them handle very weird compared to GTA3. The missions, story, etc... 
 all feel the same. BORING!
  
  The only new things they added that were good was the helicopters and motorcycles. Other than that, 
 its the same game. But it kept me occupied for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolverine_r
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 21, 2005 6:19 pm PT
Review:  To start with, Grand Theft Auto: Vice City is easily one of the best PC games of all time and can 
 be whole-heartedly recommended to anybody into Action-Adventure games. Vice City improves considerably 
 upon every aspect of Grand Theft Auto III (Or Liberty City otherwise) and introduces some new features 
 of its own to stand at the summit of the PC action-adventure genre.
  
  After just the initial hours in Vice City and you realize that this is going to be quite a different 
 experience to the one you experienced in Liberty City. The most obvious difference between Vice 
 City and Liberty City is that of a superficial one in that the whole city here is modeled after 
 the 1980's Miami and looks a lot different from Liberty City which was modeled after New York City. 
 The huge skyscrapers resembling NY's many are replaced by the beach sand and palm trees of Miami. 
 The city is quite big and detailed and it will take you hours to just roam around and explore this 
 beautiful metropolitan. The city is not just for the eyes and almost every object in the world 
 can be used in any manner of your choice. You are free to enter any car parked on the roads and 
 drive it or enter into any house and look for hidden loot. The city is made up of what is necessarily 
 three islands connected via roads and bridges and you will visit each of them through the course 
 of the game for some mission or the other.
  
  Vice City features one of the most open ended game play and best written stories in any game seen 
 to date. You are Tommy Vercetti a hard hitting convict who has just spent time in the cells of 
 Liberty City State Prison. As soon as you are released you are hired by your old boss Sonny Forelli 
 to do a small job that goes horribly wrong and you lose Sonny's cash and the goods you were supposed 
 to collect. You start off to relocate your lost cash and soon are aiming to be the baddest man 
 in Vice City taking over the entire city. 
  
  The story in Vice City is advanced through beautifully rendered cut scenes that give you enough 
 insight on the story and why you are going to undertake a particular mission. After your first 
 few hours through Vice City you will find that you can undertake the missions in any choice that 
 you want. You will have many missions open to you at any particular time and you can choose the 
 one that you want to undertake. Each of the missions and where they can be undertaken are marked 
 clearly on the map which is ever present in your HUD (Heads up Display) . The HUD also shows you 
 your health, armor and the weapon you have armed and is ignorable enough to not interfere with 
 your experience in the game. 
  
  The variety of missions range from normal shooting missions, intimidating a few people for your 
 clients, helicopter missions and many others that you will just have to experience yourself to 
 find out. Through the middle of the game you will also be introduced to the Property System. In 
 not complicating and spoiling stuff this system allows you to buy certain properties in certain 
 areas of the map and finish the tasks that accompany with them in order to advance through the 
 game and that is not the only reason for finishing them as every property which you buy and finish 
 missions on will start to generate a certain amount of revenue which you can collect regularly 
 thus increasing your wealth. This is a major addition over GTA III. 
  
  The save system has been exactly retaken from GTA III without any change. This means you can save 
 in any of your properties just by standing on top of the videotape icon present there. However, 
 you cannot save while on a mission and you are limited to saving in between missions. But this 
 doesn't mean that some of your experiences in Vice City are going to be frustrating, on the contrary 
 this kind of save system allows for the perfect balance in not allowing a player to save anytime 
 which would make the game fairly easy and making the missions themselves a bit challenging which 
 means that you will have to think in order to finish a particular mission. 
  
  Other than the core missions themselves you can go about to find Rampages in which you will have 
 to kill a given number of gang members or destroy a given number of vehicles in the allotted time 
 and there are thirty-five of them in all. Other than that you can try to find Hidden Packages which 
 give you added wealth as well as give you bonuses for every ten you find and shockingly enough 
 there are a total of 100 hidden packages lying around the city. You can also choose the fastest 
 car or bike in Vice City and try to jump high using ramps that are intelligently placed around 
 the City and also try to do wheelies and additional stunts that again give you money depending 
 on the difficulty and technicality of the stunt. The amazing number of vehicles you will find in 
 Vice City is also added bonus over Liberty City. In GTA III you were only given access to cars, 
 police vehicles and ambulances. In Vice City you have access to bikes and helicopters in addition 
 to the already mentioned cars. You will also have additional missions using said police vehicles 
 and ambulances which you can carry out to gain additional bonuses.
  
  The graphics in Vice City are simply to say stunning and will leave you breathless for quite some 
 time. As stated Vice City features a sprawling and open-ended city which has highly detailed graphics. 
 The eye-capturing beauty of Miami has been re-created to great effect by Rockstar games in Vice 
 City. The beaches and the array of buildings you will see in Vice City will be a treat to the eye 
 of those who can appreciate them. The character models in the game all look amazingly life like 
 and every citizen looks and acts in a way a real life counterpart would, for example, if you beat 
 a rough looking guy he will come back at you and if you beat an innocent looking guy he will run 
 away from you with fear.
  
  Each of the vehicles in Vice City of which there are very many are highly detailed and have somewhat 
 realistic physics and damage effects. As already mentioned you have a variety of vehicles ranging 
 from bikes to slow road cars to high velocity speedsters to helicopters to boats and what not. 
 And the amazing thing is that you can drive all of these and you will definitely have to at some 
 point in the game. However, if there are beautiful graphics and you are talking about GTA then 
 there must be some issues accompanying it. In Vice City there are some serious frame rate issues 
 in some areas where even on high end systems the frame rate drops very low but these areas are 
 very few and far between and they are very small compared to the other good things in the game 
 that you can easily forget these few issues. Though the graphical requirements are quite high in 
 Vice City, even if your system just beats the minimum requirements you will have an pleasing time 
 playing Vice City with the only hindrances being the aforementioned frame rate issues that can 
 go un-noticed.
  
  The sound is one area where Vice City scores pretty high compared to other. Officially the amount 
 of stuff you will hear in the many different radio stations to choose from in Vice City amounts 
 to about 8 hours which is a lot. Vice City features a great sound track and one which you will 
 want to hear many times. There are many different radio stations to choose from and each one of 
 them is unique in their own right, you have a Spanish station, you have a station where people 
 will discuss social stuff and others that you will want to listen for your pleasure through the 
 many driving sequences in Vice City. On top of all that you can add any MP3 songs of your own choice 
 in the MP3 folder in the Vice City folder and listen to that as a separate radio station in itself. 
 Each of the weapons in Vice City has a unique firing and reloading sound which are all unique in 
 their own right. The different cars and bikes you will drive in Vice City also have different engine 
 sounds that you will want to drive each of them just to hear these different and unique engine 
 sounds. The dialogue for the game is well written and explicitly spoken by the very different characters 
 that you'll see in Vice City and will hold your attention for some time. Even the normal citizens 
 roaming around the city and the police men coming for you have well written dialogue that adds 
 to the realism in the game. 
  
  In the end, as mentioned above your experience through Vice City will be like none other and you 
 will enjoy the game right through till the end and the fun doesn't end there, you will be able 
 to roam freely around Vice City to look for some hidden missions like RC car races and some bike 
 and Helicopter checkpoint missions. Needless to say Vice City will take up much of your time and 
 will leave you sleepless for many nights and days.
  
  Vice City doesnt have an online package and it doesnt need to as a missing online component doesnt 
 detract from the pleasure derived by playing the game. Other games look at an online component 
 for its longevity but Vice City is so huge that even if you want to see everything in the game 
 you will never do it in one play through of the game. Therefore you have great replay value here 
 and even if you finish this game as many times as you want your experience will be different each 
 time. This game is a must buy for anybody who has been waiting for a PC port of this amazing PS2 
 game and easily one of the greatest games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xKrnBoI24x
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 19, 2005 9:50 pm PT
Review:  GTA III surprisingly amazed some video gamer audiences by revolutionizing the "free bird" experience. 
 What that means is like the video game is your freedom. You can kill, steal cars, punch people, 
 and do whatever. Vice City is the same with updates of that. Theres a new story, nice additions 
 to the weapons and cars and such ... On the outside, GTA: Vice City is a great sequel to GTA III. 
 But on the inside its the same old GTA.
  
  First, I want to comment on Rockstar's nice efforts to fix some buggys from the PS2 version to 
 the PC's. The obvious change is how much faster it loads. IT runs smoother than the PS2 version 
 does. The graphix look lil bit better and sound is same perfect as ever.
  
  Lets talk about the gameplay. If you saw the gamesite reviews off the charts.... and then look 
 at my review's final score... Dont get me wrong. Im being totally honest in this review. You're 
 Tommy, who helps his old time friend get a bunch of money back after some gangster members have 
 stolen from him. What you would do is missions that include viechles like cars, motercycles, boats, 
 and helicopters. You often are commanded to kill someone then retreave a breifcase or such. 
  
  The graphix dont look bad at all but lets say theyre not so awesome either. The textures look 
 way better on this PC version but is kinda still ugly... The blood the people the bulidings... 
 just dont look realistic or great...
  
  Heres the best part. Sound! The gameplay's sound is okay... but while you're driving a car or other 
 transportation viechle, you can switch radio stations which plays some of your favoirte 1980s music. 
 From Michael Jackson to other pop stars to "KChat" (a talk station) . The music is so good that 
 the game is worth buying for music as well
  
  I read the gamespot reviews and for a rare time... I disagreed heavily. Alot of casual gamers intend 
 to have fun killing those people with guns... then more murders to the cops... sniper shots to 
 the head.. blah blah you name it. Bottom line... this game has like no replay value. Sure it might 
 be fun to blow up and kill everyone/everything... but thats just once in awhile. After like 1hr 
 of doing that or so... its boring I tell you BORING. Its amazing how Rockstar managed to get so 
 much people's attention. Good thing for the value is that alot of missions may keep you busy having 
 fun.
  
  Lets not get anything wrong though. Its not a terrible game or bad game like I'm saying it is. 
 This review of course is my own opinion and not some fact. If you LOVED GTA3, this might blow you 
 away,, but if you think GTA games have been over-rated years and years to come... your opinion 
 wont change. I'm one of those people who believe the GTAIII-San Andreas series are over rated... 
 but like I said, If you love the series.. buy it. If not, rent/borrow it from someone else. Have 
 fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AronBk
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 31, 2005 4:14 pm PT
Review:  How i anticipated this game, and i certainly wasn't disappointed. Until I was done with the first 
 third of the game and i realised it was all just repetition. Havn't i played this mission before? 
 No wait, that time i did it for the cubans. After a couple of hours you've seen all of Vice city, 
 and no real surprises awaits you.
  
  I have to agree, it's all pretty nicely done. The graphics aren't advanced, but it's done at a 
 big scale and with a lot of style (plus it actually runs on slower machines, greatly appreciated) . 
 The cars handle nicely and are fun to drive. The sound works (the vehicles sound impressive, the 
 rest is mediocre) and the voiceovers are good. The soundtrack is (no surprises here) top notch.
 
  
  Still Vice City creates a poor illusion of a living city. For example, the people in the game, 
 the ones at the sidewalk, feel more like props than living people, and there's surprisingly few 
 things happening in the city. Besides, it's the same game for the 20 hours you play it. The city 
 doesn't change, the people doesn't change, I know it's no RPG, but it would be a lot more fun if 
 Tommy (our "hero") changed a little.
  
  And yes, i played it through. I don't know why.
  
  Urgh, i really hope San Andreas will offer more variation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmastaj
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 16, 2005 12:59 am PT
Review:  When vice city first came out i had no interest in buying it but last summer i decided i owed to 
 myself to try it out. I was stunned on how great the game was, the gameplay was fun and exciting 
 whether you were doing missions or just driving around town the game was awesome. The sound is 
 the best ive heard in a game so far with so many songs and stations to choose from you couldnt 
 lose. The graphics were a little blocky on the cutscenes but that was quickly forgotten. Overall 
 this game is an awesome game i will be playing for years to come and i cant wait until san andreas 
 comes out for pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fahrenheit1221
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 10, 2005 10:08 pm PT
Review:  Vice City may not be my personal favorite of the series but I will try to eliminate as much bias 
 as possible. I still thoroughly enjoyed the game as I did with any of the GTA games but this one 
 has a certain aura that isn't nearly as immersive as the others.
  
  Mainly the reason I feel Vice City is the worst in the (out of the newer 3) GTA series is because 
 of it's time and setting.... 1980's Miami. The game is too close to Scarface and rips it off on 
 several occasions. The voice acting in the game were good and this marked the beginning of big 
 stars in games in my opinion.
  
  Playing the role of Tommy Vercetti, Ray Liotta perfectly portrays the main we know and love... 
 the man who takes over Vice City. The game starts out in Liberty City with some background information 
 about your character Tommy before he is sent to Vice City to investigate the cocaine business and 
 to set up some connections for his gang of mobsters and contract killers.
  
  The whole game is set up just like GTA 3 where you work for different contractors and fulfill the 
 wishes of each character before moving on and usually coming back to kill the people you once worked 
 for... this always ends up happening in the GTA series, coincidence?
  
  There is a slightly larger city, which is more cheerful than the dark and slum-like Liberty City. 
 Vice City features beaches, cityscapes and a porn studio.... I know. The game has more sexual innuendo 
 than the first and is a bit more explicit as well.
  
  Other innovations include motorcycles, airplanes that fly easier and helicopters... but these are 
 just vehicular innovations. The game also has better textures and draw distance. There is a wide 
 array of weapons ranging from a Japanese Katana to a Vulcan Minigun (chain gun) . There are several 
 more interactive missions that require more and are more in depth than GTA III's missions. 
  
  Overall Vice City is an enjoyable experience especially if you have found yourself enjoying 
 the other GTA games. This one isn't my personal favorite but is still great none-the-less... highly 
 addictive and quite immersive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frostcurse
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2004 10:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredible, highly addictive and enjoyable. A solid storyline and well designed graphics, 
 can you ask for more? Another great game in the Grand Theft Auto series! 
  Vice city is, without doubt; is the best game in the GTA series and all players will enjoy it no 
 matter what. The best thing about this game is the freedom to choose which missions your doing 
 first and be a bad boy or not. Another great thing about this game are the properties you will 
 eventually get, which will give you side quests like printing money!
  If your a fan of GTA series you should absolutely get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta_maniac01
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 17, 2004 11:27 am PT
Review:  You are Tommy Vercetti, a guy coming from the jail and trying to rebuild his life in Vice City, 
 u start very bad because you lose Sony Forelli's money so you will need to improve in life. This 
 game has a lot to offer from missions and rampages to jumps and drive-bys. The missions are well 
 built but some of them are boring. Once you finish the storyline missions and assassinations you 
 still have a lot to do in order to get 100%. This game is pretty good for those people who like 
 to cause mayhem because you can kill cops all the time and there are a lot of cheats but beware, 
 if u cause too many caos the army will come and you are doomed. The graphics arent the best but 
 the gameplay compensates it. It has a great variety of sounds from V-rock to Radio Espantoso. You 
 should go quickly to a shop near you to buy this game (or san andreas) .
  (sorry for spelling, im not english) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saint_Francis
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 18, 2004 9:10 am PT
Review:  Vice City is one of those titles that you'd never, ever sell on Ebay, even after you've played 
 it to death for weeks, months, or years. You just let it sit on your dusty shelf, looking at it 
 in wonder and remembering what it means to have been a part of something created by the very hand 
 of perfection.
  
  Vice City is many things to many different people. It's a threat of extreme violence to those who 
 haven't played it. It's therapy to others... really. Then I needed to take a time-out and had to 
 get away from everything for a while, I'd remember what it felt like to drive down the main in 
 Vice City on my way somewhere adventureous. The sun was setting on another beautiful day, great 
 tunes were always playing on the airwaves, people were nonchalantly going about their business, 
 and there I was, a part of it all.
  
  It was the first time I really felt like somehow I was part of a game, not only what I did mattered 
 in the game, but somehow, what the game meant to me. Being a full participant gave me a sense of 
 control like no game before it. It's like living a double life, with no ill effects or regrets.
 
  
  You'll notice how I'm not discussing the game itself, the features and benefits. Then, you'll realise 
 that the truly great games don't need introduction or support in words, as it's already been done 
 many times by those who have to do that.
  
  All that you really needs to describe is just how the game changed you as a person. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 11, 2004 1:27 am PT
Review:  GTA Vice City is the follow up to the exceptional GTA III. While GTA III was a great game, it cannot 
 match the excellence that is VIce City. The music, the clothes, the style, it all feels right. 
 I played the game for about 10 hours the first couple of days after buying it, and felt totally 
 immersed in the 80's. And the open ended gameplay seems more right on here than in GTA III. The 
 concept of owning property adds a new dynamic to the game.
  
  The voice acting really brought this game to superstar status. Ray Liotta as Tony Vercetti was 
 pure genius. I never once thought of Tony being Ray Liotta, because he seemed so in character. 
 Dennis Hopper, Jenna Jameson, Phillip Michael Thomas, etc. what a cast. All of these actors seemed 
 to genuinely perform and not just phone it in for the game. This game sets the standard for voice 
 acting.
  
  Graphics were no better than the PS2 version, but due to being able to run at a higher resolution 
 than the PS2 made up for it in spades. 
  
  About the only complaint I could come up with was that the civilians are still to stupid to comprehend 
 getting out of the way of a speeding car. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toocooldragon
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 2, 2004 6:56 am PT
Review:  Ever since I played GTA III, I've been dumb-strucked with amazement as I drove a car i just jacked, 
 running people over and enjoying the sunset view. Now with Vice city I get to do crazy stunts on 
 hilltops and buildings with new rides such as the helicopter and motor bike. My only complaint 
 about the game is that there isn't enough action, the character just doesn't like to move around, 
 he gets tired so easily and you cant really do special interactive moves such as sitting down (not 
 that I like to play enjoy the sunset view while you sit for the whole night) . Car blowing up too 
 quick is also a big issue too.
  Another special feature about the PC version is the MP3 files. Now I can listen to tropical music 
 while i drive in the sandy beach. I would recommend racing and action gamers to anyone, the violence 
 is also cranked down a bit, as there won't be anymore falling legs or arms. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JR_HOLMES
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 2, 2004 1:20 am PT
Review:  In 2002 Rockstar games changed the way we look at the Action genre by giving the world a game that 
 gave you unending freedom as far as choosing how to do what, the game would give you a mission 
 and then it was up to you to make it happen any way you want, instead of assassinating someone 
 with a sniper rifle, you could run them over with a car, and it is this kind of flexibility and 
 open-ended gameplay that made GTA 3 and instant classic and one of the greatest games ever made.
 
  Rockstar is looking to improve this concept in its latest edition in the series Grand theft auto: 
 Vice city, and there goal had bean a success GTA: VC improves on almost every aspect of the last 
 game and adds many new features that will keep gamers interested in the game for years to come.
 
  
  Vice city takes place in a city of the same name, and witch has bean modeled to look in some way 
 like the city of Miami, with great vibrant lights coming off building walls, great and beautiful 
 colors as far as the scenery goes witch resembles a lot of buildings from the 70s.
  But Rockstar has added to the buildings than just eye candy and something to fill up space, in 
 Vice city you will actually be able to go inside some buildings like pizza shops and weapons shop 
 to buy items and equipment that will help you gain health and an advantage in the games missions.
 
  Some of the other buildings that you can enter include, a fake ice cream shop that sells drugs, 
 a Mansion, a verity of party clubs, many different apartment buildings with many storage bays for 
 vehicles, a car shop as well as many other small businesses that the user can use to get money 
 by completing an assortment of side missions that each piece of real estate offers.
  In last years game your player was only able to access a small portion of the city, and as the 
 player would play through the games missions more of the city would be unlocked, the same goes 
 for Vice city.
  The city is broken up into 4 pieces, 2 large stacks of land, and 2 small islands and the player 
 will have to unlock each of them one at a time by completing the games main storyline, but it takes 
 little time to unlock the whole city, for it is when you have unlocked all of the 4 parts of the 
 city that the really fun missions are unlocked.
  
  The missions in Vice city have some of the best in any storyline driven game, and make GTA what 
 it is today.
  The main story to Vice city is this you are an ex-convict that has just served a 15 year sentence 
 in jail, and is too much of a common face among the local residents to work in Liberty city for 
 awhile, so the head boss, Sonny sends the main character
  Tommy Vercetti to Vice city to oversee a cocaine deal with some of the local dealers in Vice city, 
 but the deal is a set up, the drug dealers and Tommys own gang members are ambushed and the attack 
 leaves everyone involved dead except for Tommy with the cocaine and the money being stolen by the 
 attackers, this sets up the main story and mission that start out with Tommy trying to get Sonnys 
 money back, but Rockstar has put in many twists and turns in the plot that will keep you guessing 
 and glued to the screen for every moment of it.
  The missions in Vice city are the classic kind of scenarios that would be found in a Mafia movie 
 of some sort, you will start out doing small jobs for friends of Sonny and while on those missions 
 you will meat other characters that will be impressed by you work and will call on you to do them 
 some favors, this is the way the game works you up the ranks in Vice city, and in the end Tommy 
 will be the boss calling his own shots in an attempt to take control of Vice city.
  
  The gameplay in Vice city is almost unchanged from GTA 3, you will still have the basic, run around 
 and shoot people, then jump in a car and drive off, but thankfully this simple style of gameplay 
 is just what gamers need, it is fun fast and addictive and will leave you with many nights when 
 you are up and playing until the wee hours of the morning.
  There are some new items in vice city that add to the gameplay in a small way and help to make 
 things fresh.
  As I said before the game is set in the 70s so naturally the vehicles are modeled accordingly you 
 will see cars that look like old chargers or classic sports cars, you are also able to drive motorcycles 
 in the game something that was missed in GTA 3 and they can reach very high speeds, and it really 
 feels like you are riding a motorcycle, the physics are done perfectly the bikes bounce properly 
 when they hit a jump and if you are going at top speeds and hit a car your player will go flying 
 off and loose some health once he has hit the ground, there are 3 types of motorcycles in the game, 
 there is one that looks like a old Hog witch is used by biker gangs thou out Vice city, and there 
 are also a sports bike that can reach great speeds, and there is a dirt bike witch is used in several 
 mini-game thou out the course of the story.
  Rockstar has really nailed the 70s look with its vehicles although the graphics in Vice city look 
 very out dated the vehicles look polished and great in all of the settings.
  
  When it all comes down to it Vice city is a game that will make almost all gamers happy with its 
 great blend of intense story, and open ended ness that allows you to take a break from the story 
 and just, blow stuff up.
  If you care about GTA or action games in general enough to read this whole review, then dont wait 
 another second and buy Grand theft auto: Vice city right now.
  
  JR_HOLMES
  Member since 2002 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gord_mose
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 24, 2004 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto: Vice City (GTA: VC) is an amazing game. No other game offers the same level of 
 violence and crime, with tons of cars and motorcycles to drive and race, as well as countless missions 
 and extras. This game is packed full of goodness!
  
  The difficulty level is quite a bit easier than GTA3, and the game is much more open ended with 
 alot more variety and extras. Sometimes the story gets lost and you wonder if it will ever come 
 back on track, but if you hang in with the (long) game you will find it quite rewarding.
  
  Gord_Mose 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martlume
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 20, 2004 12:59 pm PT
Review:  By turning the top-down view of GTA 1 & 2 into a living three-dimensional city in GTAIII and then 
 enhancing the gameplay by increasing vehicle and mission variety for GTA: Vice City, Rockstar has 
 managed to create one of the greatest and most fun games ever. Vice City is a Miami-style place 
 in the eighties where crime flocks in abundance and your purpose there is to "own the city" after 
 moving to Vice City from Liberty City (GTA3) and starting out as a petty criminal. You earn money 
 by completingmissions of unlawful nature, at first for your bosses and later for yourself, including 
 mostly vehicle-chases and shootouts. Cut-scenes are stylish and humorous and all the while when 
 you are driving you listen to one of the Vice City's hilarious award-winning 8 radio stations. 
 The greatest thing about GTA is its open-endedness: besides completing the plot-advancing missions, 
 there are plenty of other things to do in Vice City which help you advance your character or collect 
 new possessions that make life easier (vehicles, houses) . And if you do decide to get serious, 
 there are different ways to approach each mission in terms of vehicles (choppers, airplanes, cycles, 
 boats or cars) and weapons to use. Vice City also takes no "loading" breaks and vehicle-chases 
 around the city often involving the cops make every time a little different. The only beef one 
 could have with Vice City is that the shootouts are not as exciting as Mafia's, but for a game 
 that maintains so much freedom as how to complete your objectives, the gunfights are more than 
 satisfactory. 
  
  20/20 - Based on : 30 HOURS
  4/4 PRODUCTION VALUES - The whole city is displayed without any loading times (save for interiors) . 
 8 hours on hilarious radio programs with famous songs. Superb voice acting. And gameplay.
  4/4 ACCESSIBILITY - As easy as driving a car with 4 cursors and shooting in 3rd person mode.
 
  4/4 PACING - Good.
  4/4 INNOVATION - GTA started its own genre; something that happens very rarely nowadays.
  4/4 
 IMMERSION - After about 20 hours I started to feel like it's my city. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vermouth
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 16, 2004 3:03 pm PT
Review:  This game, despite all the hooplah, surprised this reviewer. I know about all the awards and acclaim 
 it garnished on the PS2, i know about the success of its predecessor on the PC but this game still 
 surprised me. It surprised me, because it was substantively better than GTA 3 in many real ways. 
 The gameplay was better and all the additions were for the better. The Feel was a serious improvement 
 over the dark, and dreary feel of the first game. But most of all the story was a highlight for 
 this game in a way that it just hadn't been before.
  First off the Actual gameplay had some real improvements that made it a lot of fun. Among these 
 included new forms of transportation, motor cycles, and helicopters and Speed boats and yachts. 
 Other than that the free form gameplay returns that lets you go through one mission after another 
 or just do whatever you like. Its all up to you. You want to be obscene you can do that you want 
 to go around driving obeying the traffic laws you can do that too.
  The Feel of the game is also much improved. The 80's Miami Vice styilization is just a lot more 
 fun that the gritty world of Vice city. You see people down by the beach in their swimsuits, people 
 dressed like gang members in Little Havanna and bussiness men take up a large part of the downtown 
 area. Further adding to the feel is a return of the excellent radio stations with lots and lots 
 of real 80's music. And if you aren't into 80's music you can import your own Mp3's to form your 
 own radio station. I've got my own Hard Rock station that plays Metallica and others of their ilk.
 
  The biggest improvement, the reason i liked this game where i didn't like its predecessor is the 
 story. In the 3rd GTA game, you were just controlling a nameless Avatar. This lack of a character 
 and lack of interesting other characters gave the game no compelling reason for me to care about 
 the single player game. You play Tommy Vercetti, a Mafia man who is sent down to Vice City to keep 
 him out of the way and make the mafia some money on a drug deal. Long story short the deal goes 
 awry and you need to get the drug money back before you get your legs broken and tossed in the 
 water. Also the characters are quite colorful and make the cutscenes entertaining and are oft voiced 
 by celebrities. Ray Liota is the voice of Tommy Vercetti and among the other voices are Miss Cleo, 
 Ozzy Ozbourne and Jenna Jameson. Between story and characters it gives the game an extra element 
 of fun that the 3rd game lacked.
  This game was a port that Rockstar took some time to do and it shows. I've noticed nary a major 
 glitch in the whole thing. I've seen a few clipping or pathfinding issues rear their ugly head 
 from time to time but nothing too serious. The controls are excellent. On foot its best to use 
 a keyboard and mouse. However when flying driving, the results with the keyboard can be a little 
 sub standard here a gamepad with dual analogs is a real advantage that comes in handy. The only 
 complaint i have with this game is its a bit too easy. Most of the missions that don't have time 
 limits just aren't that difficult, i can't tell weather its from a lack of rebalancing after it 
 went to a more accurate mouse&keyboard configuration or weather it was just easy to begin with. 
 But it would be better had this game had missions that were a bit tougher.
  All in all Vice City has to be considered to be an excellent title that any PC gamer should consider 
 for their library. The Action is a great deal of fun and it is a great leap forward over the at 
 times lifeless GTA 3. Its open ended design make it a single player game you'll be able to keep 
 coming back to again and again and is well worth playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Junkmandude
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 10, 2004 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Let me see, where do I begin. This game has awesome 80's hits combined with the Miami Vice/Scarface 
 feel to it. You can simply do all of the many missions, side missions and objectives provided in 
 the game or you can just go for a cruise and just check out all that this living and breathing 
 city has to offer. If you do manage to complete the game with a 100% then you will be greatly rewarded 
 (no spoilers here) . You play as Tommy Vercetti who has just got out of the joint for doing time 
 for the mob. You are sent to do an easy job in Vice City and get a foot hold established when everything 
 goes wrong. So now with nothing to your name and the mob breathing down your back you have to make 
 a name for yourself and get the respect. This game is rather violent so I do not recommend this 
 game to children, but for teens and adults this game will provide you with hours of fun. After 
 you finish the game there are plenty of opportunities to create your own mini games that you can 
 challenge your friends with. Look to the future for the next GTA series coming out: GTA San Andreas. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metron4
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 9, 2004 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Much like the soundtrack of the previous GTA game, 'Vice City' pays much deference to the film 
 Scarface (1983) , as well as a certain 80s cop show set in Miami. With so much to see and do there 
 is no question that Rockstars masterpiece will become the stuff of gaming legend.
  
  * Gameplay: Story-driven and side missions, street racing, stunts, secrets, thrills and spills 
 galore! Realistic vehicle physics, too.
  
  * Graphics: An incredibly detailed game world, replete with a setting and rising sun. Nice highlights 
 off the cars.
  
  * Sound: Features a rockin 80s soundtrack and scripted radio programming fans have come to love. 
 Sound effects were only so-so.
  
  * Value: Hours and hours of replayability. Just an insane amount of cool stuff to do.
  
  * 
 Tilt: I played it for over six months straight! Loved GTA III as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 25, 2004 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Great story, the character is awesome!. It's fun just to drive around the city and shoot people, steal 
 things, jump jumps, it's awesome. and with mods like Multi Theft Auto (online) it really makes 
 the game fun to play. My only problem with the game, is the graphics are dated, yes they might 
 have looked good on PS2, but for computer they could have been so much better!. The music is awesome, 
 and you can put your own music in to play while your playing the game!. It's simply a real fun 
 game, but there are some glitches (of course) and the graphics are dated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rigges
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 11, 2004 8:21 am PT
Review:  Is there anything you cant do? These words come to mind when I think about Vice City. Not only 
 can you become the most powerful man in the city, owning multiple houses, clubs and so on, but 
 you can do just about anything. You want to fly a plane? A helicopter? You want to drive a car, 
 a truck, a bike? You want to be in a boat or just walk around aimlessly? YOU GOT IT!!! There is 
 nothing you cant do Having trouble with the ladies!?!?! Hell, you can do them to literally, 
 get a nice car, pick up a sparsely dressed young lady and find a quiet place to park, before you 
 know it youre feeling much better and the car suspension is taking the brunt of your troubles. 
 
  I guess the only fault with all GTA games I have is that the story is very lose, you basically 
 have a main idea, with a bunch of sub stories mixed in that have little connection to the main 
 idea, other than, yes, this guy has a house, and you want to own the city, so kill him! Or something 
 to that effect. Never the less, the gameplay and sheer enjoyment of being chased by mob, police 
 and even swat, is enough to keep you coming back, and this game is LONG, so youll have to keep 
 coming back if you want to finish it. Great game, and I know this isnt the last weve seen of 
 GTA.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imperialarc
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 1, 2004 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I think the whole novelty over this game has worn off on me. It is pretty much like GTAIII except 
 in a Miami type setting. Don't get me wrong, it is still fun to do all the fun things in a free 
 roaming environment but then I just found myself yawning. 
  
  The new weapons like the chainsaw are an awesome addition and I love instilling fear when I start 
 it up near a group of people on the streets. You character actually talks now and no longer suffer 
 from being a mute (something I did not mind from GTAIII) . The radio stations are still kicking 
 great tunes. The missions are good. Overall, good game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evarmy98x
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 3, 2004 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Cruising around Miami in a silk suit and boat shoes - this can't be beaten. Vice City is more or 
 less GTA3 with a new setting. Some exciting adventures, such as flying shotgun (or M60 in this 
 case) in a chopper buzzing Haitian gangsters, help make Vice City stand out. It's also neat to 
 be able to change clothes and 'purchase' various buildings in the city. If you're not offended 
 by the crude content, which is no worse than the average mob film, Vice City offers an fantastic 
 open-ended bad guy experience. Sometimes I wish the cops were a little smarter, but being able 
 to rampage a bit is what makes this a great escape. Speed control is the only outstanding issue 
 for Vice City on the PC. When driving your choice of velocity is either pedal-to-the-metal or full 
 stop. If you want to stay on the roads you'll have to either learn to make sharp, accurate turns 
 (which looks quite sweet) or get used to tapping the accelerator and then cruising. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nutDAVE3
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 9, 2004 6:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is addicting. Simple as that. There has never been a game I have put 200+ hours into 
 besides this, I just can't seem to put it down. After an incredible GTA III production by Rockstar 
 North, it seemed almost impossible for a compnay to reproduce such a work of art, let alone top 
 it. Well, Vice City does match GTA III, but not only that; it tops it. Throughout the game you 
 have are assigned to do various duties for a collection of different mob bosses. You make friends 
 and enemies throughout the game, and eventually have to battle the head boss in a firefight. This 
 is a game you don't want to miss, pick it up now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 17, 2004 5:56 am PT
Review:  This is a great example of how you take a great game and make it better. Grand Theft Auto: Vice 
 City is an excellent port of the PS2 version, and it stands out as one of the best games for the 
 PC in 2003. GTA: VC is a blast to play, and it has so much to do and so many challenges to try that 
 it takes a long, long time to wear itself out. 
  
  GTA3 had a huge, open, clockwork city that you could explore at your leisure and make your personal 
 playground. GTA: VC takes that formula and makes it better. GTA: VC is not nearly as frustrating 
 as GTA3. It's not easy either, but the missions always manage to stay fun, while keeping you on 
 your toes with a challenge.
  
  I love just exploring the city, especially with one of the helicopters. The helicopters are the 
 best addition to the game. The city looks beautiful from up above, and sometimes it's just fun 
 to fly around and look at it. Or, you can look for goodies that are hidden on rooftops. There is 
 a ton of content in the game, a lot of which you have to find by exploring. The game actually plays 
 a bit like an open-ended RPG if you want it to. 
  
  The storyline for the game is pretty good (I just wish that there had been more of it) . The game 
 advances the story with short cutscenes, but also in other clever ways, like cell phone calls from 
 friends and enemies alike. You really get a true feeling of becoming a major crime lord in the 
 game. One of the ways that you do this is by buying properties up. Lots of properties unlock more 
 sub-missions, and when you complete those sub-missions, you complete the asset and it starts to 
 generate income for you. For example, when you buy the nightclub, you go on a series of missions 
 that leads up to a climactic bank robbery.
  
  GTA: VC is overloaded with detail and every time you start it up you see or hear something new. 
 Whether it's a hidden package that you didn't find before, or a funny sound bite from a pedestrian. 
 The radio stations are one of the highlights of the game. Most of them, with a couple of exceptions, 
 seem very realistic. The talk radio station KCHAT is hilarious. It's hosted by an "Omigosh! Like 
 that is so cool!" girl who sounds like a total bimbo when she does all of her interviews. The voice 
 acting for the radio stations and the game's cut scnes is superb. 
  
  I wish that the game's draw distance had been greater. Often times you can see stuff pop up on 
 the horizon when you are in a plane or helicopter. Also, I wish that there had been more storyline 
 missions. The game's story just sort of suddenly ends. 
  
  In this era of the 10-hour action game, Grand Theft Auto: Vice City stands out as a rare gem. A 
 game that is fun, and where the fun lasts for a long, long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingFrizzy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 23, 2003 12:36 pm PT
Review:  We all know it, we all love it. Its Grand Theft Auto, the undisputed king of action games this 
 generation. Exactly one year ago today, the follow up to the smash hit Grand Theft Auto III was 
 released to stores, it instantly became the fastest selling game of all time, selling over 500,000 
 copies in the first day, and over 1 million within the next three. This game is Grand Theft Auto: 
 Vice City. The Grand Theft Auto franchise has become one of the most respected, and most coveted 
 by all gamers over the last two years, since the release of Grand Theft Auto III. The premise has 
 been hailed as one of the most innovative, and revolutionary games to ever be released. 
  
  When the success of Grand Theft Auto III had calmed down, which was many months after its release, 
 we heard news of a sequel, which was to be featured some time before the events of Grand Theft 
 Auto III and take place in South Florida, in a Miami type area. Grand Theft Auto: Vice City, which 
 I will refer to as GTAVC, obviously draws major influences from the movie Scarface, starring Al 
 Pacino. So, if you ever had the urge to feel like you were Tony Montana in Scarface, this is definitely 
 the place to do that. You start the game off as a young man, named Tommy Vercetti from Liberty 
 City, the setting of GTAIII, and you are sent to do some work in the growing and vivacious Vice 
 City. The story follows Tommy as he basically takes over Vice City. Now, if you played GTAIII you 
 know that the game had a great plot for the type of game it was, but what you need to know is that 
 Vice City totally buries GTAIII in the story department. GTAVC is almost like playing an interactive 
 movie in some senses. 
  
  
  The gameplay of GTAVC is quite incredible actually. If you have been left in the dark somehow, 
 and dont know how these games play, Ill fill you in a bit. The Grand Theft Auto games are very 
 open ended; you can basically do whatever you want. You want to steal a car? Go for it. You want 
 to steal a boat? Go for it. You want to kill a Grandma walking down the street? Go for it. You 
 want to pick up a hooker, charge her for her services, then kill her and get your money back? By 
 all means, go for it. In other words, if you didnt catch it already, you can really do just about 
 anything. The game features an auto-aim lock on type mode that enables you to target people so 
 you can shoot them easily. The best thing Vice City does to expand on what GTAIII did with this 
 is they enabled it so it automatically targets the most threatening enemy immediately, whether 
 thats a mob member, chef, Mexican, or police man. A great thing about the open endedness of GTAVC 
 is that you have a large world to explore. Liberty City was big, by all means, very big. But Vice 
 City is somewhere around twice the size. Vice City features real neighborhoods, with Artificial 
 Intelligence that will remember who you are, so if you stirred up too much trouble in their neighborhood, 
 they will hunt you down, and want to fight. There are many means of exploration throughout Vice 
 City, you have the option to walk and run, drive a car, motorcycle, helicopter, or boat. The walking 
 and running is the common way to get around small distances, you have a certain amount of stamina 
 that enables you to run for a certain amount of time, and the more you walk, the more stamina you 
 acquire throughout the game which enables you to run longer. The best way to travel around Vice 
 City is by means of motor transportation, whether thats a car, boat, helicopter, or motorcycle. 
 There are tons of cars to choose from in Vice City, some are better than others, and some are best 
 suited for certain things. The most popular addition to Vice City are the motorcycles, finally, 
 we get to play Grand Theft Auto while driving on a motorcycle! The motorcycle is a great way to 
 get around while youre in a chase, trying to kill another person or something like that. You are 
 able to shoot in front of you, and to left and right of you while driving on a motorcycle. This 
 is great if youre just in the mood to cause a little carnage, because its the fastest way to 
 kill, and the fastest way to escape. In Grand Theft Auto III we were able to use boats, but only 
 a little. In Grand Theft Auto Vice City, since we are surrounded by much more water gaping areas, 
 we are forced to travel by boat quite often. There are speed boats, house boats, and some other 
 type of boats that are quite fun to travel with. Another big addition to transportation in GTAVC 
 is the ability to fly a helicopter. There were so many times in GTAIII when I was on top of the 
 casino and I saw the Rockstar Games Helicopter sitting up there, and I wanted to bust into and 
 fly around Liberty City. This is great, not only did they add the ability to fly Helicopters, but 
 they also added the ability to store helicopters in a garage. Some newer gameplay features that 
 raise the bar in GTAVC is the prolonging of the already insane lifespan GTA already has. In Vice 
 City, you are able to buy various properties throughout the city, including houses, mansions, and 
 apartments. This is the best way to gain places to save throughout the city, and have a good place 
 to store some of your vehicles. Also, in addition to being able to buy places to reside, you are 
 also able to buy real business properties, including a movie production agency, ice cream store, 
 Taxi Company, amongst others. The way the actual campaign plays is mission based. Since the world 
 is so open ended, you are given the option to continue whenever you please. You always have jobs 
 to do for people, and you can do them at your own free will. Plus, as you buy properties, you also 
 get jobs to do at those places, to raise money. When the story advances, you acquire a mansion 
 that then becomes the Vercetti Estate. This is the first real money making property you get in 
 the game, after that you are then able to buy various properties and make money off of them. And 
 let me tell you, in Vice City, nothing is more important than money. 
  
  
  Another strong point of the game is its incredible soundtrack. Vice City is often said to have 
 the best licensed soundtrack of any game in history. It features a wonderful variety of songs that 
 were popular in the 1980s. And, you have many different radio stations to choose from so you dont 
 have to sit and listen to the ones you dont like. Such as, there is a hard rock station called 
 Vrock, which features groups like Motley Crue and Ozzy Osbourne, and there is a rap station called 
 Wyldeside that plays groups like Grandmaster Flash, and Run DMC. There is tons of variety throughout 
 the Vice City soundtrack. Also, there is a talk radio station that was especially scripted just 
 for the game, and it is actually quite creative, it features various ads, and programs throughout 
 its designated selection. Vice Citys soundtrack definitely has got it going on. 
  
  
  The graphics are the only drawback of the game, and in all honesty, for the Playstation 2, they 
 really arent that bad. All things considered, the character models are a little cheesy, and the 
 game has quite a lot of jagged edges. But considering the size of the game, it actually looks quite 
 good. There is a very impressive draw distance for you to see, and there are rain, and weather 
 effects that also add life to the game. Such as, while youre driving into the sun youll see a 
 large sun beam glare right into the screen. Or while its raining your car will have less grip 
 on the road, which can make you slip a bit. To be fair, the graphics are quite good given the circumstances 
 of the game, and the hardware it is on. 
  
  
  The replay value is basically perfect, I cant think of anything that should be changed, or anything 
 that is reasonable at least. The game will last you until you get bored of it, which will either 
 be fast if you dont like the style, or it will take you years. To this very day, I still play 
 Grand Theft Auto III, and Vice City, quite often. I have probably logged in around 1000 hours into 
 the two of them, and if that doesnt say something about the replay value, then I dont know what 
 will. 
  
  
  Overall, Grand Theft Auto: Vice City is an incredible experience that no one should miss out on, 
 and with the release of the Grand Theft Auto: Double Pack a year after Vice Citys release, no 
 one should miss out on it; the price is two for cheaper than the price of just Vice City. My score 
 is a 9.6, due to artistic merit, and technical achievements. Not only is this the best action game 
 on the Playstation 2, but it is also the best action game this generation, and not only that, I 
 think its the best action game, period.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarshipCoyote
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2003 9:11 am PT
Review:  Its hard to get a perfect score with a long time gamer like me. Vice City however is one of the 
 most fun games I have played in a long time. It's an awesome conbination of every driving game 
 I have played, some rpging and action stuff thrown in. Then add the excellent storyline, and graphics 
 and you have one awesome game. The collateral damage alone makes the games graphics amazing. If 
 you hit something it reacts as hit and damages, windows break, blood is spilt. Awesome and the 
 sense of humor of the devs is wonderful. This game is a most wanted addition to any gamer library. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btunderw
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 16, 2003 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto VC is a remake of the original version on Playstation 2 but with improved graphics. 
 You are Tommy Vercetti, just out of jail. Once again you're hired by your old boss Sonny Forelli 
 to make a drug deal in the glamorous Vice City. But all is not what it seems. Sonny loses everything. 
 The money. The coke. And almost his life. Now youre out to exact revenge on those who set you 
 up. Vice City has a good story line and one of the best non-linear modes ever made. Go rob a store. 
 Or shoot some pedestrians. Or steal a car. Or break into the military compound. Whatever. It also 
 incorporates a lot of choice within the mission-based storyline. For example, in one part of the 
 game, you can either chose to answer the cell phone you stole and take the mission the man tells 
 you to or go straight to another mission. But, once you take that mission from the other guy, you 
 won't be able to go back to the cell phone. Then, after you complete a couple missions, new mission 
 points open up. Should you go to Avery, or perhaps the general, or maybe the lawyer. It's all up 
 to you. You'll need a good graphics card to take full advantages of the new graphics such as the 
 spectacular sunsets on the shores and lighting effects. The game itself has some nifty features 
 too, such as the ability to put your own mp3 files into the game and make them your own radio station. 
 Also, if you find driving with the keyboard hard, you can use the mouse to steer. But, Vice City 
 has some frustrating features. The save point ability can only be used if you return to the save 
 point. So, instead of the ability to save from the pause menu, you have to return to your hotel 
 or bought buildings to save. In essence, if you forget to save, youre screwed. But, when you start 
 a mission, you can't save. Yah, it's evil. The steering for most cars is okay, but the motorcycles 
 are a bit hard to control. Once too often you'll be thrown ten feet from your motorcycle. What's 
 worse is seeing some loser pedestrian steal it. Police are easy to outrun, but be advised once 
 they get to your car door your busted unless by some miracle they fall off. Don't count on getting 
 the full six stars of penalty because its next to impossible, but its not a good thing to have 
 police, SWAT, FBI, undercover cops, and the military with their flatbed trucks, rhino tanks, and 
 no intention of taking you alive. Cheats for this game are numerous and should help those who get 
 caught by the police too often. The weapons are okay, but there is no cheat to get all the weapons 
 at the same time. Squeamish should look away from this title, blood, literally, floods out of the 
 neck when you take headshots with a sniper rifle. Using the minigun you could easily fill the sidewalks 
 with blood. The mature rating was well deserved, but hey, who pays attention to those anyways? 
 Forget what Joe Lieberman told you and take that money from your paper route and get to Gamespot.
 
  
  Aznmantse 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sword__fish
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 2, 2003 11:28 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games of all time. With the amazing story, excellent acting, great graphics 
 and authentic (and often hilarious) sound, it is hard to find a thing wrong with Vice City. 
  
  I do find that if you're driving really fast you can get "ahead" of the draw distance and it 
 will take a few seconds to "catch up" and fill in the bland streets with the true textures. This 
 is a minor fault considering all that is going on around you at the same time. 
  
  My favourite thing about this game is its replay value. Unbelievable! After playing the game and 
 beating it, and repeating, I've now gotten into modifying the game, which takes the game to a whole 
 new level. With various "mods" you can put real cars, buildings and weapons into the game. I have 
 been focussing on the car aspect, and have been "replacing" Vice City's cars with real-life cars 
 such as Vipers and Ferraris etc.
  
  GTA: Vice City is an amazing game and I would recommend it to any gamer looking for a good time 
 that has been proven to outlast my greatest expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GMLocutus
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 3, 2003 4:57 am PT
Review:  Great game, very uneven port.
  
  The concept and production values are excellent. Very enjoyable game from beginning to end. The 
 voice acting is fun, the cutscenes are hilarious, and I love the 80's music. Nevertheless, I have 
 to give it a low rating because the game is not adapted well for PC. 
  
  First, I play with a fairly high-end machine, but still have problems with frame rate and audio 
 all the time. The game stutters every time I select a new weapon or step into a new car. Whenever 
 smoke appears, the frame rate gets so low the game is unplayable. I have to quit, crank the resolution 
 way down and restart. Unfortunately, it happens in the middle of what would otherwise be one of 
 the best missions (the job) . A more tolerable decrease in framerate occurs whenever it rains. I 
 ended up playing the game at a much lower resolution than I should have had to because of this, 
 and it's a shame, because the graphics are pretty good.
  
  Some of the missions were frustratingly difficult or literally impossible (none in the main story 
 line, fortunately) . I think it is mostly because I was playing with keyboard and mouse. It has 
 to be easier to fly an airplane or ride a motorcycle up a really narrow ramp if you're using an 
 analog joystick. With a keyboard, you're basically turning hard left or hard right or driving straight 
 ahead. There's no fine control. I think the time limits for some of the races probably should have 
 been adjusted for the PC. Finally, a lot of the rampages (missions where you have to kill a certain 
 number of gang members within a time limit) were impossible because bad guys do not spawn fast 
 enough. Then again, while some of the missions were difficult, many were incredibly easy. I get 
 the impression that nobody ever playtested the PC version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matirola
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 26, 2003 8:28 am PT
Review:  Ahhhhh...
  
  Warm Sun, hot Bikes and cheap ... :D
  Sure, the missions are great, the soundtrack is as spectacular (if not more with all that killer 
 licensing) and the hype around the game is just plain astounding. But you know what really doest 
 it for me ? : darting down the city in my PCJ600, as fast as i can with some good ol' cheezy 80's 
 music...
  
  The game is more of a "SandBox" than a traditional linear quest game. The spectacular and detailed 
 city created by RockStar is what the game really is for me.
  
  Just taking your bike for races and unique jumps, while taking small breaks dismembering folks 
 who dented your newly aquired bike ( ! ) is just a blast.
  
  Im telling you, yeah you, get the game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimzeus
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 25, 2003 9:49 pm PT
Review:  It's great, but why the heck didn't they just make a mission pack for liberty? After all, it is 
 an ENTIRE city??? This games missions were lame, but it's no wonder. This city is incredible, but 
 that's where the focus went. Liberty City, if it had motorcycles and helis too, would have been 
 much more fun, because the missions were fairly believable and the objectives seemed to make some 
 sense.
  
  One thing that takes SERIOUS points away from this game.... Cops that miraculously appear out of 
 nowhere. That's LAME! It would seem much more realistic if there was some kind of response time 
 involved, some kind of "line of sight" system where they wouldn't ALWAYS know exactly where you 
 were. Oh, and why the heck didn't Tommy ever learn how to swim. Could have been an interesting 
 evasive manuver. Maybe he runs out of energy before he reaches the other islands. THINK fellas! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnny2smoke2
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 17, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  
  I'm changing my review status because i didn't play enough of it the first time and I obviously 
 incorrectly graded it... You've heard it all before and what everyone says is true: "THIS GAME ROCKS"
 
  
  as I just mentioned - I'm sure you've heard or at least played it all by now, no need to elaborate. 
 9.4 says it all :)
  
  Old Review :
  
  Great game.... But to give it a 9 or above, it needs to be further polished.
  
  This game is 
 great fun... but it does have some downsides. Although they say it isn't non-linear, there is absolutely 
 nothing to do but drive around and cause havoc when you aren't following the missions. You cannot 
 go into the buildings and explore... nor can you talk to anyone
  
  I have recommendations to make this game a perfect 10!!
  
  - Hire the programmers from Shenmue 
 II to the team to further the details of the environment. Imagine if you could actually interact 
 with every single person on the street or go into every-single building you see... It would be amazing!! 
 In Shenmue II you have these options, you can go into a hotel and actually go into all the rooms... sometimes 
 people will come to their door speak for a second... it's hila
  
  - Better script and plot... Not much here, it seems they just stole every mafia job that has happened 
 in the Sopranos and stuck it in here. Don't get me wrong, I love it... Just putting in my 2 cents
 
  
  - polished graphics. Enough of the clipping already, gheeze didn't GTAIII make enough on the ps2 
 to bump up the budget to make this games graphics... I don't know.... flawless?
  
  If you are wanting some serious fun and want a good laugh... definitely play this game... It is a 
 must play.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: perquak
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2003 2:34 am PT
Review:  This game is all 10's. I was in love with Mafia; Vice City takes that type of gaming experience 
 to the next level. The story is superb. The music and talk radio channel puts you back into the 
 80's with a smile from ear to ear. The graphics and maps are stellar. I hope it never ends.
  
  My only complaint lies with the Take Two website and not the game. The website says that Vice 
 City will not run on a secondary hard drive partition and must use the installation defaults. They 
 are wrong on both counts, at least on my system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henry4th
Rating: 2.7
Date: May 25, 2003 7:07 am PT
Review:  Game Play: This is the worst aspect of the game. (Make no mistake, I've no problem with shooting 
 police and so called "innocents".) It's a game many people love for its open ended structure. Yet 
 the open ended structure in this game means mindless stupidity and repitition. After you obtain 
 all the weapons, roam around the city in a car or on foot and starts shooting, you're see what 
 the game has to offer in about fifteen minutes. And all the rest of open endness just repeat what 
 I described to you. So it's a game for mindless mass, not for people who wants a game with varied 
 game play and are hard enough to require some actual brain work.
  
  Graphics: The graphics of this game is so sub-par that sometimes you'd think you are staring at 
 an three year old game (in the case of PS2, a two years old game) . The jarring of the city scape, 
 the muddy texture, and the incredibly bad animation of characters made you wonder who would think 
 it's looking nice. (Sega's Senmue II looks about the same as this game, if you shrink down the 
 character models.)
  
  Sound: Some standard affairs. Nothing exciting here. When you play the game, you see all the poeple 
 and cars around yet, yet you here very little. If someone close their eyes and liten to the game, 
 they would think the seeting is in a small country town insdead of a huge metropolis.
  
  The Value: the open ended structure may have some value to the mindless mass. But from a programmer's 
 point of view, the huge city is such an illusion that as soon as you see through it, you realize 
 the huge city is just a replica of very few basic objects. Yes, it's this type of the cheap repication 
 of basic objects that made the game feel like the same no matter which part of the city you are 
 in. All you can do in every part of city street are about the same. There's never a substantial 
 effort in the city map's design that can enhance the gameplay by providing more variety. The game 
 has this incredible cheap feeling in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bart666
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 24, 2003 6:39 am PT
Review:  Standing in the game shop looking for a game to buy usually takes a lot of deliberation, and if 
 you don't follow the games scene, actually making a decision can be tricky.
  
  But this is Vice City, part of the long-standing Grand Theft Auto series - it's hard to have not 
 heard of it. This game has it all, mostly - a great do-what-you-feel-like perspective that gives 
 you full control over virtual-living inside Vice.
  
  It is a world of neon lights, 80s music which just makes you think "I remember that", revealing 
 swimsuits and a hotbed of organised crime. It's LA Law, Miami Vice, Dallas and all those 80s dramas 
 rolled into one. This is flavour country.
  
  As for the game, playing Tommy Vercetti, fresh out from the slammer. Continuing the carjacking 
 layabout theme from the first ever GTA, you enter the world of corruption by murdering, stealing, 
 vandalising and destroying everything that gets in your way.
  
  You have good cause - losing millions of dollars and an important drug shipment to thieves is not 
 something your employer is going to be happy about. This isn't as straight-forward as asking for 
 the suitcases back - it is up to you to follow leads and eliminate or ma****ulate those that can 
 provide information to the whereabouts... and why shouldn't you make a few bucks on the way?
  
  Graphically the game is very Eighties stylised. There's nothing that detracts from the glorious 
 views that you are able to witness, from the dramatic sunrises and sunsets; the adverse weather 
 effects; the bright and disgusting lighting; the models of all the vehicles and buildings. There's 
 a lot of pink, though!
  
  Sonically, everyone talks about the music. You can enjoy and relive classes from Slayer, Iron Maiden 
 and Anthrax, Inxs, Bryan Adams, Michael Jackson... the list is endless. But it's not just the music 
 that sets the style: the engine noises from all the different vehicles are distinct, and some are 
 great through a subwoofer - crank up the bass! Pedestrians in the game say some really goofy things 
 though.
  
  GTA: VC certainly has a lot going for it, with many hours of game play behind it. The simple fact 
 of being able to run amok in the streets lets your imagination go wild - loading up the game for 
 15 minutes for a quick rampage can be most satisfying.
  
  The RRP of the game is 34.99, my pressing issue. Typical game price for the PC, but since Take 
 Two (publishers of GTA) knew this was going to sell like hot cakes 29.99 may have been more appropriate.
 
  
  Buy this now, you won't regret it - but don't hold up the game shop with an assault rifle.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: omfgbmxdude
Rating: 8
Date: May 24, 2003 5:34 am PT
Review:  If u have played GTA3, is it worth to play this one?
  
  Well my answer is no, unless u totally totally loved GTA3 and u still want more.
  The game is 
 basically the same that GTA3, but u have bikes, which i dont think its that fun to ride.
  
  I think the graphics are too PS2. Gosh if they were making it for pc, they could atleast make decent 
 graphics. Looks just like GTA3 with some bad light effects. They should have made it something 
 like Mafia... that would be sweet. Guess they are kinda lazy.
  
  The sound is generally good, but i really dig some of the 80's tunes. The radios are good again, 
 but the car sounds are not so good.
  
  The value depends. If u have played GTA3 its just more of the same, but its really hard to finish 
 this game 100%. The city is bigger which makes it last longer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TastyWand
Rating: 5
Date: May 22, 2003 8:23 pm PT
Review:  The quality of the graphics is seriously dated.
  Would of looked good 2/3 years ago, but this is clearly made for console+tv platfrom and is distinctly 
 unimpressive on the PC.
  
  The sound... well the radio station is a good idea, but 8 channels of 80s pop crap.... please! 
 
  
  Gameplay... some good openended stuff split up with the usual frustrating, poorly concieved missions.... control 
 a remote control helicoptor through stairwells? wtf?
  
  Okay, so it's big... theres some famous voices... it has the cool radio idea, but while it was new 
 and interesting 3 years ago.... it's just plain tedious now.
  
  ... and under no cir****stances should a game be based in the 80s. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew1969
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 20, 2003 11:18 am PT
Review:  This is a great follow up to GTA III. The motorcycles, airplane, and helicopter add great new ways 
 to see the city. The storyline is engaging and the gameplay is lots of fun. Certainly earns it's 
 "M" (Mature) rating. I have to add, that I think the fact that GAMESPOT has not yet reviewed this 
 game (out for over a week) is PATHETIC! I am almost finished with the game, and playing video games 
 is not MY FULL TIME JOB. I am seriously question the value of my GAMESPOT COMPLETE MEMBERSHIP. 
 Shame on you Gamespot. Kudos to you Rockstar Games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clever_handle
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 19, 2003 8:53 am PT
Review:  GTA: VC for the PC - Is it worth the cost?
  
  Id like to start by saying that the GTA series has been my favorite gaming series since GTA2 came 
 out. Ive played every version of GTA, including the London expansion and the PlayStation versions. 
 I one-hundred-percented Vice City twice on the PS2, and so when the PC version came out, I wasnt 
 sure: could I get through it again? To save you the suspense, yes I could. There were very few 
 changes to the game, although in my mind, three changes make the PC version worth the price of 
 admission by themselves. 
  MP3 Radio gets my vote for best change. Its simply more fun to cruise around in the Cheetah or 
 Infernus with the Miami Vice theme playing in the background. Going on a crime spree while blasting 
 Tiffany, Martika, and Debbie Gibson tunes is also wildly amusing (at least to me) . I think its 
 a terrific feature, and I would like to see it become standard equipment in the GTA series, like 
 police bribes, and the Pay-n-Spray. Of course, you *must* use only legal, licensed MP3s. :) The 
 second change is really something that Rockstar wasnt able to put into the console versions of 
 Vice City: better graphics and more resolutions to choose from. The environment is really sweet 
 at 1280x1024x32bit color. The third change is again something Rockstar wasnt able to do in the 
 console version: bugs that annoyed the heck out of me on the PS2 were absent on the PC. For example, 
 the bug that prevented you from being able to pick up Cuban gang clothes after you beat the Haitian 
 funeral mission has been exterminated. Likewise, the glitch that caused your saved game to become 
 corrupted randomly when saving at Cherry Poppers ice cream place is apparently fixed, as well. 
 At least, my very unscientific method of saving the same game to all 8 slots there every now and 
 then produced no corrupt game saves. I also noticed that a small bug that was *extremely* annoying 
 to me was removed. This one involved the Vercetti mission Cop Land. Every time I tried to start 
 that mission, the garage door underneath would open, the mission would start, and whatever cars 
 were in the garage would be gone. Not a crippling bug, by any means, but after losing a few special 
 cars, and having to back up a few saves, and after spending 30 minutes figuring out what the heck 
 was happening I was very unhappy with that particular bug. 
  Now, after pointing out the good, I unfortunately must offer a few nits for the picking.
  First 
 of all: it seems that Rockstar is on a strict one bug fixed, one bug introduced plan. 
  I have noticed several bugs/changes that are, to me, glaring. There is nothing that makes the game 
 unplayable, and really nothing beyond annoyances, but they are worth commenting on. Most glaring, 
 to me, is that occasionally textures will not be drawn, causing all the buildings to look like 
 dull grey cubes. The road appears as only a uniform dull grey line, and some objects are not visible 
 at all (such as the columns on the Malibu or the arch over the entrance to the movie studio) . This 
 effect lasts anywhere from 1 second to 1 minute before the textures suddenly appear. While it can 
 be fun to watch cars drive above the roadway and to be able to see through walls and such, it 
 is very distracting, and can be *very* annoying when youre in the middle of a mission, especially 
 a race. Bridges in the PC version are flaky compared to their console counterparts. I had to redo 
 the chase about 5 times, because the thiefs dune buggy would become stuck leaving the bridge, 
 entering Prawn Island. There he would sit, halfway in the ground, back tires spinning uselessly. 
 I tried a variety of things to correct this glitch, but I ended up killing the thief every time. 
 Finally, I had an idea: Id pass him on the bridge, and park where he gets stuck, and hed go around 
 me. Luckily, it worked. Once Id beaten that mission, I tried it again, just for fun, and this 
 time he did not get stuck. I had the same problem on the funeral home mission, but since youre 
 *supposed* to kill the guy in that car, it actually worked out well. Ive also seen several cars 
 stuck in various bridges while Im just out driving around. Also, for some reason, there is always 
 a police enforcer stuck in the sidewalk outside the bank in little Havana. You can blow it up without 
 getting a wanted level, but the next time you drive by, there it is again. I dont know if any 
 of these bugs are unique to my setup, but I doubt it. 
  In conclusion, I would recommend the PC version of this game to anyone who doesnt already have 
 this game, and would also recommend it to people who really enjoyed the console version. If you 
 already have the console version and you arent interested in the new features, I wouldnt recommend 
 spending the money for the PC version.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgdsn
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 17, 2003 2:39 am PT
Review:  I knew something like this would happen. I played GTA3 to the death, and I can't stand it anymore, 
 but thats the way most people felt, and yet vice city promised something new. let me just say this:
 
  
  vice city has a whole lot to offer. the story is engrossing, the character voices and animations 
 are top notch... i mean... the acting not only qualifies to be in a movie, but a damn good one 
 id love to see. the bikes are very fun. What i hate about this game is that the missions are too 
 damn hard... not hard enough to beat... but hard enough that you will not get them in one try.
 
  
  you may count on having to redo the ame missions tens of times, each time having to run to ammunation 
 to stock up on guns and a vest. its so damn tiring. its sad cuz theis game has so much to offer, 
 and yet its such a chore to play. its like the gameplay is suffering you have to go through to 
 see more of the story... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ggoldsmith
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 16, 2003 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Just like the original, this game is just wonderful. And although Vice City is essentially the 
 same game as GTA III, there are plenty of interesting changes. One really nice improvement is that 
 driving time, when you have to do a mission over, is cut out because a taxi will be available at 
 police stations and hospitals when you get busted or wasted. Just get in, and the driver will ferry 
 you to the mission starting point for quick retry. And wow, the graphics are really great. Sure, 
 it's the same technology, but the colors of 1980's Miami give Vice City a whole new look, while 
 animations seem even more dynamic and fluid. Also, unlike its predecessor, I had no trouble enabling 
 anti-aliasing at little or no expense in frame rate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevlinC
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 16, 2006 1:08 am PT
Review:  After months of waiting, Vice City is finally available for the PC, and it's been worth the wait. 
 Everything that made GTA3 one of the best games of 2001 is in place (hardly surprising, considering 
 this is essentially just a modification of the original) with enough new features to make the hardened 
 fans rush out and buy it as soon as it hits the streets.
  
  Obviously, because of it's similarity to GTA3, there isn't much new to be said about this latest 
 release. The biggest change has to be that the main character is now a person with a name, speech 
 and attitude. Some might say this is a drawback (as in GTA3 you could create your own backstory 
 or snide remarks, if so inclined) but personally I think it's a massive improvement.
  
  Also included are motorbikes which I never got on with in GTA or GTA2, but absolutely adore in 
 this one. Zipping across the city has never been so easy.
  
  Just like GTA3, you become immersed in this game. It's a living, breathing city and probably the 
 only computer game where just driving around and watching the sun set can be as rewarding as completing 
 a mission.
  
  However, it does have it's slight flaws - the graphics are now VERY dated. I'm sure this is the 
 trade-off made to have all parts of the city ticking over at the same time without your computer 
 grinding to a halt, but when compared with the photo-realism of - for example - Mafia, there's 
 just no contest.
  
  Some of the NPC (non-player character) models are just.. wrong. The bikini-clad girls especially 
 just look slightly off. As you can see, these are all very minor gripes at what is an enthralling, 
 exciting game that continues the proud tradition of GTA in being hailed as a masterpiece. At this 
 rate, Rockstar could make GTA4 lousy as hell and it would still be universally adored. Thankfully, 
 they're a company that care about their franchise, and I suspect we'll be seeing new installments 
 of the series for some time to come. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
