-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Grand Theft Auto III
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/grandtheftauto3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 28, 2002
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.3
Critic Score: 9.3, 43 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 5,932 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Rockstar Games
Developer: DMA Design
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date:     May 20, 2002 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Grand Theft Auto III is a faithful port of a truly exceptional game. 

 Since its release last October for the PlayStation 2, Grand Theft Auto III has become one of the 
 most popular games ever made. Far superior to its predecessors, GTAIII let you go on a free-form 
 crime spree in a surprisingly lifelike city. It was so successful that, even amidst stiff competition 
 from games such as Halo and Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 3, it earned GameSpot's Video Game of the Year 
 award, both from GameSpot's editors and its readers alike -- and the accolades didn't stop there. 
 Now, publisher Rockstar Games has finally released a version for the PC. And while it has somewhat 
 steep hardware requirements and doesn't offer any significant new content, it doesn't manage to 
 screw anything up either. Six months after its initial release and in a relatively unchanged form, 
 Grand Theft Auto III still remains a great, great game.           Grand Theft Auto III for PC is 
 a faithful port of the PS2 original.    

 The basic appeal of GTAIII is the ageless fascination with using firecrackers to blow up model cars, 
 staging horrific toy-train wrecks, and lighting plastic army men on fire. It sets you down in the 
 middle of a detailed clockwork world, presents you with a physics model and a wide variety of interesting 
 objects to interact with, and then gives you the freedom to smash them into each other and enjoy 
 the resulting mayhem. Within this metasandbox mode, you're also presented with a series of missions, 
 which tell the ongoing story of your life of crime among the game's cast of unsavory characters. 
   

  While these 73 missions provide a proper plot and a beginning, middle, and end to the game, you 
 can attempt them at your leisure. In between the missions, you're free to do whatever you want, 
 either on foot or in any number of vehicles, most of which you can relinquish from their owners 
 at the touch of a button. Other than the always satisfying manufacture of general chaos, there 
 are plenty of more-structured tasks to undertake. For instance, if you steal a cab, you can begin 
 accepting fares in what amounts to a nearly complete re-creation of Crazy Taxi. Police cars, fire 
 trucks, and ambulances also each have timed subgames associated with them. In addition, there are 
 20 mass-destruction challenges (called "rampages") , 100 hidden packages to find, and 20 cinematic 
 superjumps hidden throughout the city. Completing these side tasks grants you various bonuses, 
 ranging from access to extra weapons to cash bonuses.   

  The real star of the game, however, is the environment itself -- a corrupt municipality called Liberty 
 City. Scotland-based developer DMA Design (recently renamed Rockstar North) has done an amazing 
 job of creating a living city dense with detail. The streets are busy with both pedestrian and 
 vehicle traffic. Time passes, the sun rises and sets, and different weather patterns move in and 
 out. And unlike in most games, you can actually drive to the skyscrapers on the horizon several 
 miles away. What's more amazing is that the huge city is presented as a virtually seamless world. 
 There is a short one-to-two-second loading time (down from the PlayStation 2's five to seven seconds) 
 between the city's three districts, but otherwise the only breaks for loading occur momentarily 
 before mission cutscenes.           You're free to do just about anything in the game's lawless 
 land.    

 The PC version permits you to play the game in resolutions as high as 1600x1200, a huge leap over 
 the relatively low-res PlayStation 2 version. In addition, the textures have been reworked and 
 are now much sharper. Details, like some store signs, that were blurry on the PS2 are now clear 
 enough to read easily. The polygon counts, on the other hand, are unchanged. The higher resolution 
 makes the simple geometry stand out, especially on the character models. However, the impressive 
 view distance and general amount of activity on the screen counter the somewhat chunky models. 
 Pop-up is a more serious problem. The "bubble" in which active objects in the world exist ends 
 long before the horizon does. On a long stretch of straight road, vehicles and people simply materialize 
 in the distance. On the low-res, fuzzier PS2 version, this effect was much less noticeable. It 
 would have been nice if the object draw distance had been made adjustable, but it's more of a minor 
 visual distraction than something that actively interferes with gameplay.   

  It's worth noting that the enhanced graphics come at a price. We tested the game on the "recommended" 
 system -- a 700Mhz CPU with 128MB of RAM and a 32MB graphics card -- and were required to turn every 
 detail to its lowest setting to make the game playable. And even then, it stuttered enough that 
 the PS2 version seemed like the better alternative. It's hard to imagine that Grand Theft Auto 
 III would run at all on the so-called minimum specs. Fortunately, when we tested the game on a 
 higher-end system, with a newer graphics card and a faster processor, we experienced significantly 
 better results.            Dozens of different missions will test your skills and advance the 
 plot.    

 Sound remains excellent. For character voices, Rockstar managed to recruit some well-known actors, 
 including Joe Pantoliano, Michael Madsen, Kyle McLachlan, and Robert Loggia. The nine radio stations 
 from the original (which you'll hear playing when you hop inside a vehicle) are all intact. They 
 feature a mix of music, from rap to classical, and even include a legitimately funny talk radio 
 station. An option has been added to program a 10th station with your own MP3s.   

  The open-ended play style of Grand Theft Auto III creates a lot of amazing, unscripted moments. 
 The lack of any instant-replay feature to capture these scenes was one of the only major missteps 
 of the PS2 version. Fortunately, a replay option has been added to the PC port. Unfortunately, 
 it's not very good. Pressing F1 at any time starts a replay of the last 30 seconds of gameplay. 
 However, no camera controls -- other than a free look around your position -- are available during 
 the replay, nor are there any video controls, such as fast forward, rewind, pause, or frame advance. 
 What's more, the replays are often more of a close approximation of what happened rather than a 
 strict re-creation. For instance, the timing of events, like a car bursting into flames and exploding, 
 may differ from the actual incident to the replay. You can save a replay by hitting F2, but you 
 can save only one replay at a time, because each save simply overwrites the last one. You can Alt-Tab 
 out of the game and make a backup of the file, but that's not exactly an elegant implementation. 
 The replay system is so absurdly bare-boned that it feels like more of a hastily thrown together 
 afterthought than a significant additional feature.           Grand Theft Auto III is a unique, 
 immensely enjoyable action game.    

 However, one excellent new feature of the PC port makes up for the botched replay system: mouselook. 
 The ability to freely look around improves every aspect on the on-foot controls. General exploration 
 is easier, and aiming is no longer a chore. The PS2 version implemented an auto-target lock-on 
 system to compensate for the lack of fine mouse control. On the PC, enabling mouselook disables 
 the auto-target system. But even though this means you can no longer run in one direction while 
 firing back over your shoulder, it's no great loss when compared with the benefits of mouselook. 
 If you can't live without the lock-on feature, you still have the option to switch the control 
 scheme back to "classic" mode, which reenables it. No support of steering-wheel controllers is 
 included, though it's hard to imagine switching between the steering wheel and the keyboard as 
 often as would be required while playing that way.   

  Judged solely as an enhanced port, Grand Theft Auto III is a little lacking. Other than the addition 
 of mouselook -- whose beneficial impact on gameplay cannot be understated -- nothing much has been 
 added. There's no new content, the replay feature is pretty bad, and by improving just some of 
 the graphical elements, the overall visual effect has arguably gotten worse. But -- and this is a 
 big "but" -- GTAIII is a faithful port of a truly exceptional game. As long as you have a PC an order 
 of magnitude greater than publisher's recommended specs, then you'll find in Grand Theft Auto III 
 one of the most inventive and satisfying action games of all time.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (124 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: BanjoMumbo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 5:51 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 3 is one of those games where there's a good story, good gameplay, good controls, 
 good characters, good voice acting, etc. It has alot to boast. It starts out with a good cutscene 
 starting with Catalina shooting your silent protagonist "Claude Speed/Fido". You end up with your 
 friend in a truck off to a penetenchary until some Cartel members destroy the bridge. You then 
 escape and go to a hideout in Portland. The game starts off with a mission, and then you're off 
 to free-roaming without even bothering to do anymore missions. The game was very good and underrated. 
 The graphics are excellent, even for PS2. The game has a huge free-roaming area, and it has tons 
 of things to do and see. It's a massive improvement over the PS1 predecessors. It is a very good 
 game, the story is great, and overall it's a very fun experience for gamers everywhere. It's a 
 must have for any PS2, Xbox, PC owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lahdeedah
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 1, 2009 2:06 am PT
Review:  Grand theft auto 3 - It's an okay game. It's nothing really that special. There are better games 
 at the time.
  
  GTA3's gameplay is basically, missions (not that fun) , hookers, killing people, and that's about 
 it. Sounds fun, but it gets old really, really, really fast. When you pick up a hooker it doesn't 
 really look badda big badda boom. You just get extra health. They're way to many cheats. It gets 
 repetitive.
  
  The graphics are okay for the time. They were even above average you can say. Some peoples faces 
 are extremely fat. Especially the ones you meet during missions. Multiplayer - There is a multiplayer 
 mod, but it really isn't that fun in my opinion.
  
  Overall, Grand Theft Auto 3 isn't worth it at all, but it's fun. Well, it's worth a rent if you 
 have a PS2. There is a wide variety of weapons, but they suck. They all get boring. If you shoot 
 your gun everybody screams even if there is nobody in sight. It's also very unrealistic when you 
 shoot at a car window, it doesn't even break. Well, that's about it I guess. I added more at the 
 end, because it just all came to me. Thanks for reading blah blah blah fishy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gokunami
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Less talk and more action. Play the game yourself to see what I'm about to tell you. Don't worry 
 about the others before this one because this one is the one to play. This game should be called 
 Grand Theft because you're really stealing everything. But it's called Grand Theft Auto cause you'll 
 be stealing cars to get around. Unless you like running for the exercise. You get hooked up with 
 a gig from the mob. You start off doing little jobs until they graduate you to bigger jobs. If 
 you're a business man like me you'll be looking for job on the side for extra cash. The story makes 
 the game play great. So enjoy snipping from rooftops, blowing up ships and 20 cop car chase on 
 your tail. This is just the beginning of the show. You get to setup the different cartels against 
 each other as you maneuver from territory to territory. First you must complete certain tasks in 
 order to get from one city to another. Once this happens you may want to learn the streets. This 
 is so you can dodge cops, gangs and hookers after you. The ending was just as hot as the beginning 
 so do as I said. Play for yourself and see what I was telling you about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shirahen
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  The future of virtual worlds will always trace itself back to Grand Theft Auto 3. This is not just 
 a game but an iconic piece of virtual world history. We are only at the very beginning of what 
 is to become of virtual worlds. What are the next biggest steps?
  
  To detail the environment, 4-d headsets, Sensory gloves, a whole world to explore, holidays (Total 
 Recall) , virtual friends, relationships, guidance, body suits. 
  
  We all know that GTA is the biggest all time seller in games so can you imagine what it will be 
 like in the future. GTA4 again has shown the amazing step forward that they have achieved in making 
 it a more natural virtual world in which you can do what ever you please. 
  
  The history of virtual worlds will always come back to GTA 3 as the first step. So if you have 
 a copy of this getting old by now, treasure it and let your kids know, and then pass it on, through 
 the generations. It doesn't mean much now, but in the future you might be the coolest granddad 
 around!
  
  Remember GTA3 is only 6 years old! written 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pork_Lord
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 5, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Originally posted on http://spacemeat. com. au and http://gamerau. com
  
  Grand Theft Auto III is one of the greatest and most impactive video games in the industry to date. 
 Fortunately my job here is to explain how and why this came about, as I know arguing otherwise 
 would be most futile and pointless.
  
  Unbeknownst to many, the 'III' in the title does indeed signify the existence of two predecessors. 
 The original GTA titles still sported buckets of violence, gangsters, action and humor but with 
 the top-down 2D engine of old, ambitious elements such as gun based gameplay and precise hairpin 
 driving were vastly hindered by the technology on offer. Shooting from a birds eye perspective 
 was terribly difficult, and cruising at high speeds can be often run short by a sudden wall, of 
 which vision was impeded due to the fact that your view just simply couldn't extend that far.
 
  
  This doesn't make the first two Grand Theft Auto games bad. Not at all. Just limited. It wasn't 
 until the transition to 3D could Rockstar truly begin to introduce elements in GTA that, coupled 
 with the charm of the series, built a game that stood itself up and told other games how to improve.
 
  
  It was all about improvement. Rockstar had already established a repertoire of creative genius 
 sprouting forth wonderful writing and characters, the dismissive attitude towards the instant uproar 
 the violence of GTA caused in the media proving another testament to Rockstar's continual attention 
 to quality and improvement, and this is how it all started.
  
  A lot of my fondness towards GTA III stems from a similar vibe Coxster expresses in his opinions 
 of Vice City, the aesthetical values in GTA III are most memorable, established by a wide array 
 of unique content. Everything in GTA III works well together, it's stylized blend of audio and 
 visual integration to create a true feel to the city. Some of my most fond and significant personal 
 gaming memories are with GTA III.
  
  The concept behind GTA III is a story of deceit and betrayal, with the subsequent uprising of our 
 voiceless and nameless anti-hero spacing out a great plot filled with quirky characters and rewarding 
 progression. As the player continues the story, newer weapons and areas of the city will be opened, 
 assuring continual rewards as our player rises from a nameless nobody to a Yakuza associate armed 
 to the teeth and beyond in a quest for ultimate vengeance.
  
  Spending a Sunday cruising through the gritty underbelly of Liberty City to the sounds of RISE 
 FM, watching the Yakuza and the Mafia gang war is certainly a mesmerizing experience. Driving around 
 aimlessly was never a bore or chore, which is fortunate when appropriated with GTA III's open sand-box 
 style missions. The large variety of cars and weapons are also more than suitable amongst the even 
 larger city and hordes of civilians.
  
  Several re-occurring characters of the series are introduced, such as Liberty City Stories main 
 protagonist, Toni Cipriani; or the demolitions expert, 8-Ball. I love the gangs involved, from 
 the respectful Yakuza and their speedy Stingers, or the rambunctious Triad's and their fish marketing 
 ways (Spank, anyone?) .
  
  The main revelation for GTA III is the improvement of technical gameplay elements to create a much 
 more solid and serious experience. Everything could suddenly be done with so much more skill in 
 GTA III it became a blend of genres none could define. The first games were like a mash of basic 
 elements across a few game styles. Shooting, driving, and erm, shooting, put together it was fun. 
 With GTA III, suddenly each gameplay element became so much more controllable, sophisticated and 
 apparent that it blended several genres together. The driving side of GTA was so advanced at the 
 time that it surpassed other racing games alone with it's combination of speed, realistic city 
 driving and large array of vehicles. Then factor what else this game has to enjoy as a shooter 
 and adventure and you're left with a valuable package like no other.
  
  The third person perspective did wonders for the gunplay in GTA III. Suddenly long killing spree 
 rampages were quite manageable with a controllable aiming reticule. Now I can lock onto enemies 
 (see - civilians) as well as take cover, jump etc.
  
  The radio stations are numerous and lengthy, who can forget the lovable tramp Lazlow and his Chatterbox 
 talk back radio station? It's not just the radio stations either, overall the audio package in 
 Grand Theft Auto III is impeccable. The dialogue is brilliant, with convincing voice acting supporting 
 memorable characters.
  
  Grand Theft Auto III just generally took everything great from the first two titles and pushed 
 it into a whole new 3D world. A tad ambitious on paper, when truly considered it becomes apparent 
 how easily Rockstar could have really screwed this one up and bit off more than they could chew, 
 which can rarely prove true. It's not a perfect package, with an ambitious engine suffering minor 
 clipping, rendering and mobility issues but these are so minor when compared to the rest of the 
 game that it's near unnoticeable.
  
  GTA III was, is, and will always be a brilliant game. It defined an era, ushered in the new and 
 pushed technology to all new limits. It showed other developers that with the proper time and care 
 projects like GTA really can be pulled off. It's all about getting the balls to make something 
 like this, and who else but Rockstar? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gumeh
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 25, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  =preview=
  
  many people that the game will have a lot of fans, and many people play it and feel enjoy, include 
 me.
  
  =game play=
  
  this game will give u a freedom to play, u can do anything scuh as run, drive many type of vehicles, 
 steal money, upgrade ur cars, and many things u can do in this game. Grand theft auto III have 
 a 73 mission u must finished. u will find a objetive, u will meet someone who will give u a job, 
 and if u finished the job u will save some cash money. but if not finished it will repeat from 
 the beginning, u must finish the mission to get another mission, and beside that u have freedom 
 to play and do anything. nice mvp in each mission, will interest u, and if u bring about that u 
 can skip it.
  
  =graphics=
  
  a good environment details, but too dark, and blackish. i cannot see the different on night or 
 morning. but still have a good performance. u can choose camera view, and almost iam not find any 
 bug. very very good enough. and Grand theft auto III can run with computer specs : 700 MHZ processor 
 or better, 128 MB RAM or better, with 32 MB video card. 
  
  =all performance=
  
  so good and still good, Grand Theft Auto always release a good series. and have a good selling 
 and applause from the fans of this game, or a new player. so just fun the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taloskai
Rating: 9
Date: May 5, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to Liberty City, a place of crime and drugs. It even starts with a crime, one that you're 
 trying to pull off. You and your girlfriend and trying to do a bank job but she shoots you and 
 leaves you for the blame along with your friend 8-ball. Something happens, you escape and the city 
 is for the taking.
  
  The mafia, yakuza and others want in on you, you have to follow their orders to get to the top 
 and get some revenge.
  
  The graphics were sup-par, even back when it was made. The character is a mute, some parts of the 
 story are predicable, compared to the other GTAs, it doesn't feel good enough, it had save bugs 
 but it's still one of the most revolutionary games yet.
  
  The fact that it was the first game to introduce 3D graphics to a sandbox type of game was amazing. 
 The city felt real and just the sheer size and AI made it worth mentioning. The OTHER characters 
 were well introduced and likable and it was just great fun shooting others a couple of times in 
 the head.
  
  The radio had some of the greatest hits and it also had hilariaus talkshows. I don't think anyone 
 will forget Lazlo and Chatterbox for a long time to come.
  
  Overall, it may not be as great now but it's still a fine game to play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  GTA III, a spark of originality and genuis... Loved by gamers, hated by a parent nation.
  
  GTA III today is still remarkable for its originality and style of gameplay and due to the fact 
 its this game that did make the whole GTA franchise huge. 
  It had been 4 years since the original realease of the first GTA which for me is still considered 
 as a gaming favourite and i still play it today. Gaming technology had suddenly massively soared 
 within four years creating the xbox and the PS2 and more powerful PC's. 
  
  The games realease was much like the hype of this years biggest game GTA IV which is going to be 
 one of Rockstars biggest milestones yet. 
  
  GTA III inspired developers to start this new sandbox trend which seems to be the case for most 
 games we play today.
  
  GTA III starred voices of well known actors even Michael Madsen did the voice for a character in 
 game. The graphics were good and the gameplay was simply awesome.
  At the time people had never played games like this in this graphical wonder. The power to do what 
 you wanted in games was overwhelming for some and many became obsessed with the game titles.
  
  The soundtrack is mostly of Rockstars own tunes, wether there funny or just cool GTA is renowned 
 for its excellent soundtrack. Full aiming and 3rd person shooting was now part of GTA III and it 
 was a big graphical step forward. 
  The further two games in the GTA Trilogy used the same graphics in its games and since GTA III 
 nothing really changed apart from the location, story and new features were added. 
  Still the most popular GTA game to date is San Andreas (Soon to be of course GTA IV) which was 
 the end of an amazing trilogy... but whats next after GTA IV????
  
  Amazing game simply reveloutionary... Enough controversy to make it epic... enough style to make 
 it cool... enough said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto III is the third (actually the fourth) installment in the Grand Theft Auto series. It 
 is the very first one to have fully 3D graphics. It is also the first one that has a storyline. The 
 graphics are very well done for it's time of release and it still looks pretty good by todays standards. The 
 story is good and catchy, the sound is very well done featuring tons of voice acting for all of 
 the characters in the game except the main character which you play as, this is quite odd. There 
 are many radio stations in the game featuring very good music and DJ-commentary. The sound in the 
 game is brilliant. The game-play is also revolutionary because of the third person perspective used 
 which has never been used before for a game of this sort. Overall the game is unbelievable and the 
 fact that you can do everything you did in the previous games from the series, and this time from 
 third person perspective, is incredible. This is one of those games which you must play and which 
 will take you about 30 hours to complete and it could even last more than 100 hours if you do the 
 side missions to. It is a must have!!!
  
  My Score 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: satorn
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  
  Quick - what was the top-selling videogame of 2001? Metal Gear Solid 2? Halo? The Sims? Gran Turismo 
 3? Some hunting game that moved a million units at Wal-Mart?
  
  That distinction actually belonged to a game that, had you told us 6 months earlier, probably would 
 have caused us equal amounts of laughter and disbelief: Grand Theft Auto III. Not only was it the 
 gamers' favorite, it was equally hailed as a groundbreaking title by industry insiders, developers 
 and critics alike, including winning GameSpy's overall Game of the Year award for 2001.
  
  But although the Grand Theft Auto series started out as a PC franchise, the third installment was 
 exclusive to the PlayStation 2, leaving a large number of PC fans out in the cold  until now. 
 We're happy to report that the PC version is as faithful to the original as you could hope; in 
 some ways, it's even better.
  
  (Note: if you're already familiar with GTA3 on the PS2, you may want to jump right to page 2 for 
 PC-specific stuff. If not -- keep reading.)
  
  Welcome to Liberty City  Again
  
  For those new in town, Grand Theft Auto III places you as a recently escaped criminal in the fictional 
 "Liberty City" -- a bustling metropolis teeming with organized crime, gang wars and corrupt police. 
 In other words  your kind of town. After you're the unwitting beneficiary of a daring attack on 
 a prison transfer (which makes up the opening cinematic) , you find a hideout in Liberty City and 
 begin to climb the underworld ladder, taking on various odd jobs for local crime figures.
  
  Almost all of these missions require you to steal a car and race around the city in some manner, 
 but there's a great deal of variety to your tasks. You'll make cash pickups and escort VIPs; you'll 
 booby-trap enemy cars and take on demolition jobs; you'll perform drive-by shootings, assassinations, 
 and you'll often have to leave the relatively safe confines of your car and engage in weapons combat 
 as well. Some missions require speedy cars; others require trucks capable of ramming enemies off 
 the road or blasting through police barricades. There's no shortage of vehicles to choose from 
 -- there's a number of "standard" sedans, SUVs, sports cars, trucks, buses and other vehicles, 
 each with their own subtleties in speed and handling.
  
  As you pull these jobs, you'll often attract police attention, represented by a series of stars 
 in the upper right of the screen. Pull a carjacking in front of a police station and you might 
 get one star, which will often fade away after a few moments. Shoot a few cops, blow up a few police 
 cars and you'll soon have the entire police force after you. At one point, I'd gotten to five stars 
 (out of a possible six) , and had cars, helicopters and even the FBI chasing me, creating an amount 
 of controlled chaos rarely seen in a videogame. (It's my understanding that the sixth star produces 
 the police tank -- which I'm aching to see just for the chance to steal it.)
  
  Your Mission, Should You Choose to Accept It
  
  Attention: this is a carjacking!
  Similarly, 
 the missions themselves are presented in a fairly free-form manner. Although each boss usually 
 has 4 or 5 jobs that he or she will give to you in a specific sequence, there are usually a number 
 of bosses looking to give you work. To help maintain some order, the world of GTA 3 is split into 
 three massive boroughs; once you've completed a core set of missions, the second and third portions 
 of the city will open up to you, allowing you to become familiar with one portion of the city before 
 moving on to the next.
  
  One of the beauties of the game is that you're free to invent your own tactics. In one mission, 
 I was tasked with driving a car with a dead body in the trunk to the local car crusher, only to 
 be caught in an ambush. At first, I tried racing the bad guys to the junkyard, but after a few 
 close calls I started laying traps for them, eventually hijacking a truck, finding their hiding 
 spots and crushing their cars into tin foil before driving off with the body. In another mission, 
 tasked with assassinating a mob boss, I tried a number of different tactics -- blocking off his 
 escape route; lobbing grenades at his motorcade, and eventually just sniping him at the pickup 
 point. It's a rare game that allows you this much freedom in both its presentation as well as its 
 gameplay, and almost every mission in GTA3 has multiple paths to success.
  
  Tying all these missions together is an ambitious, winding -- and fairly mature -- story, in which 
 you start out working for the Mafia and eventually learn what's going on in Liberty City. While 
 there's a lot of violence and mature language (GTA3 is NOT a game a 10-year-old should be playing) , 
 it's fairly over-the top, with lots of humor injected as well. Many of the main characters are 
 voiced by accomplished actors such as Robert Loggia, Joe Pantoliano, Kyle MacLachlan, Debi Mazar 
 and Michael Rapaport. Almost all of these actors have had roles in significant crime films such 
 as Scarface and Goodfellas; to say their performances help sell the story would be a huge understatement. 
 
  
  You can complete GTA3's main storyline in roughly 50 missions, but there are plenty of "side" missions 
 available, bringing the overall total to around 100. If you're interested in building up cash, 
 you can take on taxicab, fire truck, ambulance and "vigilante" missions; as you build up a reputation 
 in Liberty City, your services are requested by other parties as well. All of this allows you to 
 build up cash, which can help you in later missions.
  
  But even better is the fact that you can simply grab a car, drive around, explore and do absolutely 
 nothing related to "winning" the game. Liberty City is in itself a living, breathing world teeming 
 with life -- the sun rises and sets every day, the weather changes, people go about their business 
 and almost every street seems to have secrets hidden within it. Ramps conveniently placed around 
 the city offer the opportunity to get "insane stunt bonuses", during which time the camera will 
 often cut to a slow-motion shot showing your jump in all its glory. You could easily build an entire 
 game around any of these activities, but in GTA3  they're just extra fun.
  
  Going "PC"
  
  One of the few complaints levied against the PlayStation 2 version of GTA3 was that it wasn't 
 the prettiest game ever made. Even at its best, GTA3's graphics aren't going to compete with the 
 Gran Turismos and Halos of the world, but the game does offer a number few PC-specific enhancements.
 
  
  The most obvious change is that you can now bump up the resolution as high as an insane 2048x1536 
 (well above the usually 640x480 of console games) , which affects everything -- in-game graphics, 
 cutscenes and menus. The PC version also supports much higher resolution textures (the bane of 
 many a console port) , with street signs so clear that you can actually use them to help navigate 
 the city. The animations are still a bit choppy, and there's a bit of clipping that goes on as 
 the camera swings around, but overall, the PC version looks much sharper than its PS2 parent.
 
  
  The downside is that you'll need a pretty solid machine to take advantage of these options. I tested 
 the game on two machines: a P4 / 1.8 GHz and a P3 866, both with 256 MB RAM and GeForce 3 cards. 
 On the 866, I had to run the game at 800x600 with most of the options turned down to keep things 
 running smooth; on the P4, I was able to run the game at 1024x768 with all the options maxed out 
 and still maintain a solid framerate; at anything higher, things would stutter in the heat of a 
 cluttered police chase.
  
  (One particular issue of note for Windows XP users: upon installing and running the game, I found 
 the game had a problem rendering text in both menus and subtitles. The game's readme file reports 
 that this is a Windows XP issue, and offers a fix from Microsoft's website, which worked perfectly 
 for me.)
  
  Another significant addition to the PC version is support for a mouse / keyboard control setup. 
 I'd played a good deal of the PS2 version, and while driving was easy enough, I found the DualShock 
 controller awkward while running around on foot and shooting enemies; I found the the mouse control 
 MUCH easier to work with. Sniping is now a piece of cake, and you can even set up two independent 
 sets of controls - one for driving, and one for running around on foot. And, if you just want the 
 console feel, the game supports USB gamepads and joysticks.
  
  Finally, the PC version of GTA3 offers a few customization features that the PS2 simply isn't ready 
 to handle. GTA3 offers an in-car radio with a number of music stations and some hilarious commercials 
 and talk radio, but after playing for 10 hours, you'll probably get tired of hearing the same songs 
 over and over. The PC version has an extra "station" built in so you can load up your own MP3s 
 and play them while driving around. Similarly, it's possible to create a custom skin for your character 
 simply by creating them in Photoshop and placing them in the "/gta3/skins" directory.
  
  The Final Word
  
  You'll want to get clear of your car when you flip it, as as it will explode 
 after a few moments.
  While there's no multiplayer support included in the PC version of GTA3 (it was a rumored addition 
 at one point) , it's hard to complain, considering the game's immense replay value. I seriously 
 doubt I'll ever find the time to finish every mission, explore every street, and find every secret. 
 It's a game you could play for weeks -- maybe even months -- and still discover something new every 
 day.
  
  And that, essentially, is what Grand Theft Auto III is all about, as this review only scratches 
 the surface of what the game has to offer. It's ambitious, it's got variety, it offers you the 
 freedom to play the way you want to play, and most importantly, it's FUN. It may be the videogame 
 equivalent of an R-rated movie, but GTA3 is one of the smartest games you'll ever play.
  
  From the opening credits all the way to its hysterical finale, Grand Theft Auto III is a fantastic 
 ride from start to finish. Any PC owner even remotely interested in action or driving games should 
 pick up a copy today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrick00746
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 5, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  Music: AI voices, character voices are good and also the radio music too, you can customize your 
 own music now ( you will hear your own MP3 music in one of the radio station )
  
  Graphics: Now it's a 3D third person, but the environment is not totally smooth, it's alright
 
  
  Game Play: Starting from cinematic that you and you're girlfriend ( I think ) and one of the Colombian 
 gang, rob one of the bank ( I think ) then they betray you and cough by a cop, then while on the 
 way to maximum security prison jail with the other prison inside your car, and one of there are 
 a big fish and also one of the syndicate in Liberty City are manage they men to ambush your car 
 after that you decide to escape and help one of the mafias men. You will work for mafia, yakuza, 
 triads, etc. There are many sub-mission around the map like rampage mission I don't know what you 
 get if you finish 100 of it but for sure you will gain money from it. And collect all the package 
 and all district / town, 10 package will unlock a weapon and front of your save point or hide out 
no payment for saving your progress nowto complete this sub-mission you will need to get all 
 100 package and it means you unlock all the weaponit's good right ". If you manage to complete 
 the Taxi sub-mission will unlock a nitrous ( all taxi only ) . The vigilante sub-mission, if you 
 manage to complete it will unlock a 50% armor plus ( you will have 150% armor ) . The paramedic 
 sub-mission, will unlock 50% of life, like vigilante sub-mission but instead of 50% armor you will 
 gain 50% increase to your life. I'm not sure if this one is one of the sub-mission, the car exportation 
 you need to get all the car hot list and import it, also you can go back to that area where you 
 import the car and look for the car that you want but if you already finish all the level of car 
 exportationI do that cause its will generate a lot of money I swear ". As far as I remember 
 there are tree map / town and Grand Theft Auto III. A game of betrayal cause you are not been betray 
 once or twice. A game of loyalty and respect, for every mission that you accomplish you will gain 
 respect and loyalty to continue to work for the other mafia, etc. but it will give you lot of enemy...... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aschuhart
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Rarely in the gaming industry does a game in a series comes along and has as huge of an impact 
 as Grand Theft Auto III did. When compared to the first two Grand Theft Auto games in the series, 
 Grand Theft Auto III is just a whole different game and such a far advancement that I can't even 
 think of the words to properly describe it. 
  
  Grand Theft Auto III set a new standard in the gaming industry and became the number 1 "MUST HAVE" 
 game for all platforms of 2002. The game combine so many great aspects and simple things that just 
 weren't in video games at the time but made a huge difference. From open ended game play to go 
 anywhere and do anything to detailed missions for rival crime families/organizations. The simple 
 things of radio stations that played actual real life music to picking up hookers and driving to 
 secluded places to restore health. 
  
  Grand Theft Auto III also has a great variety of vehicles with performance differences in each 
 along with a great variety of weapons as well. The script, the acting, the music, the sound, the 
 game play, the mission details were all done extremely well. 
  
  I will go as far to say that THIS is the most IMPORTANT game in the series and by that I mean if 
 you have to pick ANY title of the Grand Theft Auto series that had the biggest influence and impact 
 on the series, without a doubt it's this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto is the game that smashed the barriers of fun, excitement, and moral values. This 
 game only got better almost a year later when it came out for the PC. The third in the GTA series 
 and the first fully 3D Grand Theft Auto game. With it's sequels, GTA: Vice City for the PC and 
 PS2 and GTA: San Andreas for PS2 and coming soon for PC, the GTA series is becoming somewhat of 
 an icon.
  The graphics of this game are a major upgrade from the previous versions. Fully 3D environments 
 are only better on the PC with a farther draw distance and sharper resolutions. The sound is great 
 too.
  The gameplay is awesome, although lacking when compared too the sequels. Even so, there is still 
 plenty to do in this game and should keep you entertained for a long time. As the game's name suggests, 
 you will be doing a lot of car thieving, killing, and looting.
  
  If you have never played a GTA game before, you are in for a treat. This one is definitely worth 
 picking up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 8
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 9
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Grand Theft Auto III is the first GTA that is 3D. And it is an amazing game, but the graphics 
 aren't all that great, so don't expect graphics like San Andreas or anything. There aren't any 
 motorcycles, planes, jets, or even helicopters in the game like the other GTA's and also you only 
 have one hide out per island. However, its still a decent fun game but nothing big if you already 
 played Vice City and/or San Andreas. You still have the car jacking, shooting civilians, and running 
 away from the cops. The only main difference is that it has a different, but still amazing, storyline. So 
 even though it doesn't have all the features that the other Grand Theft Autos have its still a 
 solid and amazing game. If you want the most of of Grand Theft Auto III, I recommend modding it 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savetehhaloz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  GTA III was the first GTA game I ever played. The game is extremely addictive; even after finishing 
 all the missions. The game itself is a solid port from the PS2, with a few minor aesthetical issues 
 here and there. I used a midrange PC (512 mb RAM) and the game worked perfectly with no graphical 
 slowdowns even when moving from location to location. However, six years after its release in 2002, 
 is this game worth picking up?
  
  GTAIII is similar to GTA San Andreas in most aspects, except San Andreas is better in terms of 
 graphics and gameplay. You can't enter in and out of buildings in GTA III, like specific stores 
 and all and you can't swim. GTAIII also features a small Cessna like airplane called the Dodo, 
 which is terrible to fly. All in all, GTA III is like a smaller and less interactive San Andreas. 
 
  Even with the settings turned on to high, the textures were still pretty washed out and the types 
 of cars could be more diverse. There are also no motorbikes in GTAIII. The PC version also features 
 a "rewind" utility (default key is F1) which lets you view up to 30 seconds (i think) of gameplay. 
 
  
  All in all GTAIII is a pretty solid game only worth picking up if you want to dig into the Grand 
 Theft Auto series' rich history of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: infinite_venom
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  GTA III is one of the predescessors of GTA San Andreas. It's still fun and good. The gameplay is 
 solid and great and theres tons of stuff to do. The missions are also nice but others aren't well 
 designed. What only exists in the game are cars and people. Thats it, those are all the things 
 you can ride. There's of course tanks to though it would have been better if Rockstar implemented 
 some more vehicles. The graphics are still nice. It might seem outdated but its still good. The 
 frame rate is also smooth. The sound is great like explosions or the voice acting. The music is 
 also nice.
  
  There's not much difference between the PS2 and PC version except the PC version may have slightly 
 better performance and graphics.
  
  Overall, even though its 5 years old, GTA III is still a solid fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alext_b
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Tired of all sorts of laws in the real world? Everyday traffic getting on your nerves? If yes, 
 then Grand Theft Auto III is the best way to calm you down. 
  GTA III is a revolutionary game which gives the term "free-roaming" a whole new meaning. Carjacking 
 to driving practice. Trains to planes. Red Light Districts to high speed freeways. This game's 
 got everything you might want from a cyber life. The freedom to spread chaos and destruction, commit 
 mass murder, mess around with the cops keeps you hooked to this game for hours, even after you're 
 done with the mission.
  Keeping the free-roam features aside, this game offers a hoard of enjoyable missions to complete. 
 The difficulty of the missions varies from sandbox level to really tough missions which need ultimate 
 perfection to complete.
  Not only this, the game's awesome graphics and totally mind-blowing soundtrack keeps you asking 
 for more. GTA III gives your gameplay experience the ultimate realism any game of this generation 
 has to offer. The game offers a variety of radio stations as well, ranging from RJ chit-chat to 
 loud rock music. Some of the tracks will really give you a boost while you attempt to complete 
 tough missions, or simply add some flavor to the easy ones.
  The plot gives you a very good idea about how mafias work, and much amusing such a profession can 
 be. After finishing the game once, you'll find the plot so brilliant that you'll want to play the 
 game all over again just for the story!! If the plot doesn't interest you so much the freedom of 
 activity in the game will definitely keep you playing for a few extra hours.
  The bottomline: If you haven't got this game yet, then WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR!! Go to a gaming 
 store near you and buy this game!! You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jkald
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto III was released on the PlayStation 2 in late 2001 and by mid 2002 it also found 
 its way to the personal computer systems all around the world where it was and still is the excellent 
 free roaming action adventure game it used to be on Sony's system.
  
  Grand Theft Auto III (from here on GTA3) is a third person action adventure game that has the main 
 nameless character do all sorts of shady stuff on the fictional streets of Liberty City -- the player 
 basically goes through a life of crime pretty similar to that in previous Grand Theft Auto entries. 
 You, as the main character, rob banks, kill opposing gang members, evade the police and generally 
 just cause a lot of mayhem on the downtown, suburbs and business districts of a rather huge and 
 open-ended world. Just like in the previous games. The main thing that differentiates this episode 
 from the last is the fact that you do all this in a completely 3D world, not just top-down like 
 in previous entries. This change is pretty drastic and not only does it immerse the player in the 
 action, it also makes the whole game play experience a lot better and more interesting.
  
  The main character in GTA3 has two ways to move from one location to the other: on foot and in 
 vehicle. The first one works pretty much like a standard third-person shooter and the second one 
 works pretty much like any typical racing game out there with the small difference of being able 
 to do drive-byes with an uzi from the windows of the car. It is also important to mention that 
 the game offers two different ways to control the main character: standard and classic. The first 
 option works best if using the keyboard and mouse combo and the second is probably a good choice 
 if the player decides to use a USB controller. The most simple way to explain this is basically 
 that classic option is exactly like playing the game on the PlayStation 2 and standard is like 
 playing an FPS on a PC. It is nice that the developers gave this choice to gamers because some 
 may prefer a regular good old control pad. Both of these schemes work great though and in the end, 
 it all comes down to personal preference. There are two minor gripes with the controls though: 
 camera can sometimes be really hectic while running around on foot and the auto aiming is not really 
 that good -- it would be nice if the camera would switch to the the target while shooting because 
 then it would be clear who you are actually trying to gun down: a mafia guy who is eager to kill 
 you or a random pedestrian. This is still pretty much nitpicking because the whole problem does 
 not really make the game any worse at all!
  
  Graphically, GTA3 on PC is absolutely as stunning as it was on the PlayStation 2: the city looks 
 gorgeous with its store signs, frequently changing weather and frustrated pedestrians walking the 
 streets; the cars are modeled nicely and they get wrecked pretty realistically. Sometimes the back 
 trunk jumps open, the front glass cracks and doors just happen to fall off. It is all very nice 
 to look at providing there is a powerful machine behind it all -- the game requires a lot from the 
 computer and to get the absolute maximum could be a pretty demanding task.
  
  If played on a powerful machine though, GTA3 has this great atmosphere about it. It really feels 
 like a metropolitan city with all of its good and bad sides. To complement the action designers 
 have added a bunch of different radio stations to the game which range from classical to hip hop 
 to talk radio and as an added bonus for people who waited for the PC version it is also possible 
 to make custom soundtracks and listen to MP3 or WAV files from the hard drive. This is great news 
 to people who have perhaps played the original on the PlayStation 2 already and are tired of the 
 same radio stations or for those who really can not find anything to fit their tastes from the 
 game.
  
  The differences between the console and PC versions of this game are pretty minimal actually. One 
 of the things the designers added was a useless replay feature: by pressing F1 the player can check 
 what she or he did for the last 30 or so seconds in the game and that is pretty much it. There 
 is no possibility to change the camera view or anything like that. The other addition is the inherently 
 more useful custom soundtrack described earlier. But that is actually pretty much it, there are 
 no new radio stations, cars, missions or anything else that would be nice to add to a game that 
 PC gamers had to wait for such a long time after the release of the original. Nonetheless, GTA3 
 for the PC is still one of the greatest games of all time and everyone should at least check it 
 out. It has great graphics, a wonderful funny soundtrack and an amazing action-filled game to match 
 it all!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpo911
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  The game starts out where you and a bunch gangsters are sitting in a police van. All of a sudden 
 a truck follows the van and drops a bomb which destroyed the bridge the police van wanted to cross. you 
 get saves by a black man and you drive with him to a hideout and get yourself some clothes to wear. From 
 there you could follow all the missions in any order or walk around and do what ever you want. Pretty 
 much darn cool game if you ask me. If gta 4 comes out ill be the first guy to play it.
  
  THE GOOD OF THE GAME: Freeroaming 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aussieboy911
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  what gta 111 does that makes it classic isnt the stuff thats blatently obvious. the world is so 
 fantastic that not for a moment do you think that it will end because you are always doing something. 
 the graphics arent phenomenal but the amount that needs to rendered is. the characters are great, 
 the city is wonderful the guns are effective to a point that almost seems rediculous the cars are 
 fast the pedestrians are powerless and so are the cops........ youve probably read everything else 
 that needs to be read in other reviews but take it from me this is a classic 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whirl_whirl
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  Yeah, a lot of people have slammed GTAIII for its over excessive use of violence as in 'main focus'. 
 However, here are the reasons why you MUST get GTA III.
  
  1) Its just so realistic.
  
  The graphics are way awesome, and other games pale in comparison to it. Every detail in the game 
 is paid attention too; for example normal people will rush to the scene of an accident 'to take 
 a closer look', while they will all run away and scream when the sound of a gunshot can be heard. 
 Real, no?
  
  2) Intriguing storyline.
  
  The storyline is one of double crossings, backstabbing, assassinations. Naturally the storyline 
 makes you want to continue the game, to find out the end of the protagonist.
  
  3) The game never ends.
  
  Well, after the story/career mode is completed in most games, the 
 game will 'end'. But in GTA III, the game is far from over even after the credits roll. Sandbox-style, 
 you still can perform insane car jumps, carjack other people's cars, and wage a full-bloodied war 
 with the cops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wigster666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Grand theft auto 3 is a great game not just for the story line but also the gameplay. The story 
 is of a man (name unknown) who is out to make it big in Liberty City and get some cash. Gta3 has 
 a massive amount of missions to do and sub-missions such as the taxi, police and fire missions. 
 These are great for keeping you amused or earning a bit of cash if you spent it all on guns. the 
 graphics are quite good really specially for there day. Although if beating up grannies and causing 
 general mayhem in rampages is not your kind of thing i wouldnt get this as some people might find 
 it offensive. Shame there is no two player feature/ multiplayer (although i found a mod called 
 multitheft auto but i cant seem to get it to work with my gta 3 game) . This game is probably the 
 best gta still with san andreas in second or joint first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  What is freedom? To barge around anywhere? To kick anyone's a** in the streets? To drive any car 
 that you want? Grand Theft Auto is your virtual paradise of crime from car-jacking to prostitution 
 to robbery to murder. One can only trust Rockstar to challenge the moral standard of games that 
 depict and glorify such unlawful acts that'll piss your local sheriff, FBI, Robocop and Judge Dredd 
 off. Whoa! Ok, it's for mature gamers, mature enough to not apply such acts from the game into 
 real life.
  
  If you've read the official walkthrough, I believe that's enough reason to get you buying it straight 
 away if you intended to. For me, I can obtain 100 percent satisfaction from the game just by cruising 
 around the city in the many variety of modeled-from-real-life cars your character can lay his hands 
 on. The experience is like when your dad owns Toys'R'us and he allows you to open the package of 
 any toy you like in the store and play till your heart's content before you go and pick up another 
 one. Bless Rockstar to come up with such an amazing gaming experience.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamez_Hunter99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 3:56 am PT
Review:  Gameplay
  The gameplay in gta 3 is quite brilliant, in the game world you can do whatever you want what can 
 bring up some fun ideas. Some of the stuff you can do in the game can be anything from a simply 
 driving around the city to going on a rampage. The game plot starts with you getting by his girlfriend 
 during a heist and gets captured by the police and then we going to the prison a group of gangsters 
 stop the convoy and drop a bomb on the bridge and then the game starts with you stuck on the first 
 island working your way to being the boss of liberty city. The mission range from races to doing 
 hits on the bosses of gangs; like taking out the mafia boss. When you do take out gang bosses that 
 gang will react to that and will start shooting at you. Overall the gameplay is brilliant part 
 of the gta 3.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in gta 3 is better than the ps2 version but does have little problems. The game does 
 look great if you have it on high settings and its looks good if you have it on lower settings 
 but either way, the game looks good. The character models all look nice and so does the textures. 
 The car models looks good and the damage modelling looks ok. Overall the graphics in gta 3 looks 
 good but does have a few problems.
  
  Sound
  The sound in gta 3 is superb, the voice acting in the game is great and adds the feel of the game. 
 The people walking on the street sometimes you can hear them talking what sounds good. The 9 radio 
 stations all sound good and have a good range of music ranging from pop to classical. Overall the 
 sound in the game is superb.
  
  Value
  The value for gta 3 is great, the game has 73 missions that will take a couple of hours to finish 
 but you can just do what you want so it could be a few months till you have actually want to finish 
 the game.
  
  Overall experience
  Overall if you are a fan of sandbox games or didnt play the console version of the game then you 
 should try out gta 3 on the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:48 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto III is a game that couldnt help but be a blockbuster. Released l for the PlayStation 
 2, it sold 6 million copies worldwide and stirred controversy over its violence. But the only controversy 
 should have been explaining why it took the industry so long to design such a brilliantly free-form 
 game.
  
  And now its been visually revamped for the PC (though the core game is identical, down to the 
 limited save slots and lack of in-mission saves and multiplay) . On your PC monitor, GTA III looks 
 twice as good as it ever did on a TV screen, running smoothly at 1600x1200 on a PIII 667 with a 
 GeForce3 card.
  
  What else is the same? Only one of the most innovative and inspired game designs in years, irrespective 
 of platform.
  
  GTA III is a crime epic putting you in the lead-footed shoes of an ambitious, amoral carjacker 
 clawing his way to the top of the criminal underworld. If it can be stolen, destroyed, beaten, 
 shotgunned, blown up, sniped, run over, or hit with a rocket launcher, you can be sure that youll 
 get around to doing it by games end.
  
  Missions are set up through a ton of comic book cut-scenes in which you encounter dozens of shady 
 characters  pimps, dealers, Mafiosi, gang-bangers, and high-rollers  who employ you to carry 
 out a cavalcade of dodgy deals on their behalf.
  
  You play mainly from a third-person chase view, walking and running around until you find a car 
 you want or need, at which point you can usually yank out the driver and make off with the new 
 wheels. (Though not always without a fight  I was clubbed and/or shot to death by the irreverent 
 carjackee on several occasions.)
  
  Once in a vehicle, you have free rein of the city streets. As traffic flows and pedestrians amble 
 the sidewalks, you can either obey functioning traffic lights or zip merrily through the city. 
 Certain activities, like maliciously running people over, will draw the attention of the police, 
 who will swarm you and haul you off to jail, whereupon you lose any weapons (bat, pistol, shotgun, 
 grenade, Uzi, sniper rifle, and eventually RPG) and some of your cash.
  
  Dealing with the law is a game-long concern. Depending on the severity of your behavior, the alert 
 could be low-level (an inquisitive squad car or two) or truly seismic (National Guard intervention, 
 complete with attack helicopters) .
  
  Each vehicle has its own handling characteristics, and there are way too many of them to even begin 
 to touch on. Sleek European sports cars, clunky stationwagons, vans, pickups, limos, construction 
 trucks  every type of vehicle on four wheels is in this game. And each offers new strategies for 
 dealing with missions. Need to ram an armored car off the road? Pilfer a nice big sturdy truck 
 to do the job. A courier sprint, on the other hand, will necessitate your scoring a fast and maneuverable 
 ride.
  
  A REVOLUTION OF INVENTION
  
  The story kicks off with a brutal attack on a police prisoner-transfer convoy. Youre one of the 
 lucky beneficiaries of the breakout. Back at large, you heist yourself a set of wheels and follow 
 an ex-cons tip about where to get work from a low-level capo in the Leone crime family.
  
  In Liberty City, the opportunities are endless for a young man with no fear and no morals. The 
 game pays constant homage to the movie Scarface, with your character doing for carjacking what 
 Tony Montana did for coke. From your first mission as a lowly hooker chauffeur, youll be learning 
 the ins and outs of the city, making useful contacts at the chop-shop and gun store, and gradually 
 earning the trust of the hoods who employ you.
  
  The genius of GTA III is the free-form playground of its cities, with missions waiting to be tapped 
 in every neighborhood. After a dozen or so missions around Liberty City, youll come to visualize 
 the place as a functioning town of very different boroughs. Youll have developed your favorite 
 shortcuts, and youll know the fastest route from the tony terraces of Hepburn Heights to the squalor 
 and crime of the Red Light District.
  
  Speaking of free-form, you can switch between radio stations as you drive, moving from pop to rap 
 to techno to AM talk. (My fave is KJAH Jah Radio: Knowledge is king, mon.) In a tweak specific 
 to the PC, you can use your own library of MP3s to provide a custom soundtrack. For me, theres 
 nothing like sprinting through Liberty City with H2Os cover of Ice Cubes It Was A Good Day 
 blaring from your speakers.
  Another PC-specific change is the removal of many of the arbitrary barriers that blocked off certain 
 routes through the PS2 version. You can also add customized skins to the main character, allowing 
 you to terrorize the city with your own mug facing forward.
  
  Some of the best bits of GTA III are the incidental cacophonies of the big city, observed peripherally 
 as you drive from place to place. Turn a corner in Chinatown, and you may find yourself in the 
 middle of a shootout between Mafia gunmen and Chinese Triad toughs. Pick your way around stalled 
 cars blocking busy traffic. Or just admire the chalk outlines left on the sidewalk  remnants of 
 your past victims.
  
  As you become intimately familiar with your stomping grounds, youll make the acquaintance of a 
 colorful succession of employers. Some are referred to you by happy patrons, who kick you upstairs 
 to more challenging and higher-paying work for their bosses. Others seek you out as your reputation 
 grows. And others are found just by accident  for example, try picking up any ringing payphones 
 for the random odd job.
  
  Dont be surprised to hear some well-known voices coming from the mouths of your employers. Joe 
 Pantoliano and Michael Rapaport provide the voices of two of your early contacts, and Michael Madsen, 
 Kyle MacLachlan, and Debi Mazar show up as well. Far from being annoying celeb cameos, these 
 crime-film character actors lend the gamewell, the air of a crime film stuffed with your favorite 
 character actors.
  
  I became a believer in GTA IIIs truly revolutionary inventiveness after figuring out how to assassinate 
 Chunky Lee Chong at his noodle shop. Chong is located in an alley inaccessible to cars, and hes 
 guarded by a cadre of armed thugs. I was maliciously gunned down during every attempt to run up 
 and carry out the hit.
  
  Then I noticed that Chong ran for his car every time I attacked. And a thought occurred to me: 
 in a previous mission, Id been assigned to snatch a car from a lunching mob boss, drive it to 
 a bomb shop, and then return the sabotaged car to its parking space at the restaurant. The mobster 
 had returned to his car only to blow himself sky-high.
  Sowhy not?
  
  I loaded up the Chong mission again and this time quietly stole his car. Drove it across town to 
 the bomb shop. Returned it to its spot. Charged down the alley guns a-blazing, but as soon as Chong 
 broke into his run, I fled to safety. Chong wasnt so lucky  he ducked into his car and tried 
 to drive off as usual, but this time found himself in the center of a fireball.
  
  It was an exultant moment  one of the most rewarding bits of gaming Ive ever experienced. And 
 from then on, every mission that followed was informed by the tools and tricks Id absorbed from 
 previous ones. (How many solutions are there to different missions? Well, remember when I said 
 that Chongs alleyway was inaccessible by car? It actually is accessible, provided youre smart 
 enough to figure out that an improvised ramp can be rigged to allow your car to vault the concrete 
 rail that blocks the alley.)
  
  Its almost pointless to start listing missions: there are so many, and so many ways in which to 
 complete them. (There are around 100 missions in all, if you follow every lead.)
  
  While some are more interesting than others, theres hardly a dog in the whole batch. Steer a don 
 through an ambush at the wheel of a slow, cumbersome limousine. Win a street race against three 
 souped-up sports cars. Hijack an armored car. Youll eventually make your way through three different 
 islands, each presenting you with new environs to conquer.
  
  One of the very best things about this game is its almost total lack of any visible interface. 
 There are no menus to open and close, no stats to track, virtually nothing to get in the way of 
 cinematic storytelling. All youve got to worry about is your health meter, your cash, and the 
 level of law-enforcement heat. Its a lesson other game designers should take to heart. Transparent 
 interface = immediate accessibility, and PC games in particular stand to benefit greatly from the 
 success of this experiment.
  
  My only complaint about GTA III is the one vestigial headache of its console pedigree  a lack 
 of helpful features that a keyboard might otherwise have enabled. The main thing missing is an 
 overhead map of the whole city that updates itself as you make new contacts: as is, you get a partial 
 map of the city that shows your immediate vicinity. A larger map would make the game so much less 
 frustrating, since you wouldnt have to rely on memory in the heat of a chase (and then unlearn 
 everything when you unlock a new city) .
  
  Another quick word on system specs: it can be a hog. Though the aforementioned PIII 667 test system 
 ran the game at high-res without a hitch, its GeForce3 card was critical. (GTA III ran great on 
 a P4 2.2GHz!) Since the game demands the latest video- and sound-card drivers, expect a few compatibility 
 issues in the first days of release.
  But its hard to imagine a PC gamer who wont immediately take to GTA III. It empowers you as a 
 player in ways few games even try to do. And its quite simply a whole lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BdoggRAY
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 17, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  cool _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ v_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
 _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 15, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  Concept- You are hired by the mafia after a friendhelps you escape jail. Then you must go on an 
 amazing adventure to rule the city that beats the crap out of scarface. Graphics- This game is 
 so much pritier on the PC than on the PS2 and the hands have been changed from stumps to hands. 
 Sound- I like Vice City's radio better. This game has the worst radio staations. Turn down the 
 volume on your TV and start cranking ur stereo. THe characters dont talk either. Controls- The 
 controls are o so very simple. They can however sometimes let you down when your up against in 
 invisible wall. Replay Value- High GTA 3 is one of the best games ever made. The story is awsome. 
 There are so many twists and turns you dont know what to expect. You are put in a New York City 
 area that is known as Liberty City. There are many actors who lend their voice to this game. If 
 they were in a mob movie they're probablly featrued in here somewhere. There is even a radio station 
 dedicated to music from the movie Scarface. This game isnt based at all on Scarface,, but VC definatley 
 has some close connections. The one thing i didnt like about this game was that your character 
 doesnt talk. In Vice City he's a smart ass, but in this game you don't talk at all. You are just 
 a little errand boy who does people's dirty work. This is saad but I got so bored with my character 
 being someones puppet and not talking at all I started talking to the game and filling in the thin 
 spots. The graphics are updated for the pc. The game seems shinier and the hand problems have been 
 addresed. I thought that the controls were a tad complitcated for the pc, but having each weapon 
 assigned a nuber key was nice. Pick up this version or the double pack if they're available. Pick 
 the xbox if you hav etrouble with pc controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silentfox2239
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 27, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  FUN GAME! gets a little boring after you beat the game but it is pretty fun to just FREE PLAY! 
 how could you not like it? you get to drive cars and block the road to wait for cars to pile up 
 until you find one you like. The mafia is cool to run from because they will keep coming. make 
 sure you kill cops so that they come after you. Getting the fastest car can keep you interested. 
 and you can listen to the radio which is pretty cool because there are diffferent stations. This 
 is much more fun than on PS2 and easier to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefycake
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 30, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  The Grand Theft Auto series are the hightlight of Rockstar's Games.
  There's been a wide selection of GTA games, originating from the simple PS 1 console to the upcoming 
 GTA 4 on the PS3. Some have been sucessful, while others have been shunned down, but the one GTA 
 game that has changed gaming history today, is the simple yet complex world of GRAND THEFT AUTO 
 3. Its hard to believe that GTA 3, though only 5 years old, has already changed the way we see 
 n many games. So why exactly is GTA 3 such a huge impact in the gaming industry and even the world? 
 Is it the image, the vaule, the controversy, the extreme violence and blood or the fact that we 
 can practically do anything? The answer. Everything!!! I must say that GTA 3 is the best game ever 
 made in Rockstar Games.
  I maybe over exaggerating a bit, considering there are many title worthy of calling great games 
 made by Rockstar. However in my opinion , just like the classic Super Mario Bros on the Nes, GTA 
 3 is a classic! The story of GTA 3 takes place in a corrupt, New York/New Jersey like city called 
 : LIBERTY CITY. It begins with a bank heist, 4 thefts pop into the scene, one driving the wheel 
 ( aka the car) 3 holding the stolen good and guns. Suddenly on of your buds, a gal to be specific, 
 caps one your dude and then point a gun to your face , bam! you go down. Eventually you end up 
 in a police truck awaiting your arrival to prison, when suddenly gangs come up, take out an unknown 
 prisoner from your truck, then a bomb blows up! You're now stranded in a unknown city, no cash 
 and no where to go. Until you other prison mate that was with you in the track, tell you of an 
 opportunity to get a job and some well earn cash. The only catch, you gonna have to get you hads 
 dirty if you want to survive in Liberty City. The game itself is incredible. The difference compared 
 from the previous GTA, is now its 3rd person, rather the old birds eye view. Liberty City is a 
 huge city, consisting of 3 areas, PORTLAND, a New Jersery/ Chicago like city, STANTON ISLAND, a 
 New York like city, and SHORESIDE VALE, the Suburban like area. Each has a distinct scenery with 
 different kinds of civilians roaming around the town. In GTA 3, you, who apparently doesnt have 
 a name but later on well know, will have to do several mission for the mob and other mafias or 
 corrupt individuals in the city. Consisting of the Italian Mafia, the Chinese Triads, the Hispanic 
 gang, the Jamaican Yardies, the Columbian Cartels, and etc. The missions consist of either stealing 
 cars, picking up packages, taking out baddies or etc. You'll have the chance to steal the wheels 
 you desire on the road, shoot many cool weapons, run through the middle of a traffic and much much 
 more. There load of features you can do in GTA 3, whether you want to finish all the mission or 
 cause havoc around the city, it up to you, youve got the freedom. The graphic arent half bad, it 
 acceptable, considering the technology back then, the character look decent, the cars look ok and 
 the backbround look pretty neat! The gamplay is a 3rd person kind of shooter, youll have to learn 
 how to drive well, shoot good, run fast and accomplish you mission properly. It takes time to learn 
 the rule. But if you master it, you well n your way to finishing this game. The sound in GTA 3 
 is awesome, the sound of people taking, the honking of cars and heavy traffic and the radio music 
 is really catchy and fun. One thing that is noticable is the voice acting of several, notable performed 
 by popular celebrities. Joe Pantoliano, Michael Madsen, Michael Rapaport. Frank Vincent, Kyle Maclachlan, 
 Debi Mazar, and many more. Bottom line, Gta 3 is simple the best. It a game everybody must play 
 before you die, much like SMB or Zelda. Although it very violent and vulgar, and it very controversial, 
 still that should not stop you from playing this. If you havent played, i highly recommend playing 
 this game. if you do this for me, you'll be a made man.. anything you want! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 22, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  GTAIII, oh the memories of killing innocent people for guilty pleasure, GTA is still one of the 
 best franchises in gaming territory, bringing us games like GTA2, Vice City and San Andreas, this 
 game shows us the beginning of what we call freeroaming!
  
  GTAIII lets you play the silent protaganist Fido or ''that guy from GTA3'' as Rockstar calls him, 
 he's been arrested after some issues with his girlfriend and ex-partner in crime, seeing his girlfriend 
 and Miguel (some guy whose not interesting) take of with the loot, Fido is arrested but gets back 
 on the road (literally) after a bomb exploded on a bridge in Liberty City, making you a free man 
 as the officers that were driving you and 8-Ball got killed.
  
  Gameplay:
  GTA is simple, default arrow or WASD keys with chunky gameplay from what we expect from GTA, I 
 had some issues with the camera, and fighting in close combat with people might a be bit tricky 
 since it sometimes won't let you hit the person you want, instead making you hit more people, getting 
 a higher risk and getting police on you're ass.
  
  Graphics:
  For the year GTAIII came out, the graphics are good, note that this was probably the only freeroaming 
 sandbox game at the time, or atleast the best one, vehicles look good in light, after getting chased 
 alot or after crashing into alot of things all vehicles will look like flakcannon ammo.
  
  Weather is also in GTA3, from sunshine to rain, or storm or just the silence before the storm.
 
  
  AI:
  GTAIII's AI is atleast to say, dumb, if you attack people in CC they'll run away, lay down or fight 
 back, if they have guns they'll stand still shooting you mostly with poor aim, alot of missions 
 aren't challenging, except the driving missions.
  
  Story:
  Read the first line, hun.
  
  Is it a good game of its genre:
  Absolutely! It was the first GTA who was fully 3D! It was 
 a great game for its time and its still enjoyable now, freeroaming revolution began with GTAIII! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 15, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  Story: You are new to Liberty City and play as a player who doesn't say one word throughout the 
 whole game.
  
  Graphics: A huge difference from the past GTAs and looked decent for 2002.
  
  Audio: Funny 
 Voiceovers, Hilarious radio commercials, decent sound effects.
  
  Missions: A wide range from wacking a snitch to defending an airplane against drug dealers.
  
 
  Features: One of the greatest sandbox games ever. If you can think it, chances are you can do it.
 
  
  A. I.: Nothing Special and can glitch out which is very annoying.
  
  Loading Times: Few, only loading between missions and the 3 large islands.
  
  Multiplayer: 
 None, Mods make it possible.
  
  Requirements: Very Low
  
  Weapons: Baseball Bat, 9mm, Mac 10, AK, M16, Rocket Launcher, Shotgun, etc.
  
  The Good: Very 
 open and has a gaming experience found no where else.
  
  The Bad: Glitches and Annoying Missions
  
  The Ugly: Using a Hooker, then beating her when 
 your done to get your money back.
  
  Replay Ability: Medium/High
  
  The Bottom Line: If you have never played GTA III, do it. If your curious where the latest GTAs 
 got their roots from GTA III is the answer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 9, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto III stands out as an exceptional game in the crowd of all games. From the player's 
 point of view to the game design -- the mark of exception is loudly visible.
  Why is it exceptional? Because in this game you are developing a career as a gangster. No harm 
 done in the real life -- though many have raised the question of ethics. No wonder why this game 
 is not suitable for kids.
  The hero of the game was betrayed by his girlfriend during a heist and while being taken to the 
 coolers, the hero escapes to the city. Here he will work his way up from the lowest tier of criminals 
 to the top position. He would complete assignments of his boss and that way steal cars, beat people 
 or even kill people. In addition, he has to escape the long hand of the law.
  The beauty of the game lies in the elaborate interactive environment. Its a large city. Some parts 
 of the city will unlock as you progress in your career. You can roam around freely all the corners 
 of the game in the unlocked city parts and interact with characters. In this way this game gives 
 you a feeling of a City Sim.
  Another memorable aspect of the game is the music. Whenever you hop into a car, you can turn on 
 the radio -- it has got many channels of different types of music. In this way, you get the real 
 feel of driving inside a car and roaming around the city.
  The challenges of the assignments gradually become tougher. Some demand that you complete a job 
 within certain time limit -- while for others you can take your time.
  At times though, because of the openness of the environment -- you might lack a sense of direction 
 if you really want to explore the world. Rather stick to the assignments.
  Overall if you want to experience the violent world of mobsters, this game is highly recommended. 
 Don't play it if you have a problem playing the role of a gangsta. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 6, 2007 4:13 am PT
Review:  This was the first serious GTA. The other ones weren't the same: too boring.
  
  Graphics:7/10 So many games had better graphics than GTA III. Morrowind, Mafia, Serious Sam. Grand 
 Theft Auto III doesen't impress: some horrible textured objects here, too blurry cutscenes there, the 
 only good thing are the posters that say Zombie Elvis Found With Shit .But I like Elvis, so whatever.
 
  
  Sound:9/10 The sound is really great. Good sound effects, good voice acting, excellent music (best 
 radio station is Flashback FM) , but unfortunatelly the gun shots sound &amp; the cars engines do 
 not sound really good.
  
  Gameplay:10/10 This is the best gameplay for the year 2002. A big city ( Liberty City, made after 
 New York) is free to be explored anytime you want, everywhere you want. You can steal the cars from 
 parking lots or directly from the road. But be aware of the police: they'll track you down. Pass 
 diverse missions from the persons that give tem to you, which include  
 chases &amp; a lot more. You'll never get bord.
  
  Value:10/10 Such a game doesen't appear every year. It's trully a masterpiece,&amp; it is pretty 
 long. After you finish the main story you can complete secondary missions.
  
  Tilt:10/10 I don't mean the storyline. The story deserves 8, but I won't give it to it because it 
 would ruin the overall grade. So tilt means impression here. GTA III is an excellent game, but not 
 better than Mafia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agturboninja
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  A game with great free-roaming and exploration and many things to do. Side missions, and creative 
 story missions help the game. The sound is amazing in the game. Cars, and boats and ways of transportation 
 help in the game. It's fun hearing to radio stations with Lazlow and some of the songs Rockstar 
 Games produced with Craig Conner. GTA 3 is a masterpiece and even with Vice City and San Andreas, 
 I still play GTA 3. GTA 3 was great being in 3D and having a more immersive city then GTA 1 and 
 2. GTA 3 is one of the greatest games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilreyes
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 7, 2007 8:21 am PT
Review:  Five years after it's release you can see the impact that this game had when it came out just by 
 looking at your local game store's shelves - there are enough sequels and rip-offs of this game 
 to choke a dinosaur, and to keep Michael Madsen working as a voice-over actor for a decade. Sure 
 the graphics have always been a little on the plain side, but just like your sister and your mom, 
 she may be ugly but she put's out... and GTAIII brings the goods where it counts - gameplay. From 
 beating the average joe in the street and taking his cash, to knocking boots in the back seat of 
 a stolen car with a street walkin' ho and beating her to death and taking her cash - GTAIII let's 
 you act like a Cincinnati Bengal on an angel dust bender. Sometimes being bad is just more fun 
 than walking the straight and narrow, and GTAIII let's you be the villain without laying on a morality 
 based guilt trip. Besides, games are supposed to be a release and a diversion from the normal world 
 around you - that's why there aren't a whole lot of games where you go to work, pay bills and die 
 from colon cancer. The plot lines in GTAIII are fun to play through, but are just about as mindless 
 as the havoc you'll be unleashing on the streets of Liberty City in a tank. So check your common 
 sense at the door and enjoy the ride. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dom84ts
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 19, 2007 2:31 am PT
Review:  As i sad on the previous review with Gta II the real game of Gta finished there! This is another 
 Gta with powerful graphics sound and game play!
  
  Unfortunately in this Gta there weren't bikes!! : ( : ( : ( So sad! : (
  The game at the end is the 
 same! You have to do mission to earn money or make disasters in the city destroying cars, truck 
 &amp; people! :)
  
  Also here like in previous versions of Gta the police will try to stop you passing through different 
 emergency levels! At the beginning only few patrols of police than more patrols FBI and at the 
 end soldiers! (very dangerous)
  
  
  -----&gt; next review Gta: Vice city 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingrich06
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 28, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  I first played GTA series on console so I wasnt expecting too much from this version. As a console 
 to PC port I can say I enjoy this game a lot. Playing a bad guy appeals to some of us and it did 
 for me. The graphics are not too bad with a lot of different vehicles almost resembling the real 
 cars. The sounds that come from the radio is so unique and humorous that I never got sick of hearing 
 them over and over. If you did can always copy MP3s into the folder to have your own listing music. 
 Not only do you plenty of missions to accomplish as you gain fame as a car jacker / mobster there 
 are plenty of side missions to do. From finding packages to insane jumps you can do a lot. The 
 map is fairly large as well, it takes a few minutes driving around the whole thing. The is one 
 worth having in any collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adammurray
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jan 27, 2007 11:30 am PT
Review:  This game was ok but the controls were horrible. The action was a disgrace to the GTA series. I 
 would stick with the ps2 and xbox version. This game was very boring and dissapointing. i would 
 not suggest it. if they had a demo out I would play that before I bought it to see how good it 
 actually was! In the end it was boring and disgraceful. Avoid this game and go to another series 
 if you like the pc versions! I wish I hadn't bought it in the first place. This game truly was 
 a piece of junk. luckily I got it at a garage sale for only 2.50. ell I guess I got what I paid 
 for! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madmatt253
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2007 1:48 am PT
Review:  when this game came out i was young back then but i was still aloud to play it and i would sit 
 there blowing polel up and stealing cars at age 9 LOL and last year i was in EB and i found this 
 on PC for $!0 and i bought it in less than one minute and took it home and it played like a masterpiece 
 on my powerful computer and i loved it best cheapest game iv ever bought so if you want a grand 
 theft auto cheap then buy it on PC for ten dollars and love killing people LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan4u
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 12, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  Guide Rating - *****
  The Bottom Line
  Extremely violent and addicting game that will keep everyone up at night.
  Pros
  Almost Unlimited 
 Replay-ability
  Freedom to do what you please
  Enormous 3-D game world
  Cons
  Ultra Violent, NOT for Children
  No Multi-player capability
  Description
  The huge 3-D city 
 comes to life and lead to countless crimes, missions, and side jobs.
  Missions allow so much freedom that game can be played over and over again.
  Great graphics, 
 with over 50 detailed vehicles to create havoc with.
  Guide Review - Grand Theft Auto 3
  From Rockstar Games: LIBERTY CITY, USA. WELCOME TO AMERICA'S WORST CITY. You've been betrayed and 
 left for dead. Now you're taking revenge, unless the city gets you first. Mob bosses need a favor, 
 crooked cops need help and street gangs want you dead. You'll have to rob, steal and kill just 
 to stay out of serious trouble. Anything can happen out here. 
  Criminal mind or not, Grand Theft Auto 3 seems to uncontrollably force people into testing their 
 limits of decency. This third version of the game has finally made it to the PC and offers players 
 a hug 3-D world in which virtually any criminal act is allowed. Players are free to steal cars, 
 beat up the locals, pick up prostitutes, or simply roam the 3 islands of the enormous city causing 
 mischief and mayhem. Although, this does not all come with out it's price. As your crimes start 
 piling up, so does the hunt for you by the law. Police, SWAT teams, FBI, all the way up to the 
 army trying to bring you to justice. Getting away from all these law enforcement agencies is half 
 the fun, the narrow escapes and chases are what Grand Theft Auto 3 is all about.
  GTA3 has more than 50 vehicles from high class sports cars to ice cream and fire trucks. 70+ missions 
 that include limitless side objectives/jobs that gives players so much freedom of game-play that 
 it cannot be matched by any other action game. This freedom of GTA3 is what makes it so dynamic 
 and addicting to play. With countless open-ended approaches to missions the replay-ability of GTA3 
 is incredible. Stealing cars, hijacking fire trucks to stomp out fires, taxis, or busting fellow 
 criminals in order to climb the criminal rank. These scenarios are just a few features that make 
 this game one of a kind. Let it be noted that the violence in this game is over the top and excessive. 
 GTA3 is well dissevering of it's 17+ rating. This game is definitely NOT for children, and the 
 violence is what makes me give this game 4 stars instead of 5. System Requirements: Minimum:
  450Mhz Processor
  96MB RAM
  16MB Graphics Card
  
  Recommended:
  800Mhz Processor
  128 
 MB RAM
  32 MB Graphics Card 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bennyb808
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  When i was just a wee nipper i loved playing all my classic games, Mario Bros, Mortal Combat, Bad 
 Dudes Vs Dragon Ninja and so forth. I couldn't wait for the next new game to come out or to get 
 to the local cinema with a plethora of arcade machines. I would look out for how the games graphics 
 had improved, or a new style in gameplay had advanced. I remember being amazed at the graphics 
 in Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and new gameplay with a four player layout in the arcade. At my 
 age it all seemed great it was all unique and intresting. As i grew older i realized how all the 
 games i'd be playing weren't to dis similar from each other. The way in which many different companies 
 would make almost replicas of the same game. It became harder and harder to find games i like playing. 
 Every so often a game would come out that i loved playing. These were always games with a new style 
 of play. Original games that held my attention. Games that were willing to push the boundaries.
 
  
  One of the games that caught my eye a little later on in life was Carmagedon. I first played this 
 game on my Pentium 1 100mhz and it was awful. Not because i didn't like the game but of the terrible 
 slow down on my computer. The one thing that did catch me was the way in which you could drive 
 anywhere in the city. At the time it seemed amazing to me how large the game felt because of this. 
 You could drive in to carparks, up into buildings and roof tops. I loved the concept for this at 
 thought this is the way to go forward in gaming. Up until the release of Grand Theft Auto 3 i had 
 played many but no where near enough great games. My favourites such as Doom, Civilization, Pro 
 Evolution Soccer (PS1) , Command and Conquer, Gran Turismo amongst a few others, all innovators 
 in gaming. All these games even Pro Evolution Soccer (my favourite multiplayer game) are special 
 but are what they are. Pro Evo is a soccer game, Gran Turismo is a driving game, Civ is a stratergy 
 game and Doom is a shooter. When Grand Theft Auto 1 came out it was all so a groundbreaker i loved 
 the idea behind the game. Being able to drive anywhere. But never thought the game could go 3-D 
 so soon. When Grand Theft Auto 3 came out i was totally blown away. 'How did they do that', i thought 
 to myself. How am i ever going to be able to stay awake along enough to explore the whole city. 
 I could not believe how they had crammed all that game onto one disc, amazing! Like with Carmagedon 
 it was a big city again but i can get out of my car and do virtually anything i can dream of. this 
 was the game i had been longing for. Thank You Rockstar, Thank You again. It has it all driving, 
 walking, talking, shooting, laughing, cryng, stories, plotlines, and don't even get me started 
 about the music, the best ever in all senses of the game. Sorry i should stop, but i think its 
 thats good. People may say it can be improved on but this is how to go about it, all that effort 
 by the makers of the game shows all others they are the new GODS of game making, and long shall 
 they remain.
  
  Where they are going with the new era of next gen gaming and the new GTA PS3 can only be a joy 
 to wait for. This is me i hope, singing out for now, Peasoupist 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hutapamo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2006 1:06 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 3 is a quite an addictive game. You can pretty much do anything you like that's 
 what I like about it. Grand Theft Auto Three is a cool game when I got I did not know what to do 
 but then after a while I got the hang of it. I also like to download cars boats aeroplanes ships 
 karts and motorbikes to put them on the game. I am addicted to grand theft auto series and I intend 
 on getting all the grand theft auto series and I mean it, believe me. Please write a message, if 
 you are also grand theft auto addict please write me a message some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jelle_schepens
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 30, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Grand theft auto III
  hmmm... it's been a long time this game's on the market, but don't consider this game as a piece 
 of cr*p though.
  Because if you love vice city but your played it for hours, you might try this one, it resembles 
 a lot like Vice city, but other missions, weapons, cars, ........
  some nice gameplay, like we're used to of rockstar, it's a production of the north division.
 
  you can choose, play the game like you should, do the missions, get rich, unlock the whole place 
 or you can just relax en kill people, steal cars, brutally overrun people with a car stolen froma 
 man you just killed with a flametrhower,
  or you can always follow the rules, but then you have to buy a driving license rom or something 
 but not GTA III, great fun it's stupid you only have a few saving points, and you can not save 
 during missions, but they don't last hours or something, enjoy.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teron678
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 2, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  since i got this over 4 years ago i just got to love it and it just grew on me. i never get bored 
 playing it. it's just so entertainging. tommy vercetti and the rest of characters are just amazing. 
 in my opinion the best thing about this game that puts it higher than gta v. c and gta s. a is the 
 graphics. this game has the best graphics i've ever seen. it's so realistic. this is a game that 
 would never die out in my life. my children and grandchildren i know for a fact will enjoying playing 
 this. even i though gaming would be at a higher level than it is today. it doesn't matter they'll 
 love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: britich
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 26, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  el juego es buenisimo. buena grafica buena jugabilidad y todo eso. adictivo al 100 por ciento .espero 
 jugar pronto al vice city o al san andreas ya que me ahn comentado que sobrepasan la calidad del 
 gta 3 en todos los aspectos. escribo desde chile donde se juega mucho este jueo. existen varias comunidades 
 con respecto al tema asi que demas esta decir que el juego es una revolucion en todo ambito. vale 
 lapena gastarse unos morlacos para poder adquirirlo y vivir la experiencia de gta 3 asi que no 
 duden en comprarlo para que no se queden abajo de la micro y se unan a la gran comunidad mundial 
 de gta 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DGDFDGFBBYT
Rating: 4.3
Date: Sep 9, 2006 6:55 am PT
Review:  Now this game i played it and it frezzes sometime and its slow and sometime i jump i lost health. 
 i tough this grand theft anuto game would be better but i dont know i bote this game for nothing 
 its cheap but its all boring theres good looking cars. and the graphics are bad the person that 
 your playing in the career dosnt talk that much and its maybe better on the PS2 but on xbox its 
 dissapointing. But there some good mission and some that are bad but its pretty good game but its 
 not worth it. you wont play for more then 10 hours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Percypoo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 2, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  As a proud owner of of GTA 3 and Vice City, and borrower of San Andreas, I can easily say that, 
 despite this game being released on the PC over 4 years ago GTA 3 is a game that all action games 
 should be measured up to. If your just getting into GTA, then I highly recommend you start here.
 
  
  This was probably the first game ever created where you can roam around an entire city in full 
 3D so back in 2001 this was an extremely exiting concept.
  
  Left to bleed in the gutter by your cheating ex-girlfriend, your character is arrested by the LCPD, 
 (Liberty City Police Department) . But the police convoy is ground to a halt when your gang destroys 
 the bridge that the convoy is crossing. You are rescued from the cops and start your quest for 
 revenge. Along the way you will partake in gang wars, assasinate your rival leaders and elude Liberty 
 cIty's harsh and reckless police force. You will soon open up the other island when the bridge 
 is mended and then unlock the final section of the city.
  
  The game pits you in many different situations, somtimes you will be exchanging fire with you're 
 enemy on lonely back streets, or chasing your prey in a wild and destructive car chase. You may 
 have to use a sniper rifle to pick of your enemies or shoot barrels of explosives to blow your 
 foe's to pieces. The action is always intense and thrilling, but you'll ocassionaly encounter quirky 
 ai problems, such as citizens running in terror, and repeatedly bashing there heads against walls 
 instead of fleeing in the right direction. On one mission, you must lead a group of gangsters into 
 a trap and making them follow you in their cars, but you have guide them so they don't run into 
 someone's back garden and keep bashing into their walls, or getting stuck between a nearly vertical 
 hill and a 6 ft wall. These problems thankfully only appear on a few missions. You will be briefed 
 by whoever your working for on each mission. The acting is great, but your character never talks 
 so you hear one sided conversations. This means that everyting is straight to the point.
  
  I pesume everone on this website has a good enough PC to auto detect this game on top textures, 
 but the screen resoloution will obviouly depend on you're screen size. Buildindg, viechles and 
 people are well animated for the games time, but the same character models for the city folk are 
 reusused over and over again. This means you see massive groups of exactly the same person. They 
 just really should have made more character models. If you turn of the frame limiter on the display 
 setup, all movement will be much smoother, but the textures will sometime appear completely washed 
 out in a certain area and then appear compleatly sharp as usual, this probably happens to keep 
 smooth runnining at certain spots when the game goes a tiny bit slowly. This said, the games graphics 
 bring LC to life.
  
  Great acting, radio music and ambients. That's the sound of GTA 3. There are all sorts of music 
 stations, from rap to opera and a very funny talk station.
  
  This great classic is worth the budget price of 10 pounds for GTA beginners, or fans who haven't 
 played it yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andilosha
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 1, 2006 5:51 am PT
Review:  This game didn't give me an great impression and since I had played Vice City first this game was 
 not as good as Vice City although this is a great game. The city is well designed, the characters 
 are fine but maybe my version was wrong and I couldn't find a way to show the world map... in other 
 words this game has many details which aren't as good as at the later Grand Theft Auto games. But 
 this game was just revolutionary. Even though GTA evolved the genre and ,many things are with the 
 same style! To really enjoy this game at max. i suggest not to play neither Vice City or San Andreas 
 before you try the great classic GTA3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knightsfan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 25, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  No joke i am not a PC gamer but i bought it at the budget price of AU$10. It is so much easier 
 to shoot and control using the mouse. It is now one of my favourite PC games and i love it to death. 
 I often chose to play this instead of San andreas on the Playstation 2. The graphics are pretty 
 ordinary compared to new games but good enough to enjoy the experience. Now i am going to trade 
 in my other Grand theft auto games on my Ps2 to buy the PC counterparts. Seriously I h8 playing 
 PC games But this is FANTASTIC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tserdoc
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 20, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  I just cant get the patch update, it tells me that it is an unknown version of GTA 3, what can 
 i do to get the patch update? or does anyone have a copy of the GTA sanandreas game? My walmart 
 doesnt have it yet..... : ( . Or does anyone know where i can purchase a full game download of this 
 particular game? Anyways.... I like GTA3, I am now going to purchase GTA Vice City and see what 
 it is like...... anybody have any opinions on how it is like or anything message me please? I have 
 been on this site for quite awhile, lost touch with a bunch of people, but now I am back and am 
 glad to be back on here for game updates and such, lost my laptop, so now all i have is my desktop 
 to play my games off of. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ironman182
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  My brother came back from Europe years ago and he brought this game back. I played it and i was 
 completly hooked. It was one of the funnest games i ever played. But then they made others after 
 it. They where even better then this one! The driving was fun along with the rampages and shooting. 
 I think this was also the first one of the series that was 3d and it was great as i keep on mentioning. 
 I loved driving and making awsome stunts and like flying in the air with my car. Joy rides where 
 fun. And i remeber this weird thing where you can pick up a hooker in your car then go somewhere 
 deserted and watch the car move up and down. I kept laughing at that because you can move the camera 
 and see nothing happening. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdulrahiem
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 7, 2006 3:40 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are amazing, the controls are a easy to master, the game plays like a dream and the 
 plot actually makes sense. GTA 3 has to be one of the best games EVER. This is such a fun game. 
 Plenty of gory gripping rampaging and rushing missions. You run around the three islands doing 
 jobs for people eg. having to kill people. The radio stations have amateurish music but are presented 
 with great style (best radio station: Chatterbox) . There is also a good cast of voice actors, who 
 really give their all to well written dialogue. The story has its shortcomings and lacks depth 
 but is mostly enjoyable.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dhruv_84
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 26, 2006 3:20 am PT
Review:  this was the 1st of the series which i played and when i had bought the game, i didnt know what 
 to expect but once i started playing i was so *INTO* the game. the characters were well written 
 and the fm stations were amazing with some funny yet annoying adverts but it all just added to 
 the fun of the game. despite the new gta's comin out, i still think this game was awesome in its 
 storyline. if there werent any missions in the game, only exploring the city was well worth the 
 money.
  
  its a "must have played kinda" game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ubeyone
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 19, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  This game is an absoloute one in a kind. 
  
  Graphics-10/10 The cars might need a bit more detail, but the city and the civilians and almost 
 everything else is 'EXCELLENT'.
  
  Gameplay-10/10 the camera views are good. So much fun zooming around the streets in an Esperanto 
 or any other car. Or if you like the on-foot aproach be my guest. On or off foot the gameplay is 
 'SUPERB'.
  
  Sound 8/10 not one of the games strong points but still 'GREAT'. Chatterbox is my favourite.
 
  
  Value 10/10 i bought this game for 3 Money well spent. The average amount you should pay for a 
 game like this somewhere along the lines of (or$ or ) 3-20.
  
  Some of the missions are quite lame but others rule! If only this game had Multi-player, That would 
 be even better.
   for  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-M-INDIAN18
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 13, 2006 12:05 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto franchise, a series marred by controversies for its violent content right from 
 the day of its instigation, has been perhaps one of the most successful series ever to have been 
 made. Though heavily criticized by the non-gaming community, it has been blessed with one of the 
 most frenetic fan-following in gaming history. GTA lll is the first Grand Theft Auto game made 
 in 3d. Being a new-comer to the series, heres my take on the most controversial game franchise.
 
  
  GTA lll for the PC is a direct port of the Playstation 2 version, with a couple of new features 
 thrown in for pc gamers. However, these new features are few, but who wants more when you have 
 a great game to play!!!
  
  GTA lll, in fact the series itself, is all about breaking the law and fulfilling your wants through 
 committing crimes. It is one of the most violent games of its time, and it still is. In this game, 
 you will have to kill, rob, kidnap, rig cars with bombs, do jobs for other gang bosses, stalk and 
 kill innocent by-standers, crush cars, run-over pedestrians while being chased by police cars and 
 choppers, and much-much more. The list of things that you can do in this game is endless. This 
 game will leave you with one of the most memorable and crude gaming experience of your life.
  
  In this game, you play the character of a young small-time thug who gets betrayed by his girl 
 friend during a bank robbery job. They sentence you to a jail term and transport you in a van, 
 when it gets attacked by another gang who want to free one of theirs. You too, as a result, escape 
 but with a new accomplice. This thug takes you to another, and one-by-one, you meet new gang bosses. 
 Each of them has some jobs for you. And slowly, you hit the big time in the crime-infested province 
 of Liberty City.
  
  The city itself is divided into three islands connected through bridges, underground subways, and 
 the likes. These islands are Portland District, Staunton Island & Shoreside Vale. You start off 
 in one of the islands while the others are locked. You unlock the other islands one-by-one by completing 
 the missions of the story mode of your current place of business. These missions themselves are 
 of a wide variety ensuring that you never get bored of doing them.
  
  The game-play of GTA lll is simply amazing, and is of a diverse nature. It involves a lot of running, 
 gunning, driving vehicles such as cars and steamboats, and in certain missions, even flying!!! 
 There is so much to do in this game, and you wont be able to stop until youre done with all of 
 them. Three huge islands, with many bosses and still more jobs to be done for them. You will be 
 required to kidnap others for bosses, murder, rob, retrieve files from the police, snipe other 
 bosses, race, blow up cars and shops, bully pedestrians and shop-owners, kill witnesses, carjack, 
 hijack, escape on a steamboat, and these are just a few of the many exciting things that you can 
 do in this game.
  
  Besides the main story mode, the game also has many side-missions for you. You can carjack any 
 cars, trucks, ambulances, etc. that you see on the road. When you get into a taxi, ambulance, police 
 car, or a fire-truck, you can press a button to start the special side-missions. This involves 
 saving people by driving ailing people to the hospital in your ambulance, nabbing gangsters as 
 a policeman, driving passengers in your taxi to earn money, and controlling fire in the city through 
 your fire-truck.
  
  Besides these special vehicle missions, there are still more things to be done in the game. There 
 are many places where you can perform Unique Jumps, collect hidden packages, supply cars to the 
 import-export garage, blow up specific gang-cars through remote-controlled mini-car bombs, do off-road 
 missions (drive through checkpoints within time limit) , and do Rampages-destroying a minimum amount 
 of something or somebody. All of these non-story mode missions unlock something for you. Most of 
 these side-missions are extremely enjoyable and fun to do. After all, how cool is it to drive a 
 remote controlled mini-car bomb under a real car on the road and pressing the trigger at the exact 
 moment??? Boom!!!
  
  The citys very own pedestrian also provide loads of fun to the game-play too. You can simply shoot 
 or run-over them for money and weapons or simply for the fun of it!!! You can hear their funny 
 one-liners and if you roam around the place, you can even see and hear a few of them exchanging 
 abuses and punches. They even, at times, involve themselves in shoot-outs.
  
  The game-play also has a unique feature of the star-system. When and if you create enough carnage 
 by shooting innocent people or blowing up shops and cars, your star rating goes up. You can get 
 up to six stars at any given time. Even showing guns to cops get you a star. With each star comes 
 a whole baggage of troubles for you. The police wont give a damn when you have one or two stars. 
 But with each additional star, they will increase their forces to bring you down. The police will 
 come after you with full force & all its heavy vehicles when you get to six stars. It will block 
 the roads for you with its bigger vehicles and try their best to take you down. Just to have them 
 following you at full force is more than enough for an adrenaline rush!!! But you can get the stars 
 down by grabbing bribes which are littered all over the city.
  
  The game also has another unique feature. You can never die in the game. Whenever you go down in 
 combat or when the police capture you, you simply re-spawn in front of the hospital or the police 
 station, your health regenerated to the maximum. But, you lose all the weapons that you would have 
 accumulated before. You can also find health packs littered all over the city, if youre running 
 low on health.
  
  The weapons in this game, too, are varied. You can shoot people with the not so powerful weapons 
 such as pistols, snipe them, blow them up with grenades or launchers, or burn them with Molotov. 
 This game even has a Flame-thrower, which has been fading rapidly in todays shooters. The flame-thrower 
 has been implemented well into the scheme of things, and is not there just for show. It has been 
 made into an integral part for the success of certain missions, and looks really nice and violent!!! 
 Overall though, the game has regular range that can be found in most shooters, barring the flame-thrower.
 
  
  The cars are of a varied nature ranging from normal cars to racing cars to government vehicles 
 such as police cars-all six of them, ambulance, fire-trucks, bus, etc. All the vehicles in this 
 game range from slow to fast, small to big, weak to powerful, etc. The game has only one flyable 
 vehicle, Dodo, which is extremely difficult to master. It throws a different kind of challenge 
 to the game-play. All the vehicles in this game look & feel really good.
  
  The control system of this game isnt much of a problem, and you wont find it very hard to get 
 into the game. The driving part will take a bit of getting used, and you will after a couple of 
 petty missions, get the hang of it alright. The features are nicely implemented into this port 
 of a Playstation 2 game. You can also change the control set up for the game to any keys you want 
 to.
  
  The graphics in this game, though out-dated by todays standards, look nice and detailed. The city 
 looks populated and detailed. It has everything that a citys supposed to have, from hospitals 
 to police stations to import-export harbor to shops, saloons, residents, many-many buildings, subways, 
 railways, metro, and the rests. And all of it looks detailed and real!!! The city even has its 
 own sex clubs and parlors!!! Most of the features of the city have been made interactive through 
 missions that you are asked to do. The city always looks buzzing with activities, but goes into 
 sleep at night, just like the real world. Its a beauty to behold, the sunrise and sunset in this 
 game!!!
  
  Weapons, weapon-reloading animation, the explosions, the lightning & weather effect, and the solid 
 car designing, all lend themselves to creating some nice atmosphere in the game and make the game-play 
 a lot more fun.
  
  But, the game has some serious graphical issues. When driving a fast car, the textures often take 
 a few seconds too late to draw properly, which causes you to fail a few timed missions. It causes 
 some serious irritation to the player, as its not too nice to look at either. The character models, 
 too, are not up to the mark. Some of the characters look a bit too crude and bland. They are not 
 all that well detailed, and are far from realistic. Overall, the graphics are good and bolster 
 the atmosphere of the game.
  
  The sound department of this game scores highly, the developers have done an amazing job with it. 
 The city is alive with the daily buzz of a city life. Liberty City feels so vibrant that you just 
 marvel at the genius of the developers. The pedestrians will hurl funny or abusive one-liners at 
 you if you get in their way. The sound of gun-shots, grenades, blowing up of cars, screeches of 
 cars, sounds of thunder & lightning, etc., all lend an aura of realism to the game. The voice-acting 
 of the game is also top-notch. The voice-over actors have done a commendable job of portraying 
 the emotions of anger, happiness, malice, etc. in a realistic manner.
  
  The music of the game has been done with a view of the hectic life-style of a city life. It blends 
 well with the atmosphere of the game. The game even has its own radio FM channels!!! You can listen 
 to nine different radio channels while driving any vehicles in the game. And each of the channels 
 caters to different music genres, which have been nicely coordinated. One of the channels has funny 
 commercials, and it plays hosts to a daily talk show, where callers from different walk of life 
 call and talk to the host. This talk show is funny as hell, and you really marvel at the idiocy 
 of the citizens of Liberty City. Besides, there is also a MP3 channel, where you can listen to 
 any MP3 file in your computer. This feature alone gives this games music a limitless opportunity 
 to bowl you over.
  
  This game also has a statistics table, which gives you an extremely detailed analysis of everything 
 that you have done in the game. It also gives you an idea of everything that is still left for 
 you to do. This game is really long, and it can easily take you over a month-and-a-half to beat 
 100%. Besides, one of the mods lets you play this game online, against other players. But, very 
 few people play it online now-a-days. Still, this games worth every penny of its price, which 
 is not much these days.
  
  Overall, I think the game is incredibly fun and addictive. One should definitely give it a go for 
 its diverse game-play and the dark humour of the game. Come on people, its really easy on the pockets 
 in this day and age!!!
  
  Story: 8
  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 10
  Replayability: 9 
  Final Score_-_- 8
  ================================
  Signing off from 
 the land of Liberty City!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: relset
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 12, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  So much time has passed since this game was released, so I will talk about it if it was released 
 yesterday, so the date now is 21st may 2002. I can remember that i`ve purchased my new PC sometimes 
 in october 2002 so I`m unable to play it in that moment and I cryed when I see how smootly runs 
 on my friend`s PC`s. But when I`m able to run it at home I spent hours days or even months playing 
 it. I don`t know how was the GTA`s on consoles becouse I`m a pc maniac but I can say that this 
 one was the most addictive and attractive. I`ve finished it several times collecting all 100 hidden 
 packages, and completeting all those events that appears when you picked up those items with skull 
 marks on them (sorry I forgot the name) . I like the look of the cars and the grafics, the only 
 bad thing about this game was that contains a couple of bugs that never was fixed. Rockstar do 
 not keep their games up to date, they do not polish their games, maybe the reason is that their 
 games are too big and awesome...
  By the way I found in GTA 3, great potential, very enjoyable and addictive gamplay with lots of 
 fun (and anger) when I`m unable to complete missions even at the 100th time... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuipstoel
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 25, 2006 6:18 am PT
Review:  This game is better maked than Grand Theft Auto 1 and 2. Becouse the other games got bad Graphics 
 and when you played the game you saw it from a helicopter camera. This is 3d maked and that makes 
 the very cool. The weapons makes this game cooler. Ak-47, M4, Micro-SMG, and much much more. The 
 cars in this game are not real cars but you reconise the with real cars. The missions are not so 
 though but they shell get though. You Got a few gangs who make your life difficult.
  But if you dony shoot them they dont shoot you. You will be working in one of those gangs. The 
 famili Leone. That is a old sicilian famili who live on a cliff on the first island The name and 
 house make you think on the movie The Godfather. A good game the graphics are not so good but the 
 weapons makes that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxgangsta
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 22, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  So when i got gta 3 , it was few weeks ago , i thought that this will be something like vice city 
 ,but its harder and the character dont even talk !!! thats realy dissapointing but missions are 
 more exiting than in vice , but one thing realy is bad that there isnt no MAP! how could that be 
 , maybe i need to find a place were i can repaint my car when im runnin from cops , well i gues 
 game is old kinda so it would be not very cool to blame the makers of this game , liberty city 
 is very good made , big ,streets are real... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwnr
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 20, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Please do not send me private messages or emails complaining about this review unless you have 
 a constructive comment. I don't give a crap about your opinions and you don't have to either. I 
 will simply report your message as offensive and you will probably receive a warning. 
  
  First off, I got this game just today. I played it for a while. The first thing I noticed were 
 the pretty nice graphics, at least for it's generation. They suck now. When I actually got a chance 
 to move around within the game, it seemed too "small" to me. It's just a feeling that I get when 
 I play certain games, I guess it's because the field of vision is too big/small. I'm just used 
 to Source games. Anyways, this was a lot worse (I'm not sure if that's the right word) than San 
 Andreas. When you shoot someone in the head, it just pops off while tons of blood spurts out and 
 the victim apparently remains standing for a second or two. The environment just doesn't have the 
 look or feel of San Andreas. There's no topographical map (except for the radar) to help you pick 
 the best route to go somewhere. Also, when you drive the cars, you can't freely look around. All 
 those elements combined lowered the Gameplay to 4 out of a possible of 10. For the graphics, there 
 is too much unrealism. Fires look like volcano eruptions. The textures are too "classic." The outdoors 
 seems indoors. And the physics also are not as good as I'm used to. Rockets travel too fast. Molotov 
 cocktails spread out flames over an area that is too wide. Lots of things are wrong with this game. 
 
  
  So, the bottom line is, this game is for extreme GTA fans or old-school gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AINISA
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 18, 2006 12:49 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best ever made and i would heartily recommend it too anyone. I feel the 
 rating is to high though and it should only be "Teen" I also wish the character would talk and 
 have a name but other than that it is the best. The story is good and gives you a great time playing 
 its incredibly open ended so you can play the story if you feel like it. I just played the story 
 to get new territory so do whatever you like. i believe that anyone should be able to grasp this 
 game. nobody should miss out on the amazing story, gameplay , gore , and all. I hope i have made 
 my point.
  
  I giw 8.4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLB2
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 7, 2006 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Original and well story based game. After all the action games this goes in my top ten. First of 
 all, its originallity of genre its set in. This game has its go anywhere do anything feeling. You 
 could do anything without actually doind the missions. You have at least a 2 day length of continuous 
 gameplay and play again after some rest because of the do anything go anywhere feeling including 
 the side missions. I'm playing the whole game the second time. So, I tottaly recommend this game 
 to anyone who likes the action genre. The mission are amazingly fun as i said one of the greatest 
 games of all time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kicken
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 31, 2006 4:48 pm PT
Review:  why do you think that Im reviewing a game that came out 4 years ago on PC? because my friends, 
 GTA 3 helped future game designers, showing them how a free-roaming game is done. What I mean by 
 that it that gta 3 is so expansive, has 3 enormous cities, all closely connected, with tons of 
 story modes, but also little side quests as well. Thats why the gameplay is so great, you can do 
 all the missions, but you can also easily go around killing anyone you want and run from the cops.
 
  Graphic wise the game is 4 years old, and still are up to par in my eyes, running it a full graphics 
 on widescreen....
  and speaking of widescreen, alert to you pc gamers with widescreen: if you use the standard controls 
 with mouse and keyboard (for 3 and VC) and have the aimer, the aimer is off a little left, and 
 its really frustrating. luckily, if your like me and have a controller, you can use that, Thats 
 why I docked it only one point, but if you have a normal monitor then its a 10 for gameplay. All 
 and all, GTA 3 helped make games what they are today, everyone now wants a free roaming game where 
 they can do anything they want, and more and more games are now trying to achieve this. and not 
 have such a linear feel to it, THANK YOU GRAND THEFT AUTO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sda100175
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 8, 2006 8:37 am PT
Review:  Let me say this first: compared objectively, the two sequels to GTAIII (Vice City and San Andreas) 
 would recieve better scores. They add to the core gameplay developed for GTAIII with more stuff.
 
  
  But if you take all 3 games and where they compare the day they were released, GTAIII is the revolution, 
 and the other 2 are just evolution. Never before had a video game offered such an immersive, 3D 
 sandbox environment and let you do whatever you wanted in it. The shear number of clones of this 
 gameplay style is the proof : the sincerest form of flattery is imitation.
  
  If you didn't know, GTAIII puts you in the shoes of a convict that catches a lucky break on his 
 way to jail, and now has to work his way up in the underworld of a living, breathing city modeled 
 on modern day New York. Along the way, you run missions for various bosses, play cabbie, cop, fireman, 
 and ambulance driver, drive a wide variety of cars and trucks, shoot pedestrians in the head from 
 atop parking garages, and pretty much anything else you can think of! It's not unusual to spend 
 hours in between missions exploring, or just causing havoc and then trying to avoid the police. 
 The fun factor is insanely high.
  
  It's the city itself that makes the game. Liberty City feels just like a modern day urban environment. 
 It has distinct neighborhoods (Red-light district, Chinatown, Skyscrapers in downtown, even college 
 neighborhoods) with distinct inhabitants and "feel". The gameplay on the PC is excellent, with 
 a FPS-style WASD+Mouse setup, and driving with the keyboard works fine. Flying the plane is a pain, 
 but fortunately is a very small part of the game.
  
  This is the game that broke open the mold of "sandbox" titles, where you are given an immersive 
 environment and set free to do whatever you want. Vice City and San Andreas expand this formula, 
 but this game created it. It will go down as one of the most influential games of this decade, 
 and maybe ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 23, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 3 is a great modern, rpg-ish, shooter thing. I have enjoyed countless hours messing 
 around killing innocent people, driving cars off jumps, blowing up police cars with rockets, the 
 list goes on. Just get ready to be amazed when u get this game. Its really worth the money.
  Now, gfx are good on computer and sfx are decent. The story line is good and keeps the player interested. 
 However its not really all important to finish it once u get to the third island. Everything else 
 seems good too. There is no multiplayer unless u get multi-theft auto download, and even then its 
 not really that great.
  but
  besides that, the game rocks! its defiently one worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilresident666
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 16, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  
  Grand theft auto 3 is freakin unbelievable. Until now i never thought a game like this was possible. 
 Grand theft auto 3 has great graphics and only minor pop-up issues , yet you can go anywhere and 
 kill anyone and steal any car and blow up any car. The first 2 Grand theft autos sucked as did 
 the london directors cut thing, But Grand theft auto 3 takes the series from a overhead view and 
 into a fully 3d living world. It is amazing. The game is one of the first to have a truly great 
 soundtrack and a (fake) radio feature. I loved going threw the radio stations listening to radio 
 djs talk about nonsense. This game is easily worth its 20 dollar asking price (if you dont already 
 have it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soccerguy919
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 15, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  INTRO
  Grand Theft Auto 3 is, as its 3 indicates in its title, a sequel to a long series of car theft 
 games of old. This one broke away with its 3D look. It hit the shelves and the sales have only 
 slightly slowed down because of controversy with the new San Andreas sequel. However here is the 
 game that put Rockstar Games on the spot! This game is so cool. This is a game that you could play 
 for hours, beat it, and then pick up again later and still enjoy every part of it. This is rare 
 for games of any genre. The game has many aspects that make it such a players choice. The aspects 
 are the graphics, the sound, the gameplay, and the story that make it an awesome game.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Now the graphics today are a little scratchy but still tolerable. The look of the game 
 is very good. The city actually looks like a real life city, but with so many cities in the world 
 it's not to hard to find a model out there. The cars are modeled very well as are the buildings. 
 The background to the game is very detailed and very satisfying to the eye. What compliments the 
 background is the weather. The weather is very authentic and can be distracting, like any kind 
 of weather in real life. The cuts to the movie scenes are very well done and still look incredible. 
 Sometimes the scene and the audio do not line up but thats only on occasion. The graphics do alright 
 when shooting things and blowing them up but the coolest graphic when driving is the skid marks, 
 a very nice touch. Another nice feature of the graphics for the cars is the destruction of them. 
 A fun thing to do is beat a car to the point of explosion, getting out of it and seeing your handy 
 work. Overall the graphics help the game along.
  
  SOUND
  The sound in Grand Theft Auto 3 is very... hip. I say that because you can choose about any radio 
 station in the game you want, while you're a car of course. It's just not as cool as Vice City 
 with its actual songs of the era. Anyway the music is a nice cut of songs and the quality is alright. 
 The sound effects are what make the game fun though. You can't tell that it's no funning around 
 in those cars and hearing the engine rev and the tires squeal. Not to mention the sound of your 
 weapons going of. Of course along with realistic sound goes the cartoon sound of hitting people 
 or shooting them. Overall the sound mix is excellent for this game.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Grand Theft Auto 3 plays very nicely. On the PC I suggest getting a controller with as many buttons 
 as a PS2 controller has just so the transition from PS2 to PC is not very difficult. This is a 
 console game and therefore you need a controller to real enjoy this game, in my opinion. Driving 
 in this game can be very fun as long as you find a car that suites your preference. My favorite 
 car has always been the Banshee because of its ability to skid around easily when the handbrake 
 is applied. The running around part of the game on foot can be dangerous as the game progresses. 
 On that note beware of the mob as you go on playing the game. The jobs that you receive as the 
 game goes on get progressively harder and harder. The game is expecting you to get used to the 
 lay of the land and your ability to kill and drive, so you'll need practice. Getting money is obtained 
 by either finishing a job or as easy as stealing a car in the game just make sure you stay clear 
 of cops while you steal things. Speaking of cops, they are the one thing in the game keeping you 
 from going trigger happy on just anyone, so respect them. I have found that if you shoot gang members, 
 for the most part, cops don't care how many you kill, so you can go crazy on those guys. With that 
 said the game plays very smoothly and is very enjoyable.
  
  STORY
  The story is nothing spectacular but it's enough to keep you interested and keep you going back 
 to the people that offer you jobs. Basically you are a grade "A" criminal that is betrayed by your 
 own "friends" and almost killed by a shot to the neck that leaves you mute. You're the only one 
 that goes to jail for the heist but luckily you're sprung after a gang wreaks a patty wagon you're 
 in during transfer between jails. That's when all the fun begins. You're now a free man able to 
 take any contract offered to you, whether it is an assassination or as simple delivering a package. 
 Either way you make money and gain trust. The story is alright and allows you freedom to roam around 
 the city so it's almost perfect for this type of game.
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS
  Grand Theft Auto 3 is in my opinion the best out of the series. It's a wonderful game to play. 
 If you do find yourself getting bored of the generic cars there are mods that you can download 
 that allows the cars to become BMW's, Lamborghinis, and such. So don't think the game is dead just 
 because you've beat it over a dozen times. Try the mods and continue to enjoy the game. Go out 
 and Have Fun!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 7, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 3 was the beginning of an era of Sandbox games. The game was awesome and still 
 is. Review time:
  
  Graphics are still really good, and look better on the PC then the Xbox and PS2 versions. The graphics 
 were pretty good but Vice City and San Andreas did this dept. better.
  
  Controls are pretty good on the PC as well, The PS2 version did this department better, but The 
 PC get this job done. Gun aiming is better on PC.
  
  Music was ok as well. Since they had no licenses back then from artists, the games music was superb. 
 
  
  Pros:
  - The beginning of the Sandbox era
  - The game is complex still
  - loads of missions
  - aiming and graphics are better on PC
  
  Cons:
  - other controls 
 are bad on PC
  - began the sandbox era
  - story is slow 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f_muzaka
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 6, 2006 4:41 am PT
Review:  Although I have played the game in 2001 when it first came out, I decided to write this review 
 as a personal tribute of mine to the producers of the game. Causing a revolution in many fields 
 of game playing, GTA III opened the door for a new kind of games, not in the profesional side but 
 even in the quality setting standards regarding the game world.
  It is a definite must have to play, to experience, to value and to collect. A priced possession 
 in every real player's rack of games. The intriguing story line and the side missions will never 
 let you get bored and even after playing the game for a zillion hours you will still find a new 
 thing to do in the game. 
  Thank you Rockstar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: e_dubau
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 4, 2006 8:55 am PT
Review:  I remember when the game apeared.... EVERYONE wanted it. I read previews and saw images, but I 
 hadn't had the game. When I finnally had the game, I played it for like four whole months. Not 
 only missions, but I had fun destroing the cops and killing people. It amazed me through it's unique 
 graphics for that year, the radios in the car and the fine controlling. If you had not finished 
 GTA3 or hadn't even played it, it means that you are a NOOB!!!
  
  Grand Theft Auto 3 is a game that MUST be played!!!
  
  If you had not played GTA3, it means 
 also that you don't even know what a gamer is, NOOB !!!
  If you had not played GTA3, it means also that you don't even know what a gamer is, NOOB !!!
 
  If you had not played GTA3, it means also that you don't even know what a gamer is, NOOB !!!
 
  If you had not played GTA3, it means also that you don't even know what a gamer is, NOOB !!!
 
  If you had not played GTA3, it means also that you don't even know what a gamer is, NOOB !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2006 1:55 am PT
Review:  The game give you the feel of freedome and you feel like your playing a simulation. It gets you 
 addicted for days on end. The games story is awesome give you the feeling that your playing a movie.
 
  
  GOOD: Great graphics great gameplay... Good value one of the first game that I have played of this 
 type and on of the best Action Adventure games there is.
  
  BAD: The bad is that the game has some broken parts and the story is broken a bit. 
  
  Overall 
 it's one of the best adventure games, to come out at the time, Rockstar has done a great job in 
 developing a awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjj13
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is real fun. Let's start out with the missions. The missions are real fun. Some of them 
 could be hard, while some of them you will fly through. Grand Theft Auto 3 Offers a poor atmophere. 
 It brings the game to life. For the graphics made back then, the are really good. The side jobs 
 get boring quick. I think they shouldn't be in this game. If you buy this game get it for pc. You 
 would be able to download or make mods or even play online with MTA. I hoped this helped you buy 
 this game! If it did please recomend this review.
  
  -jjj13 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tears_in_hell
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is true genius, not only is the gameplay unmatched, but the game itself began an era,
 
  
  People have forgotten this game, now the days of, san andreas, but this gaem, THIS GAME!, tis the 
 benchmark.
  
  when this gam, e out one of my friends had it on his PS2, i unfortunately did not own a ps2, so 
 i could not enjoy the delights. It is the SOLE reason i bought a ps2, since then ofcourse many 
 good games have spouted forth, but many more AWFUL games have also ejected from the gob of awful 
 game desighners.
  
  I had never even seen a screenshot - and then one day!
  
  I managed to get my hands on a ps2, oh joy. Journeyed home did i, enter thine room of slob-most. 
 And then it happenned
  
  I enterent this truly brilliant piece or art, the first thing i did (and im sure im not alone) 
 was find an innocent pedestrian and beat them completely senless, then carry on smashing there 
 heads in for many,,,,,,,,,, many hours.
  
  This game is the greatest Non-rpg ever created, and it SHOUOLD be rememebered for eternity, let 
 us not forget the roots of what we have today, twas only a few years ago this was state of the 
 art, remember alex the kid, remeber GTA3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny_Bullit
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 23, 2006 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Gta III is in my view one of the best games ever made the way the game offers the freedom to do 
 as you want and there are not that many buttons either to know also the story line is amazing I 
 dont like that your character has no name or voice but no problem still the best game ever made 
 the music is very good and the talk shows are very funny this game has lived up the hype and it 
 will go down in gaming history also the voice acting for the people you work for are very good 
 and sound very real to me this game is worth your money go out and buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adijan
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 15, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  The 3rd part in the series which allows you to roam through the streets killing, stealing, and 
 hijacking things that you want. There is great music in the game, graphics are well improved form 
 the last series. Here you can also walkt he streets, wait till a car pulls up, kick the driver 
 out , and drive away, But be warned the stars will increase and will have cop cars chaseing you. 
 There are mission campaigns whish you have to do in order to unlock some stuff in the game but 
 why not use cheats? Some missions say KILL SOME ONE or rob or steal something, fastest way to beat 
 them CHEATS. Although when using c's you will ruin the great effort that the prodcuers put into 
 the game. The over-all style of the game is to be like a ganster searching or working for some 
 mobsters (rich guys) and wanting things to be done. If you steal some cars and buy yourself a house 
 and then the cars you steal put them in a garage, then its yours. Over the all of it this game 
 gives you an oppurtunity to steal, and kill stuff that you would regret doing in real life.
  
  9.1 For me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamQur
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 19, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 3 is exactly like the PS2 version, it sacrifices very little to bring you this 
 game, and its here, not much is lost in the translation between the PS2 and the PC version, although 
 if you don't have a good PC which gives off a great performance, you'll definitely see some frame 
 rate hitch ups here an there because this has happend to me. Although everything else is still 
 that same superb game you loved form the PS2 version, but unlike the PS2 version which had the 
 lock-on target when you shoot, in the PC version it doesn't, instead it just a crosshair, but because 
 you use a mouse, its perhaps a bit easier this way, considering is was done this way for the PC. 
 The sound is great, the celebrity voices are good, but perhaps the music isn't exactly the best, 
 but chatterbox is at its own finest. If you haven't got a PS2 but you do have a PC, then look no 
 further and buy this, Vice City and San Andreas. Overall it's still the amazing game that everyone 
 loved and should not be missed out on. 9.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meischris39
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 17, 2006 11:13 am PT
Review:  The story begins with you robbing a bank and you girlfriend Catalina shoots you as you are no longer 
 needed you get framed for the robbery and are taken away in a police van along with your newely 
 found friend 8 ball but there is a bomb on the bridge which blows up sending the driver swirving. 
 The police come back to see if your all ok you break out and are on the run. You must make your 
 way through the ranks of liberty city hunt down catalina and get your revenge.
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay is very very good you start off with missions that will seem quite familiar 
 from the previous gta games drop Mrs X at Club Nubb in 2 mins or kill Mr X at the parking lot. 
 But after you get past these missions the game takes off and you get the true gta expirience. There 
 are 3 islands in total each with their own unique persona with different vehicles scenery and people. Whats 
 intriguing about Gta is the amount of open ended gameplay which is involved you can take the train 
 car bus boat plae or walk to your desired destination. There are a few niggles with the game i must 
 stress sometimes you can get stuck or fall through scenery which can be quite frustrating but the 
 worst thing about the game would have to be the water you cannot swim and getting in and off a 
 boat can be quite a task. The game also has great car physics show in no other game before i believe 
 which makes smashing up cars an absolute delight.
  
  Graphics - The graphics are fairly decent for ps2 technology the textures are not all that great 
 and the characters appear blocky at times apart from that the scenery and cars look great. What 
 is also present is a day and night cycle which will become very apparent in the later missions 
 you must do at night it has a clock which roughly = 1 min = 1 sec in about 24 mins real time you 
 get to see a variety of different sky and lighting effects.
  
  Sound - A gta game would not be complete without some hilarious sounds and gta delivers like nothing 
 before the radio stations and quirky djs and commercials make for some funny gameplay. Also the 
 public react with what you do for example you hit a lampost a member of the public might shout 
learn to drive" the guns and weaponary sound very good and the mafia really brings a good feel 
 to the game.
  
  Misc- The game is great it is long lasting with over 50 missions great fun to be had like doing 
 your own stunts and racing around the city running people over what could be more fun gta really 
 does have a sense of a real city you do something bad the police chase you theres a fire the fire 
 brigade come injured people, fear not the ambulance service is here. The game also has a solid 
 collection of weapons including an uzi pistol baseball bat molotov and a greande just to name a 
 few. This is buy far one of the greater games that has come out for the ps2 so far and a sure buy 
 for anyone who is anyone.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psycho_FreakX
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2006 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 3 is ported to PCs with a slightly updated graphics and hell a lot better aiming 
 welcomes PC owners. GTA 3 is one of the most violent and better video games out there and should 
 not be overlooked. 
  
  FEATURES 
   A port of the PS2 Version to PC* 
   Support better Graphics & Controls * 
   Custom Soundtracks * 
   Faster Load Times * 
 
   Rated Mature * 
   1 Player * 
   Over 80 Missions * 
   Over 12 Weapons * 
   Over 20 Vehicles to Drive* 
  
  
  
  STORY / PLOT 
  After your girlfriend turns on you 
 after a robbery you are beening sent to a prison in good old Liberty City. For a robbery your girlfriend 
 betrayed you on. Then sudden the bridge is blown so you escape from your new best friend 8 Ball. 
 This is how your character will be thrown into a world full of gangs & drugs. The game takes place 
 in modern times with gang wars always making a splash everywhere. 
  
  GRAPHICS 
  ------------------------------ 
  The Game produces a slighter update to its PS2 Counterpart. 
 You can see further down the road buildings will appear faster when driving down the road. Characters 
 are updated slightly not very noticeable the weapons look very smooth & shiny. When you kill somebody 
 the blood looks more realistic then on the PS2 Version. Vehicles looks better now not a huge update 
 but a slight update in graphics. Still this game isnt pretty too looking sometimes. 
  
  SOUND 
  I personally liked the soundtrack to GTA 3 but with Custom Soundtracks they sound better 
 then usually. Other then that the game sounds exactly as it did on the PS2. The characters in the 
 game sometimes will say some stupid crap. 
  
  GAMEPLAY 
  GTA 3 This is Simply the Exact Same Game that Appear on PS2 a year earlier. What make GTA 3 a good 
 game are all different game elements over 80 missions from missions on foot till ones in vehicles. 
 Plus the living breathing cities in the game is what makes GTA games just that amazing. The story 
 lines the voice acting & weapons are what make this game worth playing for those 50 to 100 hours. 
 There is so much variety to the series from missions to killing people to missions where you drive 
 a fire truck so much variety to this game. In GTA 3 simply you will be doing mission after mission 
 to get to the top to be a made man. 
  
  
  LASTING APPEAL 
  
  The GOOD 
  -------------- 
  The Selection of Music 
  The Selection of weapons 
  The variety of missions 
 
  The unlockables 
  The Controls Are Very Excellent 
  
  The BAD 
  Some Missions are Extremely Hard 
  To complete the game 100% meaning doing some crappy Missions. 
 
  After turning against some gangs it is unsafe to revisit their area. 
  No Swimming 
  
  The FINAL VERDICT 
  If you played this game on the PS2 its pretty much the same game. The 
 graphics & controls have been heavily improved to this title. If you never played it go check it 
 out for the PC. 
  
  I Highly Recommend It! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xraes
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best ever made and i would heartily recommend it too anyone. I feel the 
 rating is to high though and it should only be "Teen" I also wish the character would talk and 
 have a name but other than that it is the best. The story is good and gives you a great time playing 
 its incredibly open ended so you can play the story if you feel like it. I just played the story 
 to get new territory so do whatever you like. i believe that anyone should be able to grasp this 
 game. nobody should miss out on the amazing story, gameplay , gore , and all. I hope i have made 
 my point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grave_rob
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 2, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  I've been playing the GTA series since the original pc top-down view game. The freedom & detail 
 of a full city to roam has always held such appeal for me. 
  
  When GTA3 came out, I was stoked to say the least. This game (although outdated now) is truely 
 a wonderful thing. A giant city at your disposal full of cars & highpowered weapons & what's more: 
 citizens & police to offer you hours upon hours of amusement.
  
  I can't imagine that there's anyone who's a gamespot-er that hasn't played atleast one of these 
 3d GTA games, but if there is, please: buy one today. You'll thank me later. GTA3 would definitely 
 be a nice one to start off with.
  
  Although it's been out for years, I still find myself coming back to it. The story is great, the 
 characters, memorable. Rockstar games put so much detail into this baby. I'd even sit in a parked 
 car just listening to the funny radio station ads & laugh. 
  
  Even if you've played the new gtas, this one still deserves respect. Give it a go if you haven't 
 yet or if it's been sometime. This is just plain entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon247uk
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 28, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  The first birds-eye-view GTA was a total flop. Okay, maybe it was alright for those who like blowing 
 up policemen over and over again. But after two of these bird-eye-view games rockstar realised 
 that thay had to upgrade it a bit. Their answer was GTA 3. 
  
  GTA 3 stars off a bit slow. You begin on the recently blown up Calahan Bridge as an escapee with 
 your friend, 8-ball (8-ball specialises in bombs and anything else explosive) . Anyway, i can hear 
 you crying "How did you end up in prison" well it turns out that you were betrayed early on during 
 a bank robbery by a woman called Catalina. She attacked you and left your character for dead while 
 she made off with the loot. 
  
  Anyway back to buisiness. You need to knick a car and drive to an abandoned warehouse which you 
 can return to later on to save your game. Just around the corner is your next job. Of course people 
 in Liberty City are idle and you are still required to drive there. Your first job is from someone 
 called Luigi. He owns a club in the Red Light District and you have to act as a taxi driver delivering 
 his clients across portland. 
  
  Later on in the game you finally manage to unlock two more islands both have which have more missions 
 that you are required to complete. Luckly the last one (Shoreside Vale) only has one mission. That 
 mission requires you to seek out Catalina and kill her as she has kidnapped your secret admirer. 
 Maria Leone. You have to find the dam, penetrate the defences and blow up a helicopter which is 
 carrying Catalina (even though you blow it up she Catalina still survives all the way up till San 
 Andreas) .
  
  The graphics are rough and are a bit..... pixilated if that is what you want to call it. Despite 
 this flaw everything else is good. The storyline for revenge is good. The cars are good. Blowing 
 up aircraft is good. The controls are easy. The only thing that is going to stop yourself from 
 getting this game is you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eolfson
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  If you are already a fan of the Grand Theft Auto series then GTA 3 is worth your while. However 
 if you don't have own any of the series and are looking into it then go with Vice City or San Andreas. 
 The overall gameplay of GTA 3 is just as fun as the others in the series. But the shooting can 
 be frustrating when you can't aim at the guy you want. Several missions also seem impossibly hard, 
 but there are always ways to get through them even if it means taking to much of your time. In 
 general though the game is awesome, and is well deserving of your time. If you like the GTA series 
 and don't own GTA 3 yet, then I suggest that you buy it when you get the chance, but there is no 
 need to hurry. Enjoy. Feel free to visit my profile and check out some of my other reviews while 
 a make my way toward the certury mark, plus I went around to all my reviews and edited this back 
 in, so you should just have a look anyway. Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zedron33
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2006 8:24 pm PT
Review:  GTA 3 is a big improvement over the ones that came before it. The first thing I noticed was the 
 improved graphics and sound. One look at a taxi in GTA 3 makes you feel like its a dream. Compare 
 it to the one on GTA2 and you will see what I mean. I also noticed the new camra angles, which 
 really impressed me since I disliked the 'helicopter' view (sky view) . There was 4-5 angles to 
 choose from.
  
  There was also sound for the characters in the game for missions and when your on the street. Everyone 
 has a voice now except your main character (which is funny since even the people on the street 
 have them, youd expect the MAIN character would have one to) . Another improvent was the new map. 
 HUGE! There were also new added wepons, like the baseball bat, the abailty to shoot peoples heads, 
 arms, and legs off too with a nice blood effect to give it a more realistic feeling. There were 
 all new cars, except for police cars, ambulances, and firetrucks. They still kept the 100 hidden 
 packages and they have the insane stunts too.
  
  Overall, GTA 3 is one of the best in the series. If you havent played this game yet, then you really 
 need to get out more and play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GizmoSimo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  In the game Grand Theft Auto 3, your character is a man who has been betrayed, and left for dead 
 by a partner in crime in Liberty City, where the only dirty word is hope. Now, he must restart 
 his life by doing jobs for the local mafia, and meanwhile seek revenge on those who betrayed him.
 
  
  The main idea behind GTA3 is to provide you with a new experience. You are seeing your character 
 with a third person view of Liberty City - a seedy area where anything goes. You can pretty much 
 just steal any car on the street you see, as long as you can catch it. Some really good cars are 
 hidden, for example, there's a car that's just like a jaguar hidden in a car shop and you must 
 break in to get it. There's a hidden tank, and tons more fun, but the main idea is just to provide 
 you with fun. Some people say this game is too violent, and after all I heard, when I played it 
 the first time I expected tons of gore. But, it's not the most violent game I've seen. I have seen 
 worse. It's really what you do in the game that counts. For example, you can walk over to someone 
 walking on the street, and get in a fistfight, kill him or her, and steal his or her money. Or 
 you could sniper out people with a sniper rifle, a weapon to choose from among the many you can 
 get in the game. But with actions come consequences, because the more you do, the more `stars' 
 you get-the most you can get being six. For each star represented, is a higher level of police 
 after you. Eventually, you can get helicopters, snipers, and all trying to take you down. So if 
 you play the game like this, it can be very bad for people affected by games. The whole basic idea 
 of the game is revolving pretty much around mafia jobs so yes, I wouldn't recommend it to children. 
 But you can also take taxi jobs, firefighter jobs, and police jobs, hunting down criminals like 
 yourself. So with this in mind, you can also become a good guy. Depends what you want to be. Another 
 fun thing, is with most car racing games and such, if you want a new car, you have to go to the 
 start menu and choose a new car (games like Project Gotham Racing, and Twisted Metal) . But in this 
 game, if you blow up your car, or simply want a new one, you just run over and pull someone out 
 of his or her car, and steal it. Yes, agreeing with some people, this is kind of bad for people 
 who are easily influenced to see things, so I don't recommend it to anyone who might look at this 
 and think to themselves, I think I'll go hotwire cars!' :)
  
  The graphics are very good, and the 3-D environment is very big for a game. You can travel by subway, 
 car, plane, and more to 2 other cities near by (after you progress in the game) . So just experiencing 
 the environment is worth the price of the game. It's very realistic, and in some parts of town 
 it's extremely seedy (you can guess what I mean) . I think a few aspects like that could have been 
 left out of the game, but I guess the publishers decided it would make it more realistic. Anyway, 
 yes. I definitely do NOT recommend this game to children, for not only is there violence, but the 
 jobs you do, and the city are both almost too realistic for any child to handle. But for older 
 teens and above, the basic idea of GTA 3 is very fun. It's a great improvement on the previous 
 games, and you can even change your third person view to the old above head view. The game's basically 
 a mix between Max Payne, Great car games, The Sims, and The Godfather trilogy. It's simply one 
 of the greatest game experiences I've ever had, and it is extremely addictive (thank goodness I'm 
 not someone who can play games and lose track of time, I would probably still think it's the day 
 I bought the game) . Anyone who wants to experience this same feeling of a virtual 3-D world of 
 sleek, stylish cars at your hands, taking out jobs for the mafia, and so many other fun things 
 in this game, please play it. Just don't get too addicted, because beware-it's very possible.
 
  
  Grand Theft Auto 3 is the very notion of what a game should be. The idea of a world where you don't 
 really have to do anything- instead of having to crack levels by the same method (take most games 
 for example, to beat the level you must figure out how to get to the bad guy, kill him, and win 
 the game. And although you can choose how to fight them, you basically have to follow the whole 
 level, the same way everyone else who plays the game does, left here, right there, watch out for 
 that guy who pops out of the corner in 30 seconds, etc.) You can really explore Liberty City the 
 way you want to. No standard level procedure. It's fully self-deciding on what you want to do, 
 not what you have to do. That's what makes this game so enjoyable. Once again, GTA 3 is not a game 
 for children but for adults. 4/5 stars. Play it, and I promise it will be one of the most enjoyable 
 game experiences you've had in a long, long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katilmis
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 18, 2006 4:13 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game on PC because I just got my PC and wanted to try a game out on it. I ended up 
 not buying this game on PS2.
  
  I enjoyed this game more when it was on the PC than on console, mainly because you can transfer 
 saved game files lol. I really suck at this game, but I love the free roaming/driving/shotting/etc.
 
  
  I managed to get a saved file with 98% complete:) , that was pretty good. I was able to go anywhere, 
 but the only problem was that there was some gangs that shot at my vehicle when I went near them.
 
  
  The graphics could have been better, as well there was alot of glitches I found, but it sucks that 
 Rockstar Games doesn't put updates out for their games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game_god_
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 12, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  GTA3 is one of the greatest accomplishments of the PS2 definitly and has such a long gameplay. 
 I have spent literally hundreds of hours playing this with numerous buds. There is jus so **** 
 much yuo can do in this game it is crazy. You have to find all kinds of different little gadgets 
 accross the city and do missions for many different bosses. But you dont have to do anyrthing you 
 dont want to. You could just go and get the army and all of Liberty City Police on your ass. Or 
 just go get some hookers and do em. Or just go on a huge killing spree and snipe everyone u see. 
 My personal favorite is going and beating the **** bare knuckle style. Nothin better than kickin 
 a whores ass after you do her and gettin ur wod of cash back! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A_Viper
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 7, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Before Grand Theft Auto 3, the GTA games had cult status. They were exceptionally violent and offensive 
 games that's status was enhanced by their simple graphics, aerial 2D view, and emphasis on cruel 
 fun over style. I rated them more as a curiosity than as a decent gaming experience.
  
  GTA 3 changed all that though. Not only has this game revolutionised the GTA franchise, but it 
 has also set down a new marker in gaming terms. At the time of its release in the spring of 2002 
 it was something completely new. It brought an added realism to games that hadn't been seen at 
 this level before. Your character is placed in a city and he can do whatever he likes. He can go 
 anywhere, steal any cars, drive around aimlessly, catch the train, mug people, or go on a mass 
 killing spree that will leave a trail of car wrecks and bodies all over the city. This level of 
 freedom and open-ended gameplay was something totally new.
  
  Coupled with this freedom, GTA 3 is a visually stunning game. While by today's standards (early 
 2006) it is no longer cutting edge in terms of graphics, it is still impressive to see the level 
 of detail throughout the vast game world. With three islands making up Rockstar's version of New 
 York City (named Liberty City) , it is an expansive realm, and it will take a long time playing 
 before you know all the streets and are bored of driving around bringing four-wheeled death to 
 unfortunate passers by. 
  
  The voice acting is neat, featuring some well-known actors, and the sound effects are realistic, 
 adding to the sense of realism that the game conveys. The game has an impressive array of radio 
 stations that you can listen to while driving around, with music ranging from classical to rap 
 to techno. Whatever your taste in music you will find something that will be the soundtrack to 
 the carnage you create. There is a comical talk-show for when you get bored of the music, featuring 
 a fantastic script and some truly memorable characters. Neat touches such as the radio stations 
 really enhance the effectiveness of the game and further immerse you in its world.
  
  The story line is great, and features some interesting characters from different backgrounds, all 
 of whom are linked by crime and the desire to be the dominant force in Liberty City. You find yourself 
 caught up in the middle of their gang war, and will have to perform missions for many of them to 
 be able to survive. The plot has some interesting twists and ends in a spectacular final mission. 
 
  
  The plot missions are not the be-all and end-all of the game though, as you can also complete side 
 missions involving emergency vehicles as well as various other tasks such as collecting hidden 
 packages and finding unique jumps. These make for a more complete gaming experience and mean that 
 if you become stuck on a plot mission you can take a break by going on an exploration of the city 
 completing other elements of the game... or simply getting up to gun-crime related mischief.
  
  Considering how much of an advancement this is on almost everything that came before it, it 
 is surprising that there are no problems with long loading times or the games overall stability. 
 As yet I've haven't found any bugs. This highlights just how much time and care Rockstar North 
 put into this project, and makes it a true joy to play.
  
  Everything about this game is fantastic. It is a revolutionary game that will be seen as a milestone 
 in gaming for years to come. If you don't own GTA 3 yet then I suggest you go out and buy it. Now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SYdoggXxX
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 7, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Truth to be told, no review can do justice to the greatness that is Grand Theft Auto III; a game 
 that completely reinvented a series, and whose massive scope can't be fully appreciated unless 
 you have already played the game. This is one of those games that redefines a genre and raises 
 the bar of quality so high, it's tough to duplicate it, much less surpass it.
  
  While the game's Mature rating is right on the spot, it should be noted that this isn't a murder 
 simulator (like the idiot Jack Thompson would have you think) nor is the violence handled in a 
 poor fashion. Anyone who thinks that this game is just an escape for immature teenagers is sorely 
 mistaken. There's so much more to the game than just raising hell in Liberty City just for the 
 sake of it; there's a tremendously well written main story that gives you a motivation to accomplish 
 some of the game's wackiest missions. Sure you can go on a killing spree at any time, but while 
 the violence is very graphic, the game handles everything in a quirky way that makes it perfectly 
 clear it's only ok to act like a lunatic in the game, not in real life.
  
  The gameplay in GTA III is the main attraction as there's pretty much a little bit of everything 
 packed into the game; you'll have a plethora of different cars at your disposal, plenty of weapons, 
 you'll perform several missions on foot that will require some exploration, you'll race around 
 the city, hell, you can even fly across Liberty City in the Dodo (a plane that is complicated to 
 handle and very difficult to master) . Pretty much anyone who plays video games will find at least 
 something that fits their taste in GTA III. Add to that the fact the game is very open ended; there's 
 never one right way to do things, and you can always choose to go nuts however it pleases you. 
 This adds a tremendous amount of replay value, to a game that's already worth every penny you pay 
 for it.
  
  Graphicwise GTA III gets some mixed reactions; some people criticize the poor technical quality 
 of the graphics, while others are amazed at the amount of detail put into making Liberty City a 
 lifelike environment. My view is that this game doesn't need high polygon count graphics, because 
 the cartoonish style of graphics fits perfectly with the game's nature. Every area of Liberty City 
 and the several actions that you perform through the game are packed with tiny details that make 
 everything feel more lifelike. A few examples would be the way your character has to stop and takes 
 his breath after sprinting, the damage modeling of the cars, the various signs on buildings and 
 scattered all over the city, etc. The visuals in this game are truly top notch.
  
  Another area that potentially steals the show is the game's audio, or more specifically it's soundtrack. 
 As you cruise around Liberty City, you have a wide variety of different radio stations to choose 
 from, each packed with some great music and hilarious commercials. The best radio station however 
 would be Chatterbox, a laugh out loud talk radio station, that not only serves for laughs, but 
 for understanding some of the game's characters even better.
  
  There's no doubt about it, GTA III is a legendary game. Even years after it's original release 
 the game is still just as fun to play and can hold it's own against any of today's games (including 
 GTA Vice City and GTA San Andreas) . If you're new to this series, this is the one you want to start 
 with. Everyone else consider this review a tribute to the masterpiece that is Grand Theft Auto 
 III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_orb
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 4, 2006 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 3 was the first of the GTA games to be a large success. A large success is actually 
 an understatement, when the game was released for the PS2 it was HUGE. It was one of those games 
 that almost everyone played. GTA 3 paved the way for the future hit titles of Vice City and San 
 Andreas. As with all the GTA games GTA 3 deals with the usual mature subject of drugs, prostitution, 
 robbery and crime in general. All with a heavy dose of violence throughout. As such I do not recommend 
 this game for children or people that cannot keep world of fiction from their reality.
  GTA 3 takes place in Liberty City, which has been brought to life quite beautifully. Liberty City 
 is composed of three main sections all of which are home to the various gangs. The city looks great 
 to say the least, and unless you have played the other GTA games it will be dauntingly huge in 
 size. In fact most players will spend several hours just learning the layout of the city, its 
 busy streets and its many back alleys. At all times, night and day, the streets are teaming with 
 pedestrians and local gang members. 
  The Gameplay in GTA 3 is both intensely fun and the games biggest frustration at times. The games 
 meagre story is focused around several core missions you receive from several crime bosses across 
 the sprawling Liberty City. These missions are very varied in nature and difficulty. Some are a 
 walk in the park, while others are insanely hard and will leave you swearing loudly at your computer. 
 Even just wandering about the city can become quite dangerous later in the game as progressing 
 through the games core missions will force you to cross several of the citys gang lords and mafia 
 bosses earning you a death mark. So if you wander into the territory of an unfriendly gang you 
 will find yourself under a hail of bullets in no time. Defending yourself is possible but as you 
 do new gang members will spawn out of nowhere and youll quickly find yourself swamped in no time. 
 Whats worse is that these gangsters will shoot at you as you pass by in any vehicle and if you 
 stop youll find yourself being dragged from you car onto the street. This interference can, and 
 likely will cost you your life and force you to restart several missions. Also, considering that 
 2 shotgun blasts can cause most cars to explode (killing you instantly) youll end up dreading 
 certain areas of the city.
  One of the great appeals of GTA 3 is in the amazing amount of side content. The core missions of 
 GTA 3 account for less then 50 percent of the things you can do while playing. There are hidden 
 packages scattered across the city, you can drive people around the city in stolen taxis for extra 
 cash. If you can steal yourself a police cruiser you can chase down criminals for cash. The things 
 you can do for fun goes on and on. What also great is that doing most of these things gives you 
 more then money. Collecting the hidden packages will net you equipment delivered to your hideouts 
 across the city saving you the trouble of buying them. Doing police missions will eventually earn 
 you regenerating police bribes that you can use to keep the police off your back. It goes on and 
 on and gives you reasons to put many an hour into this game.
  You spend more time driving in GTA 3 then you do on foot, and much of the time youll be driving 
 fast. Lucky for you however that there seem to be no real traffic laws in Liberty City, red lights 
 really mean stop if you feel like it, and as far as I can tell there is no speed limit. The common 
 citizens of Liberty City seem to not mind stopping for red lights and overall seem to follow what 
 we would call traffic laws. GTA also sports a very forgiving physics system as far as driving is 
 concerned allowing you to do some things you couldnt do in real life and as long as your car lands 
 upright your free to keep going until your vehicle catches fire. And when it does you only have 
 a few seconds before it explodes killing you in the process.
  Death in GTA 3 is never the end however, if you die youll just wake up at a hospital, stripped 
 of your weapons and a bit poorer. Also getting wasted also instantly results in a mission failure. 
 The same can be said about the liberty city police. Doing bad things in view of the police will 
 bring about their unwanted attention and surrendering will land you at the police station, stripped 
 of your weapons and a bit poorer after properly bribing the local boys in blue. However the police 
 only seem to be watching you as youll never see the police chasing other people around and they 
 seem to ignore the actions of anyone else. You can be chasing someone who is mowing down police 
 left and right and they wont twitch until you do something illegal. The only thing about the police 
 that really drove me insane was their behaviour during missions. Some missions will result in you 
 racking up an extremely high wanted level, which will result in you running from the police, the 
 FBI, and in the worst situations the army. Once you have a wanted level of 2 the police go insane 
 and will ram you at full speed with their cars, even if it costs the officers their lives. However 
 once you meet your mission objectives (whatever they may be) the police immediately give up, even 
 if they are right behind you. Literally, one second youve got police cruisers flying at you, gunshots 
 coming at you from everywhere, tanks crawling the streets. The next second they all give up and 
 drive away. It was likely made that way to make the game a bit more forgiving but its the only 
 real aspect of the game that I thought was really stupid.
  Most of GTA 3 looks ok to good. Most of the graphical detail was put into the vehicles which you 
 can see as you drive around the city. Liberty City itself deserves mention just for the sheer variety 
 of detail youll find across it. While some shops are reused in particular areas the city is varied 
 and youll get to know it based on landmarks, all of this makes Liberty City quite believable and 
 well put together. The only things that look really bad in GTA 3 would be the character models. 
 Its here that you can tell that GTA 3 was made for the PS2 as they are quite clunky looking (hands 
 especially look terrible) .
  GTA 3 is a real winner on the sound front. The city sounds almost real in some areas filled with 
 the chatter of random people and the ever present sound of traffic. There are several different 
 radio stations to listen to while you drive, each with their own flavour. The greatest thing about 
 the pc version would be the inclusion of a new radio station that plays your own mp3s. Allowing 
 you to play your own music in the game, and there is something to be said about running from the 
 FBI and the police while listening to All Your Base.
  Overall GTA is a great game, especially if you have some patience. While many of the missions are 
 frustratingly hard its always worth it when you get it right. Its also a title chalked full of 
 content and challenges, ensuring that if you want to you can spend many an hour just doing challenges 
 or exploring the city and the pc game has the great bonus feature of a custom radio station. All 
 of this makes the game instantly recommendable to anyone that has played the other GTA games or 
 anybody that wont shy away from a challenge as well as controversial subject matter and a good 
 dose of violence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ-Sephiroth
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 4, 2006 10:04 am PT
Review:  This game is a grat PS2 game but a better PC game. The graphics are a nice boost from the PS2. 
 The sound is the same. The gameplay is the same but with much much much better controls. The game 
 is basicly run around kill destroy car jack ect.. But there is a story my friends *everyonje gasps*
 
  
  yes you get involved the Mafia and the Yakuza and the Triads. It involves gangs and all than junk 
 (not gangs lile Bloods or Crips, but organized gangs) 
  
  This game is a great PC game. I think it is like 20 dollars. It's a great deal. I sugest picking 
 it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p232
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 28, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  This was a hole new level of playing the grand theft auto. Finally it came in 3D! Its so fun to 
 yust walk around in this game, and do whatever you want. Thats the best part of the game. But you 
 also have to do missions if you want to get another city part, and the missions is ok, but not 
 extremly fun. When this game came, i yust loved it, and it was one of my favorite game. But today, 
 its yust nothing compere to San Andreas. So if you love gta, i will recommend that you buy San 
 Andreas, becouse its 10 times better, which is the mening, becouse gaming have to be better and 
 better if it will make money. 
  
  So if you like this, then buy San Andreas, is almost the same, yust better!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GCrocksPS
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 26, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  Brought to us with flashy graphics and new missions, gta 3 hit it off straight away.
  Either the third or second best of the series, GTA 3 is one hell of a game, and really throws it 
 in your face with its all new cars, radio stations with real music, gore and hit and run, plus 
 a giant map. 
  The graphics are one massive leap from the flat 2d of gta 1&2 to full on, ace colour, 3d of the 
 next century.
  The soundtrack is excellent, and is even available on CD from certain places, with a wide range 
 of funny and stupid songs from known artists.
  Now getting old, this game is still a great impact on the series, with only one or two minor flaws 
 and some hilarious cheats. 
  A great game with ace graphics and brilliant soundtrack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2006 2:00 am PT
Review:  GTA 3 follows the story of an insignificant hood (the player) , who, after being betrayed by the 
 girl he loves in a robbery gone bad, moves up the ranks of the crime world by performing various 
 missions for Liberty City's numerous gang leaders. These missions, of which they are over 70, drive 
 the main story forward. And although some are only unlocked after finishing others, there is a 
 great degree of flexibility of when and in what order the player wants to finish those missions.
 
  
  The main gameplay involves driving, a lot of it, and most missions involve use of a vehicle, from 
 which there are many to choose. When the player begins driving a car which he in most cases either 
 hijacks at gunpoint or steals from a parking lot, what is most striking is just how vast the environment 
 is. Liberty City is virtually teeming with life: pedestrians walk the streets, gangs inhabit the 
 corners, police cruisers are on patrol, and each neighborhood has its own unique and memorable 
 feel. While its all overwhelming at first, the player eventually memorizes the lay of the land 
 and is as comfortable driving around each neighborhood as if it was his own. And although there 
 is a limit to the size of the city, nothing becomes repetitious or boring, because each mission 
 brings a new context to an area, and most of the time, points out something the player might not 
 have noticed before.
  
  Although the graphics are not revolutionary, they work to sufficiently recreate the look and feel 
 of a real city, and real vehicles. The character animations are sometimes rudimentary, but once 
 again they don't detract too much from the gameplay. The weather effects are particularly nice, 
 and the difference between sunshine, fog, and rain add even more variety to the game. 
  
  The sound adds more depth to the game, pedestrians make comments when they are passed on the street, 
 and there are a number of radio stations available while driving that are almost always hilarious. 
 You can tell a lot went into finding great voice talent and writers for the radio. And judging 
 by the big names who make up the voice talent for the main characters, a lot of money went into 
 that aspect of the game as well, with voiceovers by Robert Loggia, Joe Pantoliano, Kyle MacLachlan, 
 and Michael Madsen.
  
  The save system leaves something to be desired, however. It would be nice to restart a mission 
 directly at the mission start rather than being required to travel back to that mission's start 
 point. Even better would be a quicksave feature within a mission. The repetition of certain hard 
 missions and the points leading up to them can be frustrating.
  
  The health system, consisting of life and shielding, is pretty straightforward. Free health powerups 
 are available in select locations and outside hospitals. Shielding can be purchased from gun shops 
 scattered through the city.
  
  There are many extracurricular activities available outside of the main missions and each have 
 rewards which may help in completing the harder main missions. There are taxi, ambulance, and fire 
 truck missions if feeling charitable, vigilante missions for meting out swift justice, timed gang 
 killing sprees, off-road rallies, and hidden packages scattered through the city. The more of these 
 miscellaneous missions completed, the more rewards for the character.
  
  All in all there is plenty to do in Liberty City, an immersive enough world in which you won't 
 mind spending well over 20 hours exploring. The key is that you can choose to do pretty much anything 
 you want to do in the city, and it all will most likely be a blast.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeyp7711
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 25, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  I think this has to be the best GTA of them all, considering that this is the only one of them 
 I like (by the way I'm not referring to Grand Theft Auto, Grand Theft Auto 2, and Grand Theft Auto: 
 London as GTA's) , and I'm not actually overly sure why.
  
  I just find that messing around on the game is more fun, as the story side of the game seems pretty 
 boring. I never did the missions on the first 3 2D games, and I didn't on this one either. Only 
 with Vice City, and San Andreas, I get the feeling that they are more mission-based, as if you 
 to do the missions..
  
  I got the idea this game ran much more smoothly too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2006 3:18 pm PT
Review:  This is a faithful port and lets you have a lot of freedom in terms of what you'd like to do. This 
 has to be the best GTA yet, the older, top-down views are now obsolete. It is a 3D world complete 
 with ambience and weather effects. Seeing pedestrians and drivers go about their business is spectacular, 
 unless you realize that they have no destination. You can actually go just about anywhere, and 
 those buildings you see off in the distance? You can reach them too. You can create alliances and 
 make enemies with other gangs. Get a hooker in your car and she'll give you a health bonus... very 
 nice. The weather effects, while nice to behold, may slow down your system and I don't think there's 
 an option to turn it off. The controls are easy to learn and nice to control, unfortunately you 
 can't lock onto a target (unless you picked the traditional, PS2 style control setting) . The damage 
 effects are appropriate. Different vehicles can take hits with regards to the class (SUV, sedan, 
 armored truck, etc) and you'll find that it's much easier to control a sports car than it is to 
 control a SUV. The radio stations are truly genius. They provide entertainment for the long drives 
 you'll have to make. Most people agree that the radio stations is a critical aspect in making this 
 game the success it is.
  
  On the other hand, you'll come to realize that the game has limits. For example, things will materialize 
 in front of you not too far away. Look left and wait a few seconds, a car seems to appear. Look 
 right, then look left again and there's no car at all. Look right, then look left, nothing, look 
 right again and you'll see that a car magically appeared out of nowhere and passed by you. Certain 
 areas of the game, such as when crossing from island to island, my not be rendered quickly enough. 
 There are times when the roads look like blue transparency when it should look like a road. Wait 
 a while, and eventually it'll slowly come to be rendered properly. The weather effects can get 
 annoying. It seems to rain in Liberty City every day for some time. It is often overcast and night 
 appears to last longer than day. Many of the areas you need to get to are very tight, be prepared 
 to do many 8-point turns if you want to maintain the integrity of your car. The AI driving is horrible, 
 cars in front will make sudden turns and will even smash into you without regard. Sometimes they 
 try to avoid collisions by stopping, but I found many instances where regular cars just smashed 
 into me for no apparent reason (and no, they weren't driven by enemy gangs) . You can't swim, this 
 really blows as a significant portion of the map is filled with water. If you're 99% done with 
 your mission and you slide off the road into the water for whatever reason, you're going to have 
 to redo it. Saving? Yes, you can save, but only in between missions. That means you'll have the 
 frustration experience with games like Rainbow Six and IGN, you can't save during a mission so 
 if something goes wrong at the last second, it's better luck next time. In fact, many of the mission 
 require several attempts. This isn't that bad, but some missions take VERY LONG to complete, making 
 you drive from one end of the city to the other with a time limit or damage meter. Sometimes all 
 it takes is running over a bump to ruin everything. The AI drivers especially love to run into 
 you then. Have fun spending days dealing with the frustration of completing just one mission. The 
 game feels somewhat cartoonish, maybe that's to help players understand that this is just a game, 
 but listening to that Chatterbox radio station, I'm not surprised if kids try this stuff in real 
 life and attempt to find a "reset" button for the mistakes. Another thing, once you advance your 
 criminal career, you'll be enemies with certain gangs. Don't plan on revisiting the part of the 
 map your enemies are, you won't live long there.
  
  In conclusion, this game should've received an extremely high score if not a perfect if it wasn't 
 for the shortcomings in my 2nd paragraph. When it's fun it's very fun, when it's frustrating, try 
 not to smash the disc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerzrulez
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 10, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is  I recommend you get this game. One 
 of the best games ever. tHE GAMEPLAY IS EXTREMELY AMAZING. It is also very addicting too. The graphics 
 are good too. Like the lighting and the detail of the character models and the city. The sound 
 is good also like the voice acting and the music. I especially like chatterbox because it is pretty 
 funny. The value of this game can last you for years. There are a lot of missions to keep you busy. 
 If you don't like doing the missions, you can mess around as police are chasing you. Overall, this 
 game has tons of things to do. Like I said, THIS GAME IS EXTREMELY AMAZING, SO I RECOMMEND YOU 
 GET THIS GAME. Thats how good this game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 700652948163
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 9, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:   Liberty City is a complete physical universe with laws, rules, standards, ethics and morals. 
 They are yours to shatter. 
   Over 80 gangland missions and loads of side missions. 
   Work your way through the hierarchy of the gangs, meet bigger bosses, get better jobs. 
   
 Multi-layered missions interweave story elements from level to level. 
   Revenge plot drives the player through the game, whilst retaining non-linearity and freedom of 
 previous games. 
   Over two dozen ways to take out another character: fist fighting (punch, kick and head butt) , 
 base ball bat, handgun, Uzi, machine gun, M-16, rocket launcher, grenade, Molotov cocktail and 
 flame thrower. 
   Organized police forces including cops, SWAT Teams, FBI, and the Army work strategically to keep 
 Liberty City properly corrupt and somewhat safe. 
   Liberty City is divided into 3 districts: industrial zone, commercial district and suburban neighborhood 
 all connected by bridges and tunnels. Each has its own look and feel - different kinds of buildings, 
 cars, and inhabitants. As you progress through the game, new areas will open up to you eventually 
 allowing access to the whole city. 
   The streets of Liberty City are jammed with over 50 vehicles, each with their own physics. All 
 ripe for the plucking, cabs, sedans, family cars, mini vans, SUVs, trucks (pick-ups to 18 wheelers) , 
 sports cars, convertibles, buses (school buses and metro buses) , fire engines, ambulances, SWAT 
 vehicles, and even the ice cream man are on the move in fear of losing their ride. When trying 
 to escape a jam, boats and trains help transport players from one side of the city to the next. 
 
   Vehicles take damage on 18 different panels. 
   The time of day and night affects every mission. This city is a very different place at night 
 and some missions can only be performed at certain times of day. 
   A full-weather eco-system (including rain, fog, thunder and lightning) also affects gameplay. 
 For example, rain makes roads slippery, fog reduces visibility, etc. 
   Unpredictable pedestrian AI makes for wicked nights and strange days throughout Liberty City. 
 Hundreds of pedestrians each with their own characteristics populate Grand Theft Auto 3's intersections 
 and alleyways. Businessmen hurry to work, gang members look for trouble, and hookers prowl for 
 business. Each character acts and reacts to situations and the activity surrounding them in their 
 own unique way. 
   Over two hours of music make up the soundtrack for the City. Each vehicle is tuned to its own 
 radio station playing a combination of licensed tracks, specially created music and talk radio.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: biscuit81
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 27, 2005 9:35 pm PT
Review:  This game has it all. Racing, killing, stealing, being a mobster, a bomber, a sniper, god you can 
 even pick up hookers for a 'date'. I will never tire of this, I was thinking of buying a backup 
 copy just in case i wear out the first disc.
  
  The graphics are superb. The gameplay is smooth. I have read about supposed glitches but have not 
 found any. The cars drive almost like real cars, you can really feel the difference between the 
 cars and the heavier vehicles. The controls take two seconds to get comfortable with unlike other 
 games that take half an hour. 
  
  The police act like real police. If you shoot a hooker they only chase you for a minute then they 
 give up but if you shoot a cop and try to run they hunt you. I love the sheer realism in this game. 
 
  
  I sample a lot of games but usually don't like many at all. The games i do like i get sick of very 
 quickly as the gameplay never changes. This game has an incredibly flexible script. The Sims think 
 they have 'free will' they've got nothing on the free will in GTA iii. 
  
  GTA iii doesn't tire as the possibilities are endless. If you don't feel like doing missions just 
 go for a drive around town. You can shoot people if you want or just go collect the packages. You 
 can even be a good guy by breaking up street fights and stopping old ladies from being mugged. 
 Get on the highest building you can find and practice sniping. Throw grenades into crowds and collect 
 the money. Get Dodo and look for the ghost town. Steal cars for the mob. One of the fantastic things 
 about GTA is you can put your own soundtrack into the game and listen to it in any of the vehicles.
 
  
  There is always something to do in Liberty City. Don't bother trying to break the rules with this 
 game, there are no rules. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MartyVice30
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 18, 2005 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 3: An Absolute masterpiece. This game changed the gaming world forever and quickly 
 become one of the most popular and introduced the Grand Theft Auto series into the 3D world.
  
  This game is very easy to get into because of the gripping storyline. 
  I love the gritty 
 feel to the game the streets are usually dark and it makes you feel uneasy. This is the only game 
 I have ever played where when I start a mission I am almost shaking because Im so nervous and when 
 you are playing the mission at times it can become very tense. I think Rockstar really captured 
 the vibe of New York and created an excellent feel for the game.
  
  One thing I really like is that the characters nameless and doesnt speak so it adds mystery to 
 the main character and also makes it seem more like you are the main character because the main 
 guy expresses no opinions unlike Vice City.
  I also find that I like this game more than any other in the GTA series even though San Andreas 
 has so many fun features I find myself wanting to pop in my GTA3 disk and play the long but fun 
 storyline over again.
  
  Gameplay: is very good and makes u feel like u were there and sometimes u have to remind yourself 
 that its just a game
  
  Graphics: I thought the graphics were pretty good I really like the ghost trails they added to 
 the game but face and hands were a bit blocky
  
  Sound: Really good sound the radio stations rock and have alot from scarface. Fav station: Chatterbox 
 hilarious callers
  
  Value: As all the GTA games 10/10 for value as this game isnt one youll finish in a week and has 
 replayability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 27, 2005 11:52 am PT
Review:  This game is the biggest improvel of video game in history!!!!
  
  Gameplay: You play as a dude and then you run your own rules in the city. You can these awsome 
 weapons and even ****
  
  Graphics: The graphics aren't the best but they are good. The people look good and the areas are 
 amazing.
  
  Sound: There isn't any music in this game at all. Except for the time you drive in the car. You 
 get these cool soundtracks and they are really awsome. 
  
  Value: You can play for hours and hours trying to finish the game. This game would have awsome 
 if there was an online feature.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is an awsome game and you should definitely try this one out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-PRIME90
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 9, 2006 5:13 am PT
Review:  I bought this game on PC because I just got my PC and wanted to try a game out on it. I ended up 
 not buying this game on PS2.
  
  I enjoyed this game more when it was on the PC than on console, mainly because you can transfer 
 saved game files lol. I really suck at this game, but I love the free roaming/driving/shotting/etc.
 
  
  I managed to get a saved file with 98% complete:) , that was pretty good. I was able to go anywhere, 
 but the only problem was that there was some gangs that shot at my vehicle when I went near them.
 
  
  The graphics could have been better, as well there was alot of glitches I found, but it sucks that 
 Rockstar Games doesn't put updates out for their games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gilillo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2005 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Some thing never see it before, this game innovate all the gamestyles seen at as today, the playmode, 
 the history, the graphics, th FXs and above all the great freedom, they are all great innovations. 
 All this should made GTA one of the best actions games in the history, but there are serious problems 
 with the 3D engine and the game dosn't have a multiplayer option, may be this is the reason that 
 RockStars Games developed so quickly the continuation.
  
  The game maintains the original essence of its predecessors, where you are a gangster and the big 
 bosses of the city have some works for you, and to accomplish it some times you will fight vs the 
 law, and vs other gangsters; however, the game now was totally innovated cause everything is in 
 3D, with great environment, graphics, sound and music.
  
  The playmode is excellent wherever a really bad point is that we need a super computer in order 
 to run the game satisfactorily. It seems like the game doesn't have a good 3D machine, and inside 
 the game when i look front the graphics turns slow.
  
  In the other hand, the graphics are excellent, but it's not a good idea to have all the sound and 
 music in the cd, cause this makes the game even slower.
  
  Finally, the game its a great innovation, a total revolution in the action games, a great idea 
 that with the actual technologies couldn't 
  be worst, wherever, since the game doesn't' have multiplayer, the 3d engine problems the game is 
 far from perfection, but still a great game. We now are waiting for the next GTA, that we thing: 
 "IT MUST TO BE ALMOST PERFECT".
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cstrip
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2005 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Gta III is in my view one of the best games ever made the way the game offers the freedom to do 
 as you want and there are not that many buttons either to know also the story line is amazing I 
 dont like that your character has no name or voice but no problem still the best game ever made 
 the music is very good and the talk shows are very funny this game has lived up the hype and it 
 will go down in gaming history also the voice acting for the people you work for are very good 
 and sound very real to me this game is worth your money go out and buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwolf92
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 30, 2005 12:35 pm PT
Review:  It starts off in a foggy haze, with a amored police van heading across a bridge and then suddendly: 
 BOOM!!! And everything's blown to smitherens leaving only you and your trusty bombs-weilding friend 
 8-Ball left. From here on out it's up to you what your gonna do next (after getting to Luigi's 
 Club of course and finding a hideout) . Wanna run over that annoying old lady on the sidewalk over 
 there? Go ahead. Start a major crime spree. Take out your the old Rocket Launcher to blow cop cars 
 to kingdom come left and right. It's endless. Oh yeah, then there's the story. Your Tommy Vercetti, 
 street thug out to get revenge on your former partners-in-crime. You can get jobs from various 
 people and after a while you unlock new ones. As far as graphics go there okay. Pretty bad compared 
 to everything else but if you have a good card then they'll look fine. Gameplay's great whether 
 your in or out of a vehicle. Then there's the radio, packed with tons of great stuff to listen 
 to while slaughtering hordes of innocent bystanders. Along with a hilarious talk radio station. 
 You know it's great. Just buy it. One of the best games ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 5.9
Date: Oct 30, 2005 8:57 am PT
Review:  I think that Grand Theft Auto III is overrated. I can't see many good things in the game. The game 
 is simply too short!! I thought that this game should be one of my "I'm bored" games, if you know 
 what I mean. But then I was disappointed.
  To be honest: This is the crappiest game of the GTA series!! 
  It's too short, too quickly completed, 
 the cars sucks, the weapons sucks, the missions are too easy!!
  
  Gameplay: It's not like Vice City and San Andreas, but GTA III still has the gameplay.
  
  Graphics: 
 Is it just me, or is the graphics in this game more crappy than in Vice City?
  
  Sound: The radio stations in the game sucks! And the voiceovers in the game really stinks! It sucks 
 that the main character don't say ONE WORD!! NOT ONE SINGLE WORD!!!! Now that pisses me off!!
 
  
  Value: No replay value at all! I finished the game once, and then it's enough! I tried to play 
 the game again but I didn't want to! Now that sucks!!
  
  If you're a truly GTA lover you should buy the game, but anyway you shouldn't... the game sucks!! 
 I still regret I used money to buy it!!
  
  I hope some other members of GS supports me, but anyway I don't make a big deal of it... I just 
 don't like the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EqualPlatinum
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 29, 2005 4:47 pm PT
Review:  It has been some time since I've it, and even longer since I last beat it, but Grand Theft Auto 
 III is a game that will be the source of mostalgia for me and many others for a long time. It was 
 the game that turned GTA into what it is today, and a game that brought urban action to the forefront. 
 It's truely open-ended gameplay and audio quality (and especially quantity) made this game a pleasure. 
 I can even remember sitting behind my old PC with my brother play 'hotseat' style. Yes, it seems, 
 gta brings families together. When I'm an old gaming guru sitting looking back on my life, I'm 
 sure -- well actually I'm not going to go that far, but still, gta 3 was genous. It may have actually 
 been under rated in some cases. It is true, if you have San Andreas, it isn't worth getting gta3, 
 but still, it deserves all the praise it has garnered. Lets move on, but lets not forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LeElohm
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 22, 2005 10:40 pm PT
Review:  GTA3 set the standard for off the cuff role playing games that specialized in all things criminal. 
 It was the culmination of such games as Thief and Thief2 and paved the way for such period criminal 
 roleplaying games as Mafia. Indeed, the game engine itself seems very adaptable for various sorts 
 of in depth play.
  This game is a classic. This game is a primer for game designers insofar as it is open ended. not 
 boring, and features a great quest format.
  Some of the quests could be redone for a better play experience. the mission on Staunton Island 
 where you have to perfectly stuff a grenade through a window or have it bounce back and injure 
 you is easily one of the most frustrating quests I have ever seen.
  Designers should modify the quest so that it can be completed reasonably without the use of a cheat 
 code or some insider knowledge.
  
  In spite of the irritating quest problems, GTA3 is a rather fun game. Replay value is exceptionally 
 high. Certain quests don't feel 'finished' however.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yeshwent
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 13, 2005 10:26 am PT
Review:  GTA 3 is the sequel of GTA 2 (of course) . GTA 2 was a letdown as it had no type of excitement in 
 it at all. There was no ooh-ah about GTA but now there certainly will be. GTA 3 has revolutionized 
 the entire GTA series as well as the entire gaming history.
  
  GTA 3 has created an open-ended gaming experience that allows us to do a lot of things. You can 
 be a paramedic, a cop, a taxi driver and most important a criminal. You will be given various jobs 
 like killing a particular person, blowing up a place, or even rescuing a guy from danger. They 
 are real fun. It is a must play game for anyone who is mature enough to handle it. Yes you`re right. 
 GTA 3 also contains a lot of violence as well as some blood and gore., but it`s all right.
  
  The only problem with GTA 3 is that it again puts you as a nameless character with no identity 
 of his own at all. He also does not have any dialogues of his own (Is he dumb?) . Characters of 
 GTA 3 are excellently by Frank Vincent, Michael Rappaport, and Debi Mazar etc. The cars is another 
 attraction of GTA 3. It nearly offers 25 models of cars with good accurate modeling. There are73 
 missions in the main story line but even after completing the game you can work out on sub-missions 
 etc.
  
  Grand Theft Auto 3 is a grand game for grand times.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wilfred_Owen
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 24, 2005 8:57 pm PT
Review:  GTA 3, is the kind of game that only few could ever dream of, is a remarkable game. Not only was 
 it a great game but also it was one of the few that could ever spark up so much debate on the boundaries 
 that video games should cross. As for the game itself, it holds up very well for being just a port, 
 and for a pc game owner who never experienced the original will want to find out what they've been 
 missing out on. 
  
  The game play for the most part is very well done, you can do missions, in-between these missions 
 you have chances to find hidden packages, do rampages, or you could just commit crimes. The problem 
 with this is this gets boring at times and nothing really changes. Your felony meter has stars 
 on it and the more crimes you commit the more stars you can get. The more you have the harder it 
 is to survive.
  
  Graphics for the most part aren't anything special; nothing really has changed here though you 
 can edit the way you look in the game. 
  
  Sound wise, the game has some music tracks, which are good, but there aren't to many, you'll end 
 up hearing some repeated over and over. Though the pc version features an mp3 player so you could 
 just put some songs on there. The best station to listen to though was Chatterbox, which featured 
 many "puts a grin on your face* segments.
  
  As for value theres plenty to do when not doing any missions. So if you want to beat the game 
 100% you'll have to search for everything, mini car missions, phone missions, packages, etc. etc.
 
  
  Anyone who has a deep apperciatation for a great game, can handle the violent content, and is mature 
 enough to handle the ride this game has to offer would find it worth wild to pick this one up.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: albertodr13
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2005 4:34 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome i love this game but i also want to get gta san andres because the only game 
 of the gta that i have for pc rigth know is gta 3. I am going to get battlefield soon because i 
 only have the demo but it doesn`t matter because the demo still great to me i just want to wait 
 to play the full game. Know lets talk about gta again, i have all the gta for ps2 but i think that 
 for pc they are different so i will get then also for pc. The first time i play gta 3 for ps3 i 
 didn`t even know how to move but now i just know the controls like if i was playing gta 3 in the 
 ps2. For know this is the best action game i have play for pc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnzoLake
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Incre&iacute; ble lo que siente uno cuando juega a este juego por primera vez. Es simplemente incre&iacute; ble. 
 Tienes ante t&iacute; la grandeza de una ciudad, con todos sus peatones, coches, edificios...
 
  
  Y es que lo que hace grande a la saga Grand Theft Auto es la libertad que te da, puedes lo que 
 quieras, cuando quieras y como quieras, toda una revoluci&oacute; n.
  
  La historia te sumerge de lleno en el mundo de la Mafia, y se va complicando a medida que avanzas 
 en el juego. Las misiones principales son much&iacute; simas, pero a parte tienes decenas de misiones 
 secundarias y otras cosas bastante entrenidas que son necesarias para conseguir el 100% y alargan 
 la vida del juego.
  
  Los gr&aacute; ficos son bastante buenos para ser un juego en tercera persona, y hacen que el juego 
 vaya bastante fluido en todo momento. El sonido es muy bueno, el doblaje digno de una pel&iacute; cula 
 y la banda sonora excelente.
  
  GTA III es un juego de los que hacen historia, revolucionan el mundo de los videojuegos y se colocan 
 instantaneamente entre los mejores de todos los tiempos. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Unreal-Strife
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 18, 2005 7:02 am PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto III, the newest installation of the controversial Grand Theft Auto series has 
 under went a major face-lift. Fully in 3d, the game allows you to explore Liberty City in it's 
 best.
  
  The game basically allows you to run around and wreck havoc. Destroying cars, carjacking killing 
 people are just a few of the things the game allows you to do. The radio stations really add life 
 to the game, providing gamers with amusing dialogue and authentic music to listen to while driving 
 a car around the city. The sound is top notch, with incredible voice acting that sound intense 
 and realistic. The graphics though, are sub par, and looks a few years old. Changing resolutions 
 did not help though, 640 x 480 did not look any different from 1024 x 768.
  
  The physics were largely realistic and the vehicles handled well. However, the game did not handle 
 the vehicles well. GTA III does a poor job of conveying speed to the gamer. with exceptions for 
 the sport cars in the game, which are few and countable by one hand. They are the Banshee, Cheetah 
 and the police car. These are the only cars that will give gamers a better experience of speed. 
 The carjacking animations were too exaggerated and fake. 
  
  This is a game where players can live out their fantasy. I encourage all gamers to get this game 
 if possible as this is a true masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taliancich
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2005 10:05 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto III is the first game of its kind, completely re-inventing the series, and although 
 there may be many imitators in the future, there's a good chance that there will never be anything 
 quite like it again.
  
  GTA 3 follows the story of an insignificant hood (the player) , who, after being betrayed by the 
 girl he loves in a robbery gone bad, moves up the ranks of the crime world by performing various 
 missions for Liberty City's numerous gang leaders. These missions, of which they are over 70, drive 
 the main story forward. And although some are only unlocked after finishing others, there is a 
 great degree of flexibility of when and in what order the player wants to finish those missions.
 
  
  The main gameplay involves driving, a lot of it, and most missions involve use of a vehicle, from 
 which there are many to choose. When the player begins driving a car which he in most cases either 
 hijacks at gunpoint or steals from a parking lot, what is most striking is just how vast the environment 
 is. Liberty City is virtually teeming with life: pedestrians walk the streets, gangs inhabit the 
 corners, police cruisers are on patrol, and each neighborhood has its own unique and memorable 
 feel. While its all overwhelming at first, the player eventually memorizes the lay of the land 
 and is as comfortable driving around each neighborhood as if it was his own. And although there 
 is a limit to the size of the city, nothing becomes repetitious or boring, because each mission 
 brings a new context to an area, and most of the time, points out something the player might not 
 have noticed before.
  
  Although the graphics are not revolutionary, they work to sufficiently recreate the look and feel 
 of a real city, and real vehicles. The character animations are sometimes rudimentary, but once 
 again they don't detract too much from the gameplay. The weather effects are particularly nice, 
 and the difference between sunshine, fog, and rain add even more variety to the game. 
  
  The sound adds more depth to the game, pedestrians make comments when they are passed on the street, 
 and there are a number of radio stations available while driving that are almost always hilarious. 
 You can tell a lot went into finding great voice talent and writers for the radio. And judging 
 by the big names who make up the voice talent for the main characters, a lot of money went into 
 that aspect of the game as well, with voiceovers by Robert Loggia, Joe Pantoliano, Kyle MacLachlan, 
 and Michael Madsen.
  
  The save system leaves something to be desired, however. It would be nice to restart a mission 
 directly at the mission start rather than being required to travel back to that mission's start 
 point. Even better would be a quicksave feature within a mission. The repetition of certain hard 
 missions and the points leading up to them can be frustrating.
  
  The health system, consisting of life and shielding, is pretty straightforward. Free health powerups 
 are available in select locations and outside hospitals. Shielding can be purchased from gun shops 
 scattered through the city.
  
  There are many extracurricular activities available outside of the main missions and each have 
 rewards which may help in completing the harder main missions. There are taxi, ambulance, and fire 
 truck missions if feeling charitable, vigilante missions for meting out swift justice, timed gang 
 killing sprees, off-road rallies, and hidden packages scattered through the city. The more of these 
 miscellaneous missions completed, the more rewards for the character.
  
  All in all there is plenty to do in Liberty City, an immersive enough world in which you won't 
 mind spending well over 20 hours exploring. The key is that you can choose to do pretty much anything 
 you want to do in the city, and it all will most likely be a blast.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmyRules
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 1, 2005 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Assuming you've already known about this game, played it to death on the PS2 and now are feeling 
 like you'd like to revisit Liberty City (or not, this still applies) , this is the best way to do 
 it. For starters, this game is a direct port of the PS2 game. Tthe game takes advantage of the 
 suprior hardware capabilities to PC can offer, signifcantly better graphics, which are mainly the 
 same graphics with much higher resolutions and includes a bump in the special effects department. 
 This means you can actually read all of the signs that are on the sides of buildings. You can also 
 turn up the draw distance which is a big plus. One interesting side effect of increasing the distance, 
 the objects come into view much sooner than you are used to seeing, but the detailed skin for those 
 objects isn't applied 'till they are closer, which can look interesting. Game play differences 
 include menuvering as if you were playing a FSP. Aiming with the mouse, you will almost feel as 
 though the game is not difficult enough. I don't know if the game was easier to me because of that 
 or I just knew what I was doing, probably a little of both, but controls are must easier to use. 
 The only complaints I have with this version are about the cops and the traffic. First, the cops. 
 They don't seem to possess the same desire to catch criminals like they were in the PS2 version. 
 I attract heat now with little or no concern for my life, is it the cops or my experience coupled 
 with the better controls providing me with the confidence? I think its all of the above, but the 
 cops are certainly a weaker foe this time around. Traffic. Cars seem to disappear at the drop of 
 a hat this time around. One way to get cars to show up if there were none around was to look away 
 and look back, some cars would appear. Well, you really feel like you are hitting a reset button 
 because you can look: no cars, look away and look right back: cars, and finally look away again 
 and look back: cars gone, never drove by, nothing. It's nice to be able to get cars to show up, 
 assuming when you looked away that they sped into sight from far away. But to look away again and 
 have them disappear is not something you can make up an explaination about. Overall though, excellent 
 version of an excellent game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M-Yu
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 23, 2005 7:56 am PT
Review:  This PC adaptation is great and GTA3 is taking pages out of the Godfather' playbook and Rockstar 
 Games outdid themselves this time and here is the story of a Nameless gangster, whose girlfriend 
 turned on him and winds up in jail and an explosion erupts in Liberty City and the bridges connecting 
 it's three towns are destroyed and he has to make a name for himself, an ensemble cast of voiceovers, 
 from "The Sopranos" star Joe Pantiliano to Michael Madsen and the same action from the GTA series, 
 the features are better than the PS2 counterpart, you can put your own MP3s in the game and the 
 best thing, you can put your face in the game, isn't that great?, This is the best version in the 
 series, hands down, it is not missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afratnikov
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 16, 2005 2:26 am PT
Review:  I have been a fan of Grand Theft Auto and GTA 2, but you can hardly compare these two games with 
 GTA III. GTA 1 and 2 were unique games set in an interesting world with unique game mechanics, 
 but GTA3 took the concept from the two games and made the overall game a lot better. GTA 3 now 
 is set in a beautiful 3D city. The game added some great voice acting and put the game into a story. 
 The general gameplay remains the same  you do missions, kill people, and destroy cars  but everything 
 around that formula has been improved. But enough of that, you probably know what the game is about. 
 Let me talk about all the little things that make the game very very funny. 
  
  The world around you looks pretty real, but when you listen closely youll find a lot of differences. 
 For example: 
  While the army guys are shooting you, theyll yell, This is just like training! 
  You can listen 
 to the conversation between the two pilots in the helicopter: One guy says Did you read the manual 
 for this thing?! or the other guy will yell You might wanna move, pal! I want to shoot a moving 
 target! while shooting at you 
  
  Then you have the Chatterbox radio  one hour full of comedy material involving the GTA universe. 
 Youll listen to commercials of the Zibazu Monstrosity car  A woman commenting in an excited tone: 
 Weve lost little Johnny in the back and couldnt find him for an hour! or I dont care that 
 it has 2.5 miles/gallon  Im not a conservationalist, Im a mom! Youll hear about the Australian-American 
 war  (When asked when this war took place, the guy answered) Its the big one after the big one. 
 Or youll listen to a character from the game, Tony:  Tony? How did you know my name is Tony? 
 Are you tracing this call?! But my mom, she goes Tony, Tony, stand up for yourself, be like a 
 man, dont take no crap from anyone And again, this goes on for a full hour! There are, of course, 
 some other stations too, but I found myself listening to Chatterbox over and over again. 
  
  All these little things will make you laugh if you look for them. Even after I finished the 
 game, I intentionally kept playing so as to listen to the different funny comments. I was somewhat 
 disappointed that GTA: Vice City reduced the Fun Factor and went for a better story and well 
 developed main character. This is not to say that GTA III is better than GTA: VC, but I you should 
 get GTA III because it has a lot to offer that GTA: VC doesnt have. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fahrenheit1221
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 9, 2005 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto 3 may not have all the features and technical enhancements that the others have 
 but I personally feel it is the best in the series, mainly because it was the first of the Grand 
 Theft Auto's to be made in 3-D and it changed the world... Vice City and San Andreas both were 
 amazing but this came first and it took the world by storm. It raised the bar for all genres and 
 changed everything. 
  
  GTA 3 made things people never though possible happen in video games. It changed how we imagined 
 and thought of games and will always have a place in the hearts and minds of gamers the world around. 
 It had such a hype but it lived up to every bit. The PC Version may not have had as much excitement 
 because it had already been released for PS2 but this version allowed for mods and custom soundtracks, 
 both great additions. Even though I owned the PS2 version at one point I find the PC version and 
 Xbox version slightly better thanks to some basic visual innovations and some good new features, 
 namely custom soundtracks.
  
  The game takes place in Liberty City which I am sure you all know and is set around a mysterious 
 character who you don't know much about. The game opens during a bank robbery where your character 
 gets betrayed, shot, and left for dead. This leads your character, who has no name, on a trail 
 of blood, sweat and tears all through out Liberty trying to track down the women, Catalina, who 
 shot him.
  
  Despite the lackluster graphics, poor character models, draw distance flaws and seemingly nonexistant 
 storyline. Grand Theft Auto 3 still drops you right in the heart of Liberty City and gives you 
 the ability to steal any car and use any gun to kill as many people as you want. The game is violent 
 and sexually explicit (hookers) but it isn't nearly as bad as most people suggest. There are a 
 lot of games that are much worse... 
  
  Grand Theft Auto 3 just gives you a big (hypothetically) sandbox where you are free you use your 
 imagination in finishing a mission or doing whatever you want. It is your game, you decide who 
 lives and who dies, you decide who gets to keep their car and whose car you get to keep.
  
  This is Grand Theft Auto.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 1, 2004 6:43 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game, it's easy for me to see why it has become so legendary, and why it has 
 spawned two massive, high-selling sequels. This is the ultimate immersive video game simulation. 
 Liberty city looks, sounds, and feel so life-like, and this game offers a level of open-ended, 
 emergent gameplay that only exists in maybe 5% of the games that have ever been made. 
  
  But, I never quite fell in love with this game, and there's one major reason for that. It's IMPOSSIBLE. 
 Well, almost. This is among the two or three hardest games that I have ever played. This game gave 
 me some of the greatest feelings of frustration that I have ever experienced playing games. I can't 
 believe that I actually finished it. The frustration level is compounded by the game's extremely 
 unforgiving save system, which frequently forces you to replay 5 to 10 (or more) minutes of a mission 
 before you get to one extremely hard part. This game desperately needed more save points, or perhaps 
 auto-save points in the middle of a mission. It's impossible to play this game without getting 
 on edge.
  
  Other than that, this game perfectly accomplishes what it sets out to do. What Grand Theft Auto 
 3 does is create a massive living, breathing city and let you turn it into your virtual playground. 
 You can essentially go anywhere you want at any time, exploring every nook and cranny of the streets 
 and alleyways. You take various missions for nefarious organizations throughout the game like the 
 Yakuza and the Mafia, and you can Do you know that satisfying feeling that you get when you solve 
 a problem in a creative way, as if you "outsmarted" the game? This game gives you that feeling 
 repeatedly. Experimentation is not only encouraged, it is necessary if you want to beat the game. 
 Having trouble winning a big race? See what happens when you park a big bus or a truck in front 
 of your opponents at the starting line. Having trouble shooting some guy by killing him? Try a 
 car rigged with a bomb.
  
  One of the things that makes the game so much fun to play is the way that it provides such brilliant 
 satire on the American way of life. Rockstar shows that they can match shows like The Simpsons 
 and South Park when it comes to poking fun at the nuances of our culture. You can sense this everywhere, 
 especially on the game's radio stations, which mix some great music in with funny talk and amusing 
 commercials. 
  
  Liberty City is a treat to the eyes. About the only unfavorable feature in the graphics is the 
 short draw distance and the "pop-up" that occurs. Other than that, the city looks every bit like 
 a real city should. The skyscrapers in the downtown area contrast appropriately with the run-down 
 buildings of the red light district and the rolling hills of the suburbs. The game is loaded with 
 graphical eye candy, from the huge variety of vehicles in the game, to the variety of scenery in 
 every location.
  
  Value? Easily a 10. Grand Theft Auto 3 is one of those exceedingly rare games that has more content 
 than you could ever hope to discover in two months. The game is loaded with areas to explore and 
 surprises to find. The game also rewards this exploration by giving you money every time that you 
 find a little secret, and it tracks your progress as you go. The city is huge. By the time that 
 you finish exploring one of its three islands, you might have already finished most of the action 
 games out there. 
  
  Grand Theft Auto 3 is arguably the most influential video game of the past five years. Nowadays, 
 there are so many imitators to the Grand Theft Auto freestyle gameplay. Very few imitators can 
 actually succeed. This probably would have been my 2002 game of the year pick for the PC if the 
 game's fun factor had been so frequently spoiled by its nearly impossible missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonKyoto
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 21, 2004 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: Welcome to one of the best games of all time. Grand Theft Auto 3 is one of the latest 
 installments in the GTA series. Your character has been framed for a crime, and has escaped in 
 Liberty City. It is your job to befriend local gangs and crime lords, in an effort to find and 
 exact revenge on your girlfriend, who set you up to take the fall in the first place. Welcome to 
 one of the best games you'll ever play.
  
  Gameplay: Ahhh, what a great game. After escaping from the police in a small chase, you find yourself 
 in a small alleyway that you can now call your home. To get along in the game, you need to find 
 weapons, which almost every single person in Liberty City carries, make money, which you can get 
 from people or from doing jobs for the local crime lords, kill people, from important people, to 
 typical grandmothers and prostitutes walking the streets, and ( as the name of the game implies 
 ) steal cars to get around the large city. Even if you dont want to proceed in the game mission-wise 
 at the time your playing, there is still TONS of things for you to do. You can steal cars, everything 
 from small lemons to police cars and ambulances. You can kill people. Simply go up to someone walking 
 down the sidewalk, and either open fire, or proceed to beat there ass until there dead. Best of 
 all, you can rob them afterwards. The city is made up of 3 main islands, Portland ( The industrial 
 area, where you start ) , Staunton Island ( The commercial area ) and Shoreside Vale ( The residential 
 area ) . After you complete the required missions in Portland, you can proceed to the next island, 
 and so forth.
  
  Story: As i eluded to earlier, you and your girlfriend are doing a job, and as your getting away, 
 she shoots you with a shotgun and leaves him to get arrested. You break out with a friend and escape 
 from the police thru Liberty City until they lose interest in your ass. The guy, 8-Ball, gives 
 you a place to stay at. You befriend the local mafia lord and eventually, the other gangs ( Diablo's, 
 Yakuza, etc ) . At the end of the game, you meet up with your now ex-girlfriend again and.. well.. revenge 
 time.
  
  Graphics and Sound: Time for the good, and the bad. The graphics are great, very realistic for 
 what you'd expect The car's look like actual cars, and not 5 or 6 rectangles put together with 
 color. My only dislike about them ( Mind you, only for the PC version ) is that, unless you have 
 a good pc, the game will lag because of them. With my PC at the time ( 733 mhz P3, 256 ram, 32 
 mb video card ) , i could NOT have the camera tilted up, or even straight forward. I had to almost 
 continuously keep the camera pointed at the ground, which really hurts the gameplay. If you have 
 a good PC by todays standards, then it'll be fine. As for the sounds, they were great. The majority 
 of the sounds in the game will come from the radio stations. When you are inside of a car, you 
 have a choice of about 10 radio stations that you can listen to, which comprise of music, and hilarious 
 talk radio. On the PC version, you also have an MP3 player station, where you can listen to your 
 own MP3's, which is a great bonus.
  
  Replayability: This is definately a game you wanna play after you've finished it. Even after you've 
 completed all the missions, you can always go around and cause general mayhem and murder, which 
 is always fun.
  
  Final Recommendation: All in all, i give this game an 8.5 out of 10. GTA3 is a great game, filled 
 with prostitues, death, destructions, drugs and money. If you get a chance to play this game, please 
 do, but unless your PC is better then mine was, id advise you to get the PS2 version, to avoid 
 the graphics lag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_of_fire
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 21, 2004 8:51 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game I was not amazed or anything it's the gameplay that got me into 
 this game and I really loved, you might be thinking that why did i rate this game this low and 
 not like gamespot that's because I played the whole game.
  
  I couldn't rate GTA3 good enough because look at the graphics, they have gilitches and look at 
 the sound it messes up. I sure like it when I got some modifications for it and they made it more 
 interesting. I sure liked the missions and I really liked the cars. I think the radio and mp3 player 
 was really entertaining. 
  
  I would like everybody to try this game, its a great game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epicsoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2004 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Coming from the game that had an over-head view, this game made the series what it is!. It is amazing, 
 and so fun to play. Even though the graphics don't really keep up to what is expecting these days, 
 this game's gameplay fills in on the note. This game is addicting and really easy to lose hours 
 just going around killing random people, (not to mention the hookers) beating people down, stealing 
 cars, even doing the missions is a great deal of fun. The game has a few issues and should have 
 been online ( : ( ) but it's just to fun to play. And you can listen to your own music, or the funny 
 radio stations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ULTIMA-Demon
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2004 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto is the game that smashed the barriers of fun, excitement, and moral values. This 
 game only got better almost a year later when it came out for the PC. The third in the GTA series 
 and the first fully 3D Grand Theft Auto game. With its sequels, GTA: Vice City for the PC and 
 PS2 and GTA: San Andreas for PS2 and coming soon for PC, the GTA series is becoming somewhat of 
 an icon.
  The graphics of this game are a major upgrade from the previous versions. Fully 3D environments 
 are only better on the PC with a farther draw distance and sharper resolutions. The sound is great 
 too. 
  The gameplay is awesome, although lacking when compared too the sequels. Even so, there is still 
 plenty to do in this game and should keep you entertained for a long time. As the games name suggests, 
 you will be doing a lot of car thieving, killing, and looting. 
  
  If you have never played a GTA game before, you are in for a treat. This one is definitely worth 
 picking up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imperialarc
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 1, 2004 12:32 pm PT
Review:  This is quite possibly the most fun I've had in a game. Although I have never played previous GTA 
 games, this one is an instant classic. I was hooked on this game for nearly a whole month without 
 regard to other things in my life. The controversy over this game is understandable but unlike 
 other things in life, it is just a game.
  
  The graphics are not something to praise about but that is easily overlooked by how extremely fun 
 it is to beat up random people on the street, run them over or become a hit-man for the mob on 
 missions. Wreaking havoc over the city is not without its limits though, the police are most annoying 
 but they bring a challenge. In all, get this game now if you don't already have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Lae
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 26, 2004 11:48 am PT
Review:  The sirens flooded the night, banshee-like wails warning me to stay away - or perhaps calling me 
 to them. I needed a car. My previous one had taken one too many and now lay upside down beside 
 me, charcoal frame still crushing the man who had unwittingly been walking down the alley only 
 thirty seconds before. I had to escape, and fast. One more body on the final toll would make no 
 difference. Luckily I had a few shells left. Liberty City was going to pay.
  
  The alley vanished behind me and my feet took on a demon of their own, propelling me across the 
 road where two cars narrowly avoided hitting me. I let the first go - a minivan was of no use to 
 me. The second driver wasn't quite so lucky. A quick wrench on the handle and his collar and he 
 was lying on the road, cursing at me. "Hey man, that's my car! What are you doing?"
  
  I answered his question with my shotgun.
  
  The engine roared with a ferocity to match the 
 sirens, and as I turned onto the road ahead, two police cars skidded over the sidewalk and came 
 for me. Somewhere else I could hear the rotors of a helicopter and knew I didn't have much time. 
 They wanted me down and part of me didn't blame them. The prostitutes. Pedestrians. Dozens of innocent 
 city-dwellers killed in the most horrible of fashions, from a sniper blast to the explosion and 
 flames of a rocket to their car. Hundreds of casualties. Cops, too. And now they hungered.
  
  The next road brought less freedom than I hoped. Another cop car rammed into my side and sent 
 me spinning into the other lane where a fish truck blared its horn and smashed head-on into my 
 already crumpled car.
  
  Cops cars were converging from all over. That helicopter hovered overhead. A large army transport 
 screeched to a halt and no doubt there would even be something far more sinister on its way.
  
  I kicked my door open and slid an uzi out of my belt. They weren't here to take me in; they 
 were here to take me down. But they weren't going to do that without a fight.
  
  "Put your hands up!" someone cried through a megaphone. "Put down your weapons!"
  
  The speaker 
 was kneeling behind his car, an overturned fish truck beside him. Several blasts with the shotgun 
 blew the tank and incinerated him. The rest of the cops started firing.
  
  The bullets began to take their toll, though comfort came with half a dozen police falling to my 
 shotgun. As its empty carcass clattered on the ground and the uzi lifted to spit its own fire, 
 a tank crashed through the furthest police cars towards me.
  
  The cacophony of screams, explosions, and gunfire filled my ears. Troops began pouring from the 
 tank. They had a purpose, and with it fulfilled, I wouldn't live out the night. They raised their 
 guns.
  
  I jammed down the trigger and charged towards them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuruptt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2004 8:57 am PT
Review:  GRAND THEFT AUTO III for the year of 2002 was the best game that the world ever had when the game 
 was out for playstation 2 the PC Gamers where waitin for it like me when GRAND THEFT AUTO III was 
 out for PC i buyed it and i'd liked it of course the gameplay was great it has a lot of fun the 
 missions are easy but i enjoyed it when i first strated this game i was in the new world it was 
 like huh this game is awesome normally for this year as it is 2004 this game its not good you know 
 vice city is better and now its waitin for San Andreas etc. the graphics in this game are awesome 
 you can see a lot of things clearly even you can see the airplane in the air thats very good the 
 sound its very good too they worked for these 2 things i think 1 year so it mean to be played i 
 love to play again Gta 3 & vice cit.. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
