-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Great War Nations: The Spartans
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/greatwarnationsthespartans/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Base-building RTS action sticks close to a familiar formula.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Too much micromanagement.
 Wonky AI and terrible pathfinding.
 A few visual kinks.
 LAN-only multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 21, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 5.4, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 5.2, 105 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Dreamcatcher
Genre: Strategy
Date:     May 5, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Excessive micromanagement and simple-minded missions make Great War Nations: The Spartans more chore 
 than game. 

  Micromanagement is the only memorable aspect of Great War Nations: The Spartans, and not because 
 it's a good thing. This base-building real-time strategy game from developer World Force is a paint-by-numbers 
 production in every way, except for the extra steps that give you greater control over the finer 
 aspects of researching technologies and equipping troops. However, each of these amenities is of 
 questionable value, and they're so finicky and out of place in such a simplistic game that you'll 
 quickly grow tired of all the fussing around and long for traditional RTS production lines.  

 
  Design basics are straightforward. This is a formulaic RTS game along the lines of Age of Empires, 
 albeit a stripped-down model with two brief campaigns and multiplayer supported only through LAN. 
 Despite the title, the campaigns actually have you guide the armies of both the Spartans and the 
 Macedonians in a total of 14 missions. Expect to be disappointed if you're looking for a pure "This 
 is Sparta!" experience in which you slaughter thousands of evil Persians.  

           The multistep process of creating cavalry will have you longing for the production-line 
 automation of a typical RTS.      

  The two main factions here are virtually identical, and they also match up perfectly with the Egyptians 
 and Persians, which are available as playable nations only in skirmish play. Most differences are 
 purely cosmetic, with bases, units, and buildings varying in name only from one faction to the 
 next. Common shock troops are the same aside from appearance and name, which means that they're 
 interchangeable in the way that they're deployed, regardless of whether you're using Spartan Spartiates, 
 Macedonian Hetairoi, Egyptian Mighty Nadsez, or Persian Nobles. Only the Persians and Egyptians 
 feel a bit offbeat, due to units such as war elephants and specialized priests, and even then many 
 of their structures function the same as those of their Greek cousins.  

  Campaign missions are generic adventures in building up bases, gathering the same old wood, gold, 
 and food, and grinding out the dozens of troops needed to destroy enemy bases. Great War Nations: 
 The Spartans sticks to a familiar formula just about every step of the way. The only significant 
 difference between it and a few hundred other RTS games is a fixation on micromanagement. You have 
 to take a hands-on role when raising your armies instead of, for example, simply building barracks 
 to crank out ground troops and stables to produce cavalry. Here, barracks are solely for creating 
 soldiers, whereas stables are solely for creating horses. So if you want to field some cavalry 
 units, you have to create riders and horses in separate production runs in separate buildings and 
 then order your soldiers to jump on their mounts. This is sort of innovative, and certainly more 
 realistic than the standard RTS in which you order up horses and riders together like Happy Meals 
 from a drive-thru window. But the end result is still a stereotypical RTS cavalry unit, so all 
 of this extra messing around amounts to nothing more than senseless busywork.  

  Other aspects of base management are just as irritating. Rather than simply researching new weapon 
 and armor technologies in a single building to unlock troop types in the barracks, you have to 
 follow a multistep process. First you research techs such as cold hammering and bronze casting 
 in the forge. Then you have to switch to the workshop to construct the new weapons and armor (short 
 swords, giant axes, round shields, and so on) that were revealed by your forge discoveries. Finally, 
 you have to add these new items to soldier loadout specifications in the barracks and set up troop-design 
 templates for production. The above example uses Spartan building types, but all three nations 
 function in the same fashion with differently named structures. So the game remains the same even 
 if you're controlling the Egyptians, who have houses of knowledge in place of workshops and weapons 
 houses in place of forges.  

  At first, it's nifty to custom-craft your troops and experiment with different weapon and armor 
 combos. Being able to fool around with different-sized shields and exotic weapons such as the Egyptian 
 khopesh makes you feel like a real general outfitting an army. Additional military obligations 
 during and after battles further this atmosphere. You can manually order troops to switch from 
 melee to ranged weapons during fights, and even send workers onto battlefields after the dust settles 
 to scavenge horses and weapons.  

  Yet the extra fuss here just isn't worth the extra bother, especially in such a simplistic game 
 loaded with dull search-and-destroy missions that never involve tactical thinking. All you ever 
 have to do on a map is churn out troops as quickly as possible and hurl them at the enemy base, 
 so all of this fine-tuning and foraging soon seems like a total waste of time. Scrounging weapons 
 and armor from fallen enemies is particularly bothersome, too, because the automatic gathering 
 command doesn't work and you have to manually direct workers to pick up every abandoned sword and 
 bow. In a more measured, more tactical RTS without so much nonstop combat, these sorts of considerations 
 might add a lot of depth; in a simple-minded, fast-flowing game like this one, they just add a 
 lot of irritation.  

           Busywork such as farming and gathering dropped weapons from battlefields makes missions 
 slow and tedious.      

  Other aspects of play are also somewhat annoying. Enemy AI is reasonable when it comes to attacking, 
 although it tends to harass you with small probing assaults rather than building serious armies 
 with the capability of razing your buildings and inspiring the lamentations of your women. Friendly 
 AI is deeply dumb, with units so stunned that they often have to be manually guided through narrow 
 sections on maps, such as gateways into enemy fortresses. Units are also picky regarding where 
 you click on them, which forces you to make numerous tries before landing on the magic spot that 
 lets you select them. Both of these elements make it seem as if you're never really in total control 
 of your army.  

  Visuals are a little better than you might expect from such a budget production, with brightly 
 colored maps and units, smooth animations, and an impressive range of small details when it comes 
 to workers slaving away at fields, bellows, and the like. But these pluses are just about ruined 
 by flickering, artifacting, a shudder effect that makes the whole screen seem to shimmer, and no 
 support for widescreen monitors. Camera angles aren't great, either, due mainly to an inability 
 to scroll out far enough to get a good look at the map. Audio is of slightly higher quality. Battle 
 effects and order acknowledgements are appropriately bombastic, and the soundtrack features haunting 
 tunes such as the ominous, flute-heavy Egyptian score.  

  Unless you're interested in overly fussy, old-fashioned RTS gaming, give Great War Nations: The 
 Spartans a pass. Some of the ideas here are interesting to play around with for a couple of hours, 
 but the novelty of turning out troops by hand soon wears off in the face of the game's slavish 
 adherence to RTS formula and monotonous base-destroying missions.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: IonBlaster4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 2:20 pm PT
Review:  ITs a great game, really. Yes, the graphics are cool, but people really dont like it because of 
 one annoying thing, it takes too long, so what? If you dont have any patience in games dont play 
 them! Games should take patience. If you want to beat a game in 3 hours go play halo. That game 
 is horrible. Spartans is fun though. IT has a ton of weapons, ton of levels, ton of resources! 
 What people dont like too is the glitch where your guys get stuck behind walls and you cant see 
 them. So what? Make a sqaure with your mouse and move them you lazy bum! Its not that hard! They 
 also hate how it takes about 2 hours each level. I find that great! Games should take patience, 
 not 2 minutes. This is why Spartans is a great game but people underestimate it.
  
  ALSO this game shoudl NOT be rated m, possibly rated T, but rated E for the most part. There are 
 a few swear words but very basic ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynamicfa1
Rating: 3
Date: May 10, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  Complete rip off  identical to the "Ancient Wars: Sparta" game that came out last year
  
  First it is important to know that this game is identical to the "Ancient Wars: Sparta" game that 
 came out last year.
  The campaign may be a little different but everything else is identical.
  So if you want this 
 game so bad then just buy the "Ancient Wars: Sparta" game for half the price ($20) .
  
  Other than that the game has many issues.
  To name some of them:
  Terrible unit path finding, 
 various bugs, slow economic and military build up, normal AI is too hard to beat, very small number 
 of maps to play with, and so on.
  It's important to note that "Ancient Wars: Sparta" never got patched despite all these issues, 
 so don't expect a patch for this game.
  
  Overall the game is average (5-6 out of 10 score) , but I gave it 3 because it is identical to "Ancient 
 Wars: Sparta" game that came out last year.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
