-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Great Invasions
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/greatinvasions/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Huge scope dealing with Europe during late antiquity and the early Middle Ages.
 Great historical feel with an amazing amount of detail.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Terrible documentation and steep learning curve never make for a pretty mix.
 Multiheaded nations can be very confusing to control.
 Dated visuals and sound.
 Lots of fit and finish problems, including numerous typos.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  9, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.8
Critic Score: 5.3, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 5.3, 82 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Strategy First
Developer: Nobilis
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date:     Mar 16, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This RTS has great historical flavor and scope, though the documentation and overall playability 
 leave something to be desired. 

  Adjust your expectations significantly downward and you might be able to wring some enjoyment out 
 of Great Invasions: The Dark Ages 350-1066 AD. This real-time strategy game from French developer 
 Indie Games Productions (originally released in Europe in 2005) may be a second-stringer in comparison 
 with the Europa Universalis franchise that it mimics, but this intricate epic piles on the details 
 for historical gamers who want more of a textbook feel than that offered by the likes of EU III. 
 Just expect to spend a lot of time figuring this one out, as some odd design decisions, along with 
 interface and documentation shortcomings, make it one of the most complicated strategy games you'll 
 ever play.  

          Strict adherence to history means that you know when events are coming, such as the Vandal 
 capture of Carthage, and can prepare accordingly.     

  Considering the game's lineage, its complex personality isn't a surprise. Great Invasions is the 
 product of Philippe Thibault, who crafted the original cardboard edition of Europa Universalis 
 and helped developer Paradox Interactive first adapt that game to the PC. This new effort is similar 
 in tone to that predecessor, although it lacks the peculiar charm of the Paradox title while retaining 
 the foibles that have made the EU series such an acquired taste. The biggest problem here is terrible 
 documentation of the game's tremendous scope. Even though the subject matter spans over 700 of 
 the most tumultuous years in European history and includes six campaigns ranging from a grand campaign 
 to involved historical scenarios like Justinian's attempt to reconquer the Roman West in the 500s 
 and the mayhem of the mid-fourth century during the reign of Constantius II, the two brief tutorials 
 are worthless and the manual is a mere 24-page pamphlet. You need more of a leg up than that, especially 
 given your ability to run multistate medieval empires that encompass more than 80 states and a 
 couple dozen ethnic groups.  

  As with EU and other daunting Paradox games like Victoria and Crusader Kings, you'll need to get 
 days, if not weeks, of play under your belt before you understand what's going on. And as with 
 EU and its ilk, the interface is woefully inadequate. A blizzard of pop-ups assail the screen from 
 the moment you start playing, demanding your decision on such matters as waging war on Persia or 
 supporting an allied power's war on a third party, or just simply recognizing that the Huns are 
 pushing the Alans west and barbarians will soon be invading your territory (the game definitely 
 deserves its name) . Many of the most important questions that you're presented with show up right 
 at the very start of campaigns, and they arrive without any historical background giving you the 
 information needed to say "yea" or "nay" with confidence. A wrong call at this stage can ruin whole 
 games, as we found out when we foolishly allowed a vassal state to draw the Eastern Roman Empire 
 into a full-blown war with Sassanid Persia at the beginning of a sixth-century campaign. Restart 
 or say goodbye to that dream of holding on to Northern Africa and Italy, Justinian.  

  Even worse, Great Invasions adds a whole new level of complication by forcing you to control numerous 
 quasi-independent states instead of single powers. So rather than choosing, say, the Western Roman 
 Empire or Persia or the Huns or whatever, you start a campaign by selecting the red, blue, green, 
 or yellow team, which includes a range of allied nations and groups. In the 375 campaign, for example, 
 the red group includes both halves of the Roman Empire, the Franks, the Irish principalities, and 
 the Catholic Church, while the blues feature Western barbarians like the Goths and Picts; the greens, 
 Northern tribes like the Saxons and Angles; and the yellows, Eastern powers like Persia and the 
 Huns. This adds an enormous amount of confusion to gameplay, as you have to make independent decisions 
 for all of these states and factions. For instance, you could start a war between your Eastern 
 Roman Empire and Persia but maintain relatively cordial relations between your Western Roman Empire 
 and those same Persians.  

  As you might expect, this provides for some fascinating strategic options -- although all of the 
 possible permutations will make your head spin. In the end, it feels too much like you're involved 
 in two or three games simultaneously, never getting the time to play any one of them properly. 
 Just when you get things sorted out with the Saxons in Britain, there's a revolt against the Eastern 
 Romans in Egypt or Alamanni trade demands arising in the West. You also never get to focus on a 
 single aspect of the game itself, as the focus is spread too thin among straight-out imperial conquering 
 and more esoteric concerns such as the battles between different Christian philosophies. This is 
 good in some ways, because it allows for a fascinating historical overview of the political and 
 religious turmoil that marked late antiquity and the early medieval era. But it's mostly just frustrating 
 because it's hard to care about a Monophysite revolt in Judea when you're dealing with an incursion 
 of Huns, or vice versa, and the pop-up-reliant interface makes you rush from one hot spot to another, 
 never taking the time to really get a handle on any one crisis.  

  Other aspects of the game don't mitigate the complexity. There are three settings to govern how 
 the solo campaigns play out, but all have flaws. The default historical preset option provides 
 the most history-book flavor, but it's so close to what really happened that you can cheat if you 
 have any awareness of dates or one of those "This Day in History" books covering the time period 
 open on your desk. The other two options -- historical open and fantasia -- loosen things up somewhat, 
 although they both sacrifice some of the historical authenticity. Multiplayer is also available, 
 but you need to know the IP address of your opponent because there's no matching server to facilitate 
 finding games.  

          The scope of Great Invasions means that one moment you're fighting on the Euphrates, the 
 next you're fighting on the Thames.     

  Presentation values themselves just may date back to the Norman conquest of England. The game doesn't 
 require much more than a map and a few menu screens, although they are all of sub-EU quality. Resolution 
 is fixed at 1024x768, and the scrolling is incredibly twitchy and can't be adjusted. Typos and 
 grammatical errors, presumably introduced when translating the original game's French into English, 
 are everywhere. They range from relatively harmless misspellings like "Wisigoth" to nonsensical 
 paragraphs that defy decryption. Audio is pretty much nonexistent, save for an overly bombastic 
 score that sounds like something you'd expect from a hack-and-slash RPG.  

  As with so many historical strategy games, how much you get out of Great Invasions depends on how 
 much effort you're willing to put into playing it. There is a great amount of detail here dealing 
 with one of the most unexamined periods in medieval history, but Indie Games really needed to put 
 more effort into making the whole shebang easier to understand and play. This isn't a bad game 
 by any stretch of the imagination -- although it's hard to think of a less friendly one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Aikman95
Rating: 2.7
Date: Jul 11, 2007 7:35 am PT
Review:  I'll start by saying that I don't buy many games that I've never heard of. I decided to roll the 
 die on this one, and I certainly regret it. I really LIKED what I read about this game on the box; 
 700 years of history, starting with the late Roman era and ending up in 1066 was very appealing. 
 I have played Rome Total War and Medieval Total War extensively, and the idea of bridging the gap 
 between those two was very appealing. I decided to ignore caution (and read reviews) and just buy 
 it. I've never really been able to play it. The tutorial in the skimpy instruction guide does not 
 match up with what is in the game. They talk about moving your horde wagon on your fleet to Britain, 
 but that unit simply won't board a vessel. They talk about how easily it should be to conquer certain 
 territories to carve out your beginning kingdom, but I simply couldn't win the battles, as I was 
 outnumbered around 4-1. I would really like to play this game, but I simply cannot figure out how, 
 and after 4 separate attempts to do so in the two months since I bought it, I believe I've given 
 up. I can't recommend this game to anyone, unless you have some divine insight as how to play it. 
 It has some of the most annoying features I've ever seen in a game, including the inability to 
 restart the game without reloading it. That's right; once you begin a campaign, there is no exit 
 to menu option. You have to exit the entire game and reload. I believe the ability to restart a 
 game has existed since the Atari 2600. For a game to not have this function is just comically bad. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eveningsky_eric
Rating: 3
Date: Apr 29, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Games fall into five categories: Epic, good, mediocre, bad, and comedically horrible. This game 
 falls into comedically horrible. Why, you ask? I'll keep it simple: It was boring, it was complicated, 
 and the developers simply did not care for this product. This is the very first game in which I've 
 noticed a typo- not one, but several.
  
  The gameplay is complicated and boring to say the least. I still don't understand how anyone could 
 manage to extract any form of enjoyment from this neglected, complicated piece of trash.
  
  Unless you like laughing at degenerate games, I strongly urge you to buy something more entertaining, 
 like an old fashioned butter churner. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
