-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Green Berets
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/greenberets/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 22, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.7
Critic Score: 6.3, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 5.8, 12 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Take-Two Interactive
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Jul 26, 2001
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Enemy-packed level design contributes to a single-player experience that is significantly harder 
 on the normal difficulty level than the notoriously challenging Myth and Myth II single-player 
 campaigns. 

  Since the game's release at the end of 1998, Myth II: Soulblighter's vibrant mod community has 
 released some surprisingly diverse scenarios, which have changed the game's native fantasy units 
 into things ranging from Legos to WWII-era soldiers to mechs -- all thanks to the powerful editing 
 tools shipped with the game and Myth II's stalwart multiplayer community. A total conversion that 
 focuses on the actions of a Special Forces A-Team in Vietnam, Green Berets is a testament to the 
 skill of Myth mod makers, several of whom were hired by Take-Two to produce the title professionally. 
 Green Berets' jungle maps and more than a dozen new units do a convincing job of converting Myth 
 II to a modern military setting, but the total conversion's dependence on the original game's artificial 
 intelligence and game mechanics create a number of gameplay flaws that further heighten the frustrating 
 difficulty of the single-player missions.           Calling down an air strike is a satisfying 
 way to deal with enemies.    

  Green Berets is remarkably similar in style to the popular WWII multiplayer mods freely available 
 for Myth II. What most separates it from the diverse amateur efforts that precede it is the single-player 
 campaign. The 10 single-player missions are joined together by a minimum of storytelling, which 
 just serves to set up the current military objective -- downed or captured US personnel to rescue, 
 a communications tower to destroy, or an isolated base to protect -- that sends your small elite 
 band into the jungle. Considering that lush tropical vegetation is a constant across nearly all 
 the maps, the mission environments are satisfyingly diverse and use rivers, rice paddies, defensible 
 cliffs, sandbags, and base fortifications to present varying tactical challenges. One of the nicer 
 realism touches added to the outdoor environments is that the trees collapse into a pile of branches 
 and fronds when exposed to explosive weapons fire, which isn't even the case in Myth II itself. 
 In contrast, the one mission that takes place indoors, in which you crawl through a series of narrow 
 supply tunnels, stands out as an unattractive, claustrophobic counterpoint.   

  Whatever the location or the mission, most of your energy will go into mowing down scripted waves 
 of North Vietnamese soldiers. As you'd expect from the modern combat setting, Green Berets' emphasis 
 is on ranged fighting with automatic and semiautomatic weapons, which are exceedingly lethal in 
 skilled hands. For this reason, your commandos generally function like the hero units from Myth 
 II, such that even a single carefully controlled unit can deal out a tremendous amount of damage. 
 However, your units are also realistically susceptible to damage on the normal difficulty setting. 
 This means that when you do manage to successfully complete missions, the kill count is often in 
 the vicinity of a hundred enemies per level -- but it's also very easy to succumb to the onslaught. 
 Enemy-packed level design contributes to a single-player experience that is significantly harder 
 on the normal difficulty level than the notoriously challenging Myth and Myth II single-player 
 campaigns.           Problems with unit AI make some of the missions inordinately difficult.   

  Green Berets' general dependence on Myth II mechanics also translates into some frustrating flaws 
 that make things even more difficult. The modern weapons in Green Berets deal out tremendous damage 
 and shoot in near-flat trajectories, a significant departure from the melee and archer combat that 
 the Myth II engine was originally designed for. In a world of rangers carrying .50-cal machine 
 guns or M-16s with underbarrel rocket grenade launchers, it's pretty dangerous to move your men 
 about in formation -- but the game unfortunately locks a selected group into the last used formation 
 for subsequent movement orders, and you'll need to use band select even in harrowing situations 
 because there are no control group hotkeys. But these are just small issues in comparison to the 
 general inadequacy of the unit AI. Your units often won't fire at nearby enemies on their own even 
 when they're facing the right direction. And when they do fire, the unit AI can't be relied upon 
 to make sure there's line of sight from the gun to the enemy. While this wouldn't necessarily be 
 a problem in the high-trajectory world of Myth archer battles, too often you'll see your unit fire 
 into the ground when on high or rolling terrain only to get hit in the head by return fire. In 
 many situations, you'll have enough time to precisely control a small group of commandos yourself 
 and avoid these pesky unit behavior problems. But the game's climactic base-defense mission is 
 nigh impossible but on the easiest difficulty setting because enemies are coming from all directions 
 and you can't depend on your elite units to fire on rushing suicide bombers 20 feet away.   

  As a multiplayer expansion, Green Berets is more satisfying and adds a wealth of map options 
 to a multiplayer community that now, two years after the game's release, is often splintered between 
 mods that must be downloaded and installed. Both the US and North Vietnamese units appear in the 
 numerous map variations, and even the rather unbalanced helicopter and artillery support units 
 make an appearance on the largest team maps. Green Berets works as a standard mod plug-in for Myth 
 II multiplayer and connects to the Bungie. net service for convenient player matching. While Bungie. net 
 serves just a fraction of the players it used to when Myth II was newer, it's nonetheless easy 
 to find players with Green Berets installed. As a single-player game, Green Berets falls below 
 the standard set by the original Myth games and is hampered by a generally unpolished presentation, 
 unit AI problems, and unbalanced missions. Myth II must be installed separately to play Green Berets, 
 so this budget-priced total conversion includes a copy of the original game in the box, which makes 
 a nice bonus for the new players daring enough to pick up Green Berets despite its difficulty. 
 Myth fans may enjoy the novelty of new solo missions and multiplayer maps that add a good number 
 of new units, but veterans in the community could likely name a number of free mods that match 
 the quality of Green Berets on a smaller scale.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (0 Reviews)
-------------------------------------------------
