-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Grim Fandango
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/adventure/grimfandango/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 30, 1998
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.3
Critic Score: 9.3, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 9.4, 2,985 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Genre: Adventure
Date:     Sep 30, 1998 &raquo;  

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
In addition to being a very good adventure game, it features great writing and beautiful art direction. 
 

 Adventure game designers face a difficult task. The genre is by its very nature linear and serves 
 primarily to tell stories, but without puzzles, there's no game. Combining these two elements is 
 the challenge. The story must be intricate and engaging enough to make the inclusion of puzzles 
 seem plausible, and the puzzles must be clever enough to not jump out as an artificial roadblock 
 for the story. It's the rare game that meets one of these goals, let alone both. But Grim Fandango, 
 the latest from Tim Schafer of Full Throttle and Day of the Tentacle fame, achieves this delicate 
 combination and more. In addition to being a very good adventure game, it features great writing 
 and beautiful art direction.   

 Grim Fandango is based upon Mexican folklore, set in the land of the dead. You play Manny Calavera, 
 employee of the Department of Death and travel agent to newly dead souls who are just setting out 
 on the treacherous four-year journey to the ninth underworld. Employees of the DOD, as it is called, 
 are souls who must work off debts from their previous lives in order to earn their own passage 
 to the final resting place. To pay off the debts, agents must accrue a certain number of premium 
 souls, those of the virtuous who have earned more pleasant means of passage, the ultimate of which 
 is the Number Nine, a bullet-train that makes the journey in a more desirable four days.  

 But Manny is down on his luck. His clients never qualify for the premium packages. And even when 
 he meets one that does, the saintly Mercedes Colomar, he can't seem to find a suitably saintly 
 mode of transportation, reluctantly setting her off on foot into the dangerous world beyond. But 
 Colomar's case will lead Manny to the discovery that all is not as it seems in the DOD, and he 
 will set out on his own journey to set things right. The game follows four years of Manny's afterlife 
 as he travels through a variety of fantastic locales, searching for Mercedes and the real source 
 of corruption.  

 You will lead Manny through the city of El Marrow, the port town Rubacava, a mining colony at the 
 edge of the world, and the gates of the ninth underworld itself. Each location is distinct, with 
 its own atmosphere and interesting characters. The visual design is consistently great, drawing 
 upon various Latin American sources, such as angular Aztec stonework and the stylized Day of the 
 Dead skeletons, and using them to create modern buildings and vehicles such as cruise ships and 
 casinos. The sound is equally impressive, with great voice acting, distinct sound effects, and 
 a diverse and subtle score by Peter McConnell which ranges from mariachi to jazz.  

 But the writing is where Grim Fandango earns the most praise. Parodying film noir cliches has become 
 a cliche unto itself, and Grim Fandango thankfully avoids the obvious. This isn't just a faux Sam 
 Spade mystery. Instead, the game draws upon darker and more complex sources, with Chinatown, Casablanca, 
 and even David Mamet's Glengarry Glen Ross lurking in its shadows. And there are very few jokes 
 in the game, but it is funny. It derives its humor from its situations and characters (such as 
 Manny's oversized sidekick, Glottis) without making fun of itself, helping to create a believable 
 world.  

 The puzzles help to maintain this believability. While traditional in nature, they are worked into 
 the storyline well. And they are varied, both in style and difficulty. For the most part, you'll 
 have a series of known objectives to complete before moving on to the next locale. These objectives 
 are complex, though, and often the solutions will have multiple parts. You'll undoubtedly be stumped 
 more than once, but the solutions are logical and subtle clues are plentiful.   

 Grim Fandango is not a typical LucasArts adventure. It's the first from the company to dispense 
 with traditional 2D animation and move to the more cinematic 3D style made popular with Infogrames' 
 Alone in the Dark games, and also utilized in Origin Systems' underrated Bioforge. It uses a keyboard-driven 
 interface instead of the traditional point-and-click, and Manny signals significant objects by 
 turning his head and looking as he passes by. Grim Fandango overcomes the major problems with this 
 style, so only rarely will you be frustrated by disorienting camera-angle switching or feel lost 
 because of an obscure exit.  

 It would be remiss to avoid mention of Grim Fandango's minor technical faults (such as the strange 
 behavior exhibited by almost every elevator in the game) . But these are unfortunate drawbacks to 
 an otherwise great game. The one real problem with Grim Fandango is that the end comes too soon. 
 This isn't because it's too short (it should take most a good two- to three-dozen hours) , but because 
 the designers have created a rich world that you won't want to leave, filled with memorable characters 
 that are hard to say goodbye to. Don't be surprised if you're sad when it's over.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (103 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Thongman
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2009 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Grim Fandango is a rather unique experience which involves the ridiculous concepts being... totally 
 sane. The story-telling of Manny and his search for his lost client is told in such comical surrealism 
 that the world becomes more conceptually great as it goes along.
  
  The characters are amazing, from the gambling addict Glottis, to the cynically dry clown who can 
 make a perfect likeness of Robert Frost from a balloon. Combine the depth of these roles with the 
 density of the environments and their atmosphere, and they provide the perfect elements to immerse 
 yourself in the underworld.
  
  The voice acting is first-rate, and thanks to Lucasarts works on the Monkey Island series, they 
 know exactly how to pace an excellent story. The game itself is set over four years, each with 
 a distinct feel, but they still feel 100% connected.
  
  To put it relatively short: play this game. Seeing as how far PC's are now, and considering how 
 cheap the game is now, you have no excuse to miss out on this. It is a must do for any puzzle solver 
 or adventurer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaik
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  I remember a time back in high school when this game came out and it was a blast. Amazing addictive 
 story with fresh looking fabulous graphics, some of the best puzzles in te history of adventure 
 gaming, and amazing script which leave You rolling on the floor laughing.
  Some of You may not know that this game steal back then Gamespot's Game of the Year award, overcoming 
 both half-life and starcraft.
  
  Lately I bought Grim Fandango classic edition and played the game once again through and i had 
 wonderful time! Even now the graphics although dated still have a lot to offer thanks to outstanding 
 art design! The story? I wonder why nobody has made a movie based on this game!? The characters 
 are unique! The main hero Manny is unforgettable so as the rest of the cast. And music and voice 
 acting is high class! A game with so much high quality content comes out once per year or two!
 
  
  FINAL WORD
  
  If you havent played Grim Fandango yet then You cant call yourself gaming fan. Even though You 
 dont like adventure games you should know a game that have beaten both half-life and starcraft 
 in 1998 Gamespot's Best of the Year Award poll.
  
  If you played back then in the ninety's dont hesitate and refresh Your memories of the best adventure 
 game You have ever played!
  
  "Manuel? Are you... in love with her?" - Salvador Limones
  "Love? Love is for the living, Sal." - Manuel Calavera 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fandom888
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  While I was searching my gamescase for old and good games, I was really dazzled by the beauty of 
 Grim Fandango, an adventure game which I have played in the past, but have underestimated its unique 
 value back then.
  
  In this game, all you need is a good-working brain. The story of the game is, as you may see, more 
 than ideal for this puzzle games genre.
  
  You take the role of the protagonist Manny, a dead man working for the Department of Death. It 
 is not uncommon for Manny to be just a skeleton, because the game takes place in the Land of the 
 Dead, where everyone is like him. He has to ensure that his clients are going to the ninth underworld. 
 But in the beginning he doesn't seem to be so productive. But then he meets Mercedes, a client 
 which is a ble, finally, and together they will travel for four years to reach their destination, 
 fight corruptious skeletons and save the Land of the Dead.
  
  You will be guided to many places in the game, you will meet many characters, you will collect 
 many things in order to solve your way out to the ninth underworld. And the problems and puzzles 
 you have to solve are various. Not only they are progressively difficult, but they are different 
 from each other in many ways.
  
  The graphics of the game are good, providing a style which suits to film noir movies. Although 
 they have some problems. The sound is the best point of the game, with great voicing and fantastic 
 music.
  
  Grim Fandango is a very old game, which, however, deserves to be selled till nowadays in order 
 for the younger generations to learn how a real adventure-puzzle game is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dagamemonkey
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Grim Fandango is a superb, remarkable adventure game with a fantastic story and a wondrous art 
 deco world for you to explore. The game's strength comes from its undeniable charm and absolutely 
 priceless gems of humor.
  
  Gameplay is set in third person action and it mostly involves the main character running around 
 solving some clever puzzles. The main character's name is Manny and he happens to work at a "grim 
 reaper" company called the Department of Death (DOD) as a white-collar worker. He has an office, 
 a computer, a desk, a pinstripe business suit, and even a foldable scythe. The character Manuel 
 "Manny" Cavalera is a cool, smooth kind of character that is very likeable and serves as a very 
 solid protagonist. This job he and others like him have serve as the final step after death before 
 dead folks reach their final destination. While one could call it "judgment" the game cleverly 
 refers to it as someone's personal "package" to that given location. The atmosphere has a strong 
 flair of macabre content but it is not gruesome or disturbing so it is safe for young gamers. Adding 
 to that atmosphere is the film noir touch that is reminiscent of Humphrey Bogart classics such 
 as Casablanca. As a matter of fact, the game has some serious bits of silliness and good-natured 
 humor that is neither obscene nor offensive. The fact that a grim reaper wearing a pinstripe business 
 suit and happens to work in a tall office building is hilarious. The game as a whole is a fully 
 enjoyable experience because of these bits of humor and they really add to the atmosphere regardless 
 of the seemingly dark theme. I mentioned earlier that the game is mostly Manny running around the 
 area looking for clues or ways of completing puzzles. These puzzles are challenging and sometimes 
 they can be very difficult to complete as you have virtually no directions. Manny will find many 
 items throughout the game world and sometimes it is tricky to either find an item or how an item 
 is used to advance the story. The game gives the player an incentive to explore the world and by 
 doing this they can find clues, find items, and meet new people. Manny can interact with almost 
 everything in the world in some way whether it be just a quick quip about an object or actually 
 picking it up and adding it to his inventory. You also should take advantage of the ability to 
 select questions and answers during a conversation with other characters to learn clues and gain 
 insight. The story itself begins with a seemingly simple concept but then things get hairy because 
 soon Manny finds himself head-deep in an undercover conspiracy. The story will literally suck you 
 in no matter how much you think you might know about plot twists. Fortunately, the gameplay in 
 this game is basic, and that is a good thing because there are many head-scratching conundrums 
 to fill any gaps.
  
  Graphics in Grim Fandango sports a beautifully-rendered art deco world called "Land of the Dead" 
 appropriately. This world looks as if it was set in the 1950s such as with the cars and the buildings, 
 and each and every thing from a window view to a street view of the city looks masterfully well 
 done. The big city is the first major level you will explore but there are other very imaginative 
 environments as well. Roaming around inside buildings is a lot of fun because there is much detail 
 and many very realistic artistic animations like sliding elevator doors and sliding windows. Environments 
 are rendered very, very well and many things in the environments are interactive and they function 
 superbly. Most of the world looks very real but items that are useable or that serve some sort 
 of purpose in the story look either suspicious or cartoony which indicates it can be interacted 
 with in some way. The character models are designed not only very cleverly but also very well. 
 The white-collar employees of the DOD are all skeletons but they look more cute than evil or dark. 
 Aside from all the skeletons the game features a whole plethora of other characters with their 
 own looks and styles, and this incredible and lovable cast just adds more to the game's appeal. 
 The game also has some cutscenes which wonderfully string the story along with some terrific humor. 
 This game contains some truly magnificent graphical masterpieces that really make the game unique.
 
  
  Sound in this game is easily #1 even next to its awesome gameplay and stunning graphics. And it 
 is largely due to the extensive and professional voice work performed for each character. The main 
 character Manny will probably be your favorite character because he is soft-spoken, smooth, and 
 collected. He speaks clearly and he articulates the spoken word very well even through a tint of 
 a Hispanic accent. And on that same note, the game seems to have a Spanish theme in some places 
 and often Manny will briefly speak Spanish such as "buenos dias" and other common sayings. The 
 accent seems to add more likability to his character. Other characters' voices were also well done 
 such as the secretary of the DOD who happens to sound like Fran Drescher. Manny has a boss and 
 he is about as stereotypical as bosses go and he is reminiscent of Peter Parker's J. Jonah Jameson-and 
 he sounds like him, too. There are a few mild expletives such as "ass" but never anything obscene. 
 The game also features some very clever cutscenes that are not only funny but also they mesh out 
 the already amazing story to a fuller extent. The game also has some very soothing and original 
 scores of music that is instrumental only and they are excellently executed. Overall sound in this 
 game is wonderful.
  
  Grim Fandango is a game that may not be for everyone because it can be extremely difficult when 
 it comes to its puzzles. Though its storyline is deep and filled with twists and turns it may not 
 click even with some adventure fans because some of those trickier puzzles are brutal. I will go 
 as far as to say that some of them will give you a headache after a while. Though, if this is the 
 kind of game you like you will pleasure in being sucked into this tremendously huge and engrossing 
 world. And even if you do not like adventure games this game is worth a look because of its originality 
 and art deco presentation. Unfortunately, the game is very difficult to find but should you find 
 it somewhere it would definitely be worth your immediate purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donmoster
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2008 12:31 am PT
Review:  Simply amazing. Timeless masterpiece and work of art. Graphics, voice acting PLOT, EVERYTHING! 
 Even now, years after I played it for the first time, I remember this game with almost a tear on 
 my eye. Absolutely amazing, and you will be proud to know you have at last, played a game that 
 meant something else than the usual. This game is the one you show proudle as one of the unusual 
 ones that truly are meant to mean something to you. I dare to say, that games like these go over 
 the usual and show us the real storytelling potential videogames have, and could eventually be 
 there with movies books and others. Game makers: learn from this game! Players: Learn to play games 
 like these, find them and enjoy them, and hopefully we will see a change in the industry and find 
 more like this one.
  Doesnt matter if you have a PC so powerful its smarter than you. Go back, and play this game, now! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fightgarr
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 30, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Grim Fandango is a beautiful game about the struggles of a man in the grim reaper business getting 
 screwed over by the MAN! Its creative and challenging (really challenging, really frustratingly 
 f*cking challenging) and doesn't sell out to the whole "it worked for this game so we'll do it" 
 approach. This is a great example of what Lucasarts can do when its not busy fingering around the 
 jam jar of Star Wars for a new plot.
  
  Grim Fandango is one of the great settings and concepts I've seen in all my years in gaming. I 
 love the super-stylized graphics and the voice-acting is great. It has a great thing going for 
 it and that is immersion, you really feel a part of it as you're doing it, and you'll get really 
 into figuring it all out. Of course figuring out that you're supposed to put object X in position 
 Y may taking you an hour but when you figure it out you're more satisfied than beating most games 
 (especially since this game makes a modern shooter on the hardest difficulty look PISS EASY) .
 
  
  This game is what gaming should be and if you don't agree its because your too thick to figure 
 out how to play because this game what you can actually legitimately call CHALLENGING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smchacko
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 10:33 pm PT
Review:  ======== QUICK REVIEW =====
  Grim Fandango's story, characters and humorous writing outweigh it's age and clunky controls. It 
 is likely in the current top 10 best adventure games and should definitely be played.
  
  DETAILS
  
  ======== GOOD =======
  -- Graphically Grim Fandango has stood the test of time. 
 Each "room" has a beautiful pre-rendered background and follows a "color on dark" style similar 
 to Batman; The Animated Series.
  -- Characters are cartoony skeletons with clothes, and it works perfectly without any complex textures.
 
  -- Dialog is fully spoken speech and the voice acting is next to perfect. There are tons of great 
 jokes and subtle hints throughout the game and character talk never gets dragged on.
  -- The background music usually has a catchy, jazzy feel to it, and it never gets in the way of 
 the experience. 
  
  ======== BAD =========
  -- No mouse support, only keyboard or gamepad.
  -- Maneuvering the character through sections 
 can sometime be a little annoying but this is a minor problem.
  -- A handful of the puzzles (especially in the second section Rubacava) are unintuitive or a tad 
 too intricate... Kitty Hat Day?!
  
  MORE DETAILS
  
  ======== STORY =======
  Manuel (Manny) Calavera resides in the Land of the Dead selling afterlife packages to recently 
 deceased people. The best package is a golden ticket on the "Number 9 train" to heaven, for those 
 who have lived pure lives. Manny soon discovers there is corruption within the business; someone 
 is cheating good people out of golden tickets and selling them to dishonest people for the right 
 price. Manny must find out who is behind this scam and put a stop to it.
  
  ======== GENERAL GAME PLAY =======
  Grim Fandango follows the usual adventure game style. The 
 main character moves through different areas which contain several sub-sections. Within each sub-section 
 there are characters to talk to that give clues about what's going on and what to do next. Collectible 
 items are scattered all over and the player must think about where these items could be used or 
 who to give them to, so they can advance the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokolvrolok
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  STORY:
  The game rests on the shoulders of the Story and so it may please you to hear that the story is 
 fantastic! The idea is so new and original! It's such a unique game on the whole. 
  The story contains elements of comedy, adventure, craziness, love and morbidness.
  I never explain 
 the story of games in detail but let me tell you that this has the most unique story of all games 
 i've played, with unique characters in unique locations.
  Story:10/10
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics are shockingly good, and i don' t mean shockingly good keeping in mind it 
 was made 10 years ago; I am saying the graphics are easily comparable to graphics of games released 
 at this time!
  There is a lot of detail put into objects, scenery, character models... everything!
  The graphics 
 surprise me EVERY time!
  9/10
  
  SOUND:
  Flawless!
  Sound effects are always present when required. They are there when you use an object, when you 
 take out/handle an object, you name it!
  Music is excellent. It consists of Bebop, Swind-Era, Jazz and some others.
  There is a total 
 of 32 songs in this game. That more or less gives you an idea of the games length. (LONG)
  The music is just fascinating, take my word for it. Chances are you have never heard anything like 
 it before. 
   Check out Grim Fandango's official site to download the entire soundtrack free of charge! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jbc1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 8, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing games for about 20 years now, and over all this time, I've never been so enamored 
 with a game as I am with Grim Fandango. I remember downloading the demo for this game on my 28.8K 
 connection, hoping against hope that my Pentium 90 Dell computer would run it (barely, by the way) . 
 Even in the beginning, trying to get those damn birds off the roof top with just some pan de muerto 
 and a balloon animal, the game was magical. The characters are real; they breath, cry, and laugh, 
 in such an amazingly human, familiar way. You actually care about them, honestly. That is an incredibly 
 rare quality in a game. The art design, the music, and especially (ah) the plot, are absolutely 
 top notch. This isn't a game; it's a work of art, it's a play, it's literature. And the biggest 
 testament to its greatness is that when it was over, I was profoundly sad. I often wish we could 
 erase selective parts of our memories, to experience the joy or sadness of something for the first 
 time, fresh. Grim Fandango would be first on the list to be erased. Find a computer that will run 
 the game (it should run on XP, but don't quote me on that) , and play it. They don't make them like 
 this anymore! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KidKombo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 2:33 am PT
Review:  What can i say about a game such as Grim Fandango? Evereything about this masterpiece of a game 
 just reeks of class. 
  
  Graphics 9.5/10: Simply Stunning. Whilst the actual graphics themselves are not jaw dropping (though 
 still excellent) , what continues to amaze me is the impressive attention to detail, and the wonderfully 
 original mix of aztec and mexican locations, juxtaposed with art deco-inspired cities dripping 
 with a dark film-noir atmosphere. 
  
  Sound 10/10: Probably the best and most entertaining voice acting ever in a game. The voice actors 
 all really get into their characters and they aren't lazy with their reading, which can really 
 come across in games such as these. their accents all sound authentic and just adds to the wonderful 
 atmosphere of the game. the writing is just a joy to listen to as well, and the sharply humorous 
 dialogue keeps the game entertaining when you aren't solving puzzles or admiring the wonderful 
 graphics.
  
  And the music, oh the music. such a wonderful mix of music that really gels with the atmosphere 
 of the game. youll hear mexican inspired horns, cool noir inspired jazz, and many other tunes that 
 never get dull or monotonous.
  
  Gameplay 9/10: The puzzles themselves (which is what you will trying to solve for the majority 
 of the game) are excellent. of course some are silly, and require a lot of trial and error, which 
 can get slightly frustrating, but the vast majority are not the usual "tear your hair out" puzzles. 
 with logic, common sense and a bit of creative thinking, you can solve nearly all the puzzles in 
 this game. very rarely will you get so stumped you will have to consult the walkthru, and the difficulty 
 level feels almost perfect. The only blemish on this game's outstanding record is the movement 
 controls. i know it was a brave step by lucasarts to move away from the standard point and click 
 gameplay, but it isnt as frustrating and as time consuming as walking manny around every area and 
 seeing where he tilts his head towards. still, a minor quibble, and the rest of the games outstanding 
 features make this almost negligible.
  
  Story 9.5/10: I really dont want to say too much about the wonderful story in Grim Fandango, as 
 it will have such a greater impact if the reader experiences it fresh, without pre-conceptions. 
 in short, our hero Manny Calavera is stuck in the land of the dead, a kind of limbo or purgatory, 
 where he must work in order to earn his way into 'heaven'. his job is a sort of travel agent, selling 
 packages for the newly dead to travel to heaven; the good people get a ticket on the number 9, 
 a luxurious and speedy trip. the bad people get a walking cane. Manny's (after) life is turned upside 
 down the day he meets the lovely Mercedes Colomar, who is as saintly as they come. 
  
  The story is terrific, wonderfully creative and original. It could only have come from a guy like 
 Tim Schafer and his team, responsible for other amazing lucasarts adventures such as Monkey Island 
 and Full Throttle. a darkly humorous noir adventure, it is entertaing from start to finish.
  
  Overall 9.5/10: Probably my favourite adventure game of all time, a near flawless masterpiece 
 that im so proud to have in my collection. Like a fine-wine, this game reputation will only grow 
 finer with age, and will be enjoyed by gamers for years to come. HIGHEST RECOMMENDATION!!! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ali_P30
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 6:36 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing the game, I was already excited about what sort of things would be 
 in-store for me just by watching the intro. The theme and general story-line are unique and playing 
 the witty and somewhat depressive character, Manny Calavera, made me rethink my original opinion 
 that Grim Fandango was just going to be a time-killer after work. You're quickly brought up to 
 speed with your character's background and the fact the whole backdrop of the game is derived from 
 the Mexican beliefs of the after-life makes for a fascinating and immersive world to play in. Not 
 only is the framework of the game great, but the artwork is gorgeous too; if you're like me and 
 you like either a totally dark, miserable game or a bright and colourful canvas, and NOWHERE in 
 between, you'll love Grim Fandango. 
  The puzzles along the way are as enjoyable as they are logical, and the game has mastered the balance 
 of not inventing puzzles that are frustratingly obscure or so ridiculously easy that the player 
 feels they've been patted on the head. 
  All I'm going to say is download the demo and set aside half an hour, and you'll see what I mean. 
 The only downside to Grim Fandango is that it had to end, and I was quite saddened that I'd just 
 played and finished probably THE best adventure game I'll ever find. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HummaKavula
Rating: 10
Date: May 13, 2008 3:10 am PT
Review:  How could anyone not like this game? It's one of the (maybe the) most original, brilliantly well-designed 
 games ever created, and I recommend it to just about everyone. It's everything you could ever ask 
 for and more.
  
  After you die, you go to the Land of the Dead where all souls appear as skeletal calaca figures. 
 The story is divided up in four acts which is four years, all taking place on November 2, Day of 
 the Dead. You play as Manuel "Manny" Calavera, who is a travel agent at the Department of Death 
 in the town of El Marrow. For sins of his mortal life he is forced to pay off his debt as a travel 
 agent, he acts as a Grim Reaper, welcoming newly past souls from the Land of the Living and guiding 
 them to get to the next place. Manny is frustrated at the fact that his boss mistreats him and 
 gives all the good clients to his co-worker Domino. So Manny figures it's time to take one by himself, 
 so he successfully steals one from Domino. Mercedes "Meche" Colomar, completely sinless. More virtuous 
 souls qualify for the Number Nine ticket that cuts the journey from 4 years to 4 minutes, but Manny 
 can't find it... Your boss finds out about this and calls you to your office to yell at you. In 
 the meantime Meche begins her 4 year journey when she should've only waited 4 minutes. Manny's 
 job depends on finding her, but more crooked things are taking place in the Land of the Dead, and 
 it's up to you to find out.
  
  Grim Fandango continues the LucasArts tradition in that you can't die or fail whatever you do. 
 Which is fine because when playing for the first time the puzzles can be pretty hard. But I've 
 played this game at least 10 times, easily. First time through it took me around 15 hours to complete 
 the game, which is plenty. I know all the puzzles by heart and I can complete it in just a few 
 hours if I want to, but that would be spoiling everything else that's so great about the game such 
 as the story, writing, humor and characters. But even though as many times as I've played it through 
 I still manage to find something that I missed. There's a whole lot of stuff to interact with since 
 Manny turns his head towards interactable objects that you can use/pick up/inspect. So there's 
 alot of lines of well written dialog.
  
  Grim Fandango's art direction is amazing. Its beautifully 3D rendered backgrounds and interiors 
 seriously oozes with style and blends perfectly with the characters on screen. The soundtrack is 
 very jazzy and it just flows with the game with perfect pacing. Voice acting is even better, Manny 
 has a fitting spanish accent and he will occasionally speak in spanish, though only short lines. 
 All I can say is: Perfection.
  
  Trivia: Grim Fandango is only mentioned once in the entire game.
  
  This game is a masterpiece. 
 No other adventure game has exceeded it and I seriously doubt anything will. It's probably my most 
 played game I've ever had, and I still play it from time to time. Dare I say it... the best game 
 ever? Yes, I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tal_levi1000
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2009 12:25 pm PT
Review:  the last part of the review is SO TRUE
  i miss meche so much
  MECHE!!!! snif snif
  
  this game is so beautifully made that it makes you fall in love with the characters.
  i was so 
 happy that at the end Manny did what he wanted to do all game long (i don't want to spoil the experience 
 for those who didnt play it yet - SHAME ON YOU!!! this game is a total must) and also so sad that 
 the game was over
  
  Meche is one of the most sexy characters that i have ever encountered (and no im not taking about 
 lara-croft-like sexy, grow up) in my years of gaming.
  
  the only thing that bugged me a little was the interface. it was'nt friendly at all, but i guess 
 it is just because im used to the mouse keyboard combo.
  after a couple of minutes practicing the interface you will get it.
  
  other then that the 
 game is absolutely AWESOME.
  the humor is just so funny. Manny gets into the most hilarious situations =D
  i really recommend 
 this game for those of you who didnt already.
  you have no idea what you are missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffgarrett
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  From the moment I saw the box, I knew I had to play this game. Someone at work had the box on his 
 desk and I found myself constantly looking at it. I found a mint copy for only two dollars. I had 
 no idea what to expect since I had never read a review on any game. This game is head and shoulders 
 above the rest. The graphics are the most notable thing about the game. The characters and locales 
 are drawn extremely well and will draw you instantly into the experience. As if that weren't enough, 
 the game's soundtrack is superb and goes perfectly with the scenes and locales. The voice acting 
 is probably the best seen in any videogame and fleshes out the characters perfectly. Manny's voice 
 is particularly interesting and funny. This game is worth playing over and over just to hear the 
 characters speak. The only gripes I had were about the length, which seemed too short, and the 
 ending, which I think should have been a little more involved. Grim Fandango has received several 
 Game Of The Year awards, and is on a number of "Greatest Games Of All Time" lists, which is saying 
 a lot for adventure games. I played the opening cutscene for a friend once, and he immediately 
 asked me to pick up a copy for him. The cycle continues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnotherKill
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 7:16 pm PT
Review:  The Land of the Dead is actually a fascinating, wondrously surprising and beautiful place so maybe 
 the graphics seem outdated but the gamer is pulled into one of the most compelling, unusual and 
 creative worlds in gaming. Grim Fandango has a terrific story, great humor, colorful graphics, 
 lively music and exceptional voice acting.
  
  The puzzles in Grim are fun, but tough. They are smartly placed in the narrative. Many of the puzzles 
 are made up of multiple steps requiring actions in several different game locations. The puzzles 
 accomplished in Grim Fandango may seem small but later on you realize that they have had an important 
 impact on the plot of story.
  
  ---One of the most frustrating parts of Grim Fandango is that hotspots in this game are signified 
 by Manny's head movements. It works most of the time but it's frustrating when Manny is at a distance 
 or when hotspots are close together.
  
  Grim Fandango is one of the few adventures that left me with a terrible feeling of emptiness once 
 it was completed. I hope that LucasArts comes to their senses and makes a second Grim Fandango 
 or maybe even a movie.
  
  :' ( I want more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivory_soul
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2007 10:34 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Superb voice acting, humor, and script writing, beautiful art style, and pre-rendered 
 graphics
  
  The Bad: Puzzles are difficult to figure out, a few graphical glitches here and there, too short, 
 disappointing ending
  
  I've heard all about this game for years and I finally decided to play it. I'm really glad I did 
 because Grim Fandango has one of the best story lines in all games period. Of course this game 
 was made in the late 90's so there are some flaws but I was surprised at how few there were. The 
 story starts with you: A grim reaper who sells travel packages to the dead entering the ninth underworld. 
 While Manuel Manny Calevera can't seem to sell the premium Ticket to the 9 packages. These tickets 
 let you leave the underworld to a very luxurious place. While most of the dead qualify there's 
 something up with your rival Domino. The adventure has you finding new buddies, chasing a women 
 you love, and defeating the evil baddies. The game has some pretty good pre-rendered scenes especially 
 for 1998. The only issue I had were the puzzles because the are just so damn hard. There is a distinct 
 lack of hints in the game and I always had to result to a FAQ. While the game is a bit short running 
 in at about 6-8 hours it is satisfying but has a disappointing ending. I highly suggest this game 
 if you love stories and if you love adventure games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lavalampbamboo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 11:52 am PT
Review:  Point-and-Click Adventures. Love 'em or hate 'em, there's no denying that some of them are the 
 most revolutionary games ever. And Lucas Arts have made some of the best of them. So, in 1998, 
 when the chapter of adventure games was coming to a close, Lucas Arts got some bloke called Tim 
 Schafer to create, or design, or simply imagine a new 3D point-click adventure. It was called Grim 
 Fandango. It was great.
  
  The creation of Tim Schafer, the genius behind Full Throttle, Day of the Tentacle and Psychonauts, 
 Grim Fandango combines Mexican mythology, a film noir plot and 1930's art deco style to make a 
 smooth well-rounded adventure. The story line is deep, for a start. Other Lucas Arts games, notably 
 the Monkey Island Series, have had more of a comic touch (that's not a bad thing by the way) , but 
 GF has an immersive dramatic plot that keeps you captivated until the last. Yeah, there a parts 
 that'll make you laugh, but when you see the first "sprouting" it's like something out of "The 
 Godfather". 'Cept with more flowers. The music is also fantastic, with South American folk music, 
 jazz, swing, and big band sounds all appearing. It really combines the themes beautifully.
  
  Onto the graphical presentation. This game came out in 1998, but looks like a masterpiece. 
 The faux 3D environments are beautifully drawn and aid the drama immensely. A fantastic example 
 is the city of Rubacava. The main character, Manny, find himself the owner of a casino, after being 
 stranded there a year previous, and you actually believe it. The whole city gives off this air 
 of quiet sleaze, from the club where the beatniks hang, to the docks where the worker bees are 
 striking, to the imposing sight of the blimp hanging over the race track, Rubacava isn't just a 
 city in a game, it feels like a city in itself. 
  
  It's interesting I've got this far without mention the obstacles in this game; the puzzles. As 
 with most LucasArts adventure games, you really have to detach your mind from real life situations. 
 I mean who knew that jamming a forklift truck into a lift shaft could help a situation? Not me. 
 But anyway, the puzzles, yes indeed, are all very inventive, and always keep you on your toes. 
 Whilst some can be slightly tedious (it took me almost a year to get past the tumbler puzzle, A 
 WHOLE YEAR. Not in one go of course, which would be weird...) others require original and inventive 
 thinking. When you use a scythe for example to get a metal detector from a giant cat litter, it's 
 a great puzzle. When you rip a ship in half using a pair of anchors, it's a great puzzle. When 
 you get a form signed by a secretary by changing an automated response from a computer, it's a 
 great puzzle. Hmmm. There's a pattern building here. 
  
  But as with all games, there are negatives. The control method can be a little annoying as there 
 is no clicking on items. Manny will turn his head to look at items of interest, and you press the 
 button to interact with said item. However this can become problematic when you are in an area 
 bountiful in interactivity, and Manny's head starts going like a compass in magnet factory. 
  
  But, in conclusion, it's fantastic. The game plays smoothly and looks fantastic. It sounds 
 brilliant and the puzzles are fun and inventive to try. So, if when you're next in game check the 
 PC games section for one of the bizarre-ist, enjoyable trips through the land of the dead.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AudioSoldier
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  True story: I cried after finishing Grim Fandango. I never cry. But as the curtains closed on Tim 
 Schafers labor of love, I couldnt help myself. I did not wail. I did not howl. I simply allowed 
 a teardrop to fall. It spoke volumes.
  ________
  
  Why exactly did I cry? Im not sure myself. It doesnt finish on an unhappy note. It doesnt make 
 you cry from the sheer pain of the experience. Its simply the most amazing story you can ever 
 wish to experience. It moves you. It absorbs you. Once youve reached the d&eacute; nouement and 
 return to normality, you feel like youve been wrenched from a world so powerful that no other 
 action is apt. A good story  its the most powerful medium. ________
  
  Grim Fandango is THAT good. ________
  
  Numerical additives are tricky things. Grim Fandango 
 is far from perfect; yet awarding it less than a 10 feels wholly unjust. Its irksome keyboard 
 controls and occasionally frustrating conundrums are mere imperfections on its impeccable sheen. 
 It transcends traditional game-reviewing formalities and affects you so profoundly that it has 
 to reap such a mountainous score. Yet, even AWARDING it a score feels wholly forced, fake and unnecessary. 
 It shouldnt need to be backed up by a number to galvanize people into EXPERIENCING it. ________
 
  
  Its an experience, you see, not merely a game. ________
  
  In fact, if you want to know what its like to care about virtual characters so greatly that you 
 cannot bear to tear yourself away, you have to insert Fandango into your DVD ROM. Indigo Prophecy 
 might get close, but its numerous implausibilitys (ancient mythos and that sort of rubbish) ultimately 
 remove you from the experience. Fandango, on the other hand, might be set in a world that is, from 
 the outset, implausible, but it draws you in with its wholly believable story. It traps humane 
 sentiments into its twenty-hour journey, dealing with death and the way we get there.
  ________
  
  The story is comical at times, but youre never laughing at Grim Fandango, merely 
 with it. The humor is derived from the characters; it doesnt poke fun at itself so much as present 
 situations that are funny. In fact, it never tells you when to laugh, as Manny deadpans his lines 
 with vague indifference. This is one game that finds a perfect balance between deadly serious and 
 outright funny. Its an insidious kind of humor. ________
  
  Thankfully, there isnt a branching ending, which makes the experience more impacting. You see 
 the intended d&eacute; nouement. I wouldnt be able to sleep at night knowing there was another 
 route Manny could take. I laud developers for trying different things (again, Indigo Prophecy and 
 its set of different outcomes) , but it simply wouldnt work with Tim Schafers creation. ________
 
  
  It almost feels needless to explain Fandangos gameplay intricies. Theyre merely a means to an 
 end. A way of telling the story. The 3D visuals that were cutting edge in 1998 are still wholly 
 acceptable now. But the game doesnt need to look good. Its tale is so wonderful, so intricately 
 weaved, the characters so realized, that none of this really matters.
  ________
  
  It is accompanied by a fantastic musical score that compliments the Mexican theme; never too brooding 
 yet never overly lighthearted, a balancing act that compliments the games overarching humor perfectly. 
 ________
  
  I seem to be saying perfect a lot, which brings me back to the games scoreline. It isnt a perfect 
 game per se (what is) but is absolutely deserving of a 10. Its the type of game youll never 
 forget it. Its a moving experience. Its a journey youll never wish to end. Having re-played 
 the game years after its original release, I found it just as memorable, just as impacting. I might 
 have known how it was going to pan out, but it in no way lessened the relief I felt when I had 
 finally guided Manny to a safe exit. ________
  
  Dont miss out. Grim Fandango will change your life. Truly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nenn88
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2007 4:24 am PT
Review:  I was 10 years old when I first time ever touched this game! It was great, although I never finished 
 it back then.
  then couple years later, I started it again, and it was superb!
  
  The graphics of the game are great for an older game! The story of the game is just awesome, and 
 makes the game worth of replaying !
  There is no game that matches Grim Fandango. With its fun puzzles, plain great voice acting, game-play, 
 music, and story!
  
  I personally loved the story very much, and thought that Manny ( the main character) was lovable 
 with his demon friend Glottis in their adventure through the Land of the dead, trying to find Mercedes, 
 and the source of corruption!
  
  Gim Fandango is a true classic, and everyone should own it, and play it atleast once to see what 
 me, and probably million other people mean when they say this game is amazing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redmess
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed this game back when I got a copy of it in 1999. The puzzles were really engaging 
 and fun to do, and the difficulty level was just right. The story was great, but I never finished 
 it because of the infamous crane glitch. But when I found a video card that seemed to work last 
 year, I played it through, and even now it is a great story.
  
  The sound effects and music are fantastic, and really draw you in. It is the kind of music you 
 would rip from the CD and play for its own sake. The graphics are obviously old by todays standards, 
 but it doesn't distract from the game, and the characters being Calaca skeletons helps look past 
 that. The game-play is straightforward, with only some minor issues with elevators and some doorways. 
 The value is almost timeless, you will enjoy the story no matter what time you live in. The tilt 
 is very good, you always have the excitement feel of a good movie.
  
  Speaking of movies, it really does play and feel like one. There are plenty of twists and turns, 
 and a lot of surprises to happen. And the scenery is always worth a closer look, adding to replay 
 value.
  
  Overall a fantastic game, well worth playing today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEPowered390
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Grim Fandango is a masterpiece. It's scripting is a masterpiece. It's direction, and art is a masterpiece. 
 It's puzzle's are a masterpiece.
  
  This game is just damn good. It is the best puzzle game that we have ever seen. The soundtrack 
 is my type of music (Very Jazzy) . The graphics have aged extremely well, and it's sometimes hard 
 to believe it came from 1998.
  
  The only thing wrong with this title is the problems with fast machines. You have to download CPU 
 limiters to get past certain points, and sometimes they don't work too well. There are some other 
 minor bugs that are irritating as well, such as running it in Hardware mode. Likely, if you are 
 running a new chipset, you'll have to get into your dxdiag and disable Direct Draw and Direct 3d 
 to play this game properly in software mode, which is a bummer.
  
  I ended up not finishing this game due to these issues. I would be extremely quick to get back 
 into this title once it gets revised for straight-through gameplay. Grim Fandango is in need of 
 a proper, updated patch to fully enjoy. TRY not to read any walkthroughs, as some puzzles seem 
 kinda far-fetched, but very well written once you look back on them. Try to use everything with 
 everything is my best advice.
  
  Grim Fandango is one of the best third person puzzle games on this planet, period. It just needs 
 a revision to be truly enjoyable today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2_the_xtreme
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Grim Fandango is one of the last adventure games to coem out for the PC, but it still manages to 
 be a masterpiece to this day.
  
  The story puts you in the shoes of Manny Calavera, who is a Grim Reaper and a travel agent, who 
 is sent to the Land of the Dead to work off his time and be able to rest. Manny enjoys his job, 
 hoping that his job comes to a finish any minute, but turns out not to be that way. Manny stumbles 
 into a web of corruption within his department and goes on a journey to bring down an evil empire.
 
  
  The script is very well done and has it's own movie nods into it also. It has its betrayls, plot 
 twists and it's cast of interesting characters. The art style of the game is very interesting, 
 which is what separates this from other adventure games.
  
  Puzzle solving is a major part of this game and will make you think instead of doing something 
 simple. Some puzzles require a lot of attention and patience to complete, but there all fun to 
 do.
  
  In the end, Grim Fandango is one of the best games ever made and also my personal favorite so far. 
 So, if you haven't played this yet, go out there and find a copy and play it. I just hope a sequel 
 can be made soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: potterpipi
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 18, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  This is a really good game, grows on you, makes you feel back in the classic times.
  
  Gameplay: Really good, gives a great meaning to the Adventure genre. There's no fighting in this 
 game, but there is alot of interaction. The puzzles of the game are really logic, yet you alot 
 of the time don't know what to do, and once you did it you'll think for yourself it was so obvious. 
 I myself, recommend using the GS guide most of the time, altough it tells you what to do, sometimes 
 it's hard, even with it. The story involves Manny Calavera, a travel agent in the Department of 
 Death, he finds out it's corrupt, and tries to settle it right. You will meet alot of intriguing 
 characters, and you'll have a time you wont forget. Everytime it's puzzles and more puzzles, yet 
 it is really fun. A great thing is that you can save anywhere.
  
  Visuals: The visuals are mexican inspired, as you'll see alot of settings and ideas from Mexico, 
 as well as spanish words and insults. You get to see from Hotels, to mexican traditions, to a Mexican 
 piramid, you also get to go underwater, which is a nice touch. The character visuals are still 
 good for this time, after all, they are skulls :P
  
  Sound: The sound is clear, great voice acting and effects. You'll listen from jazz to mexican music.
 
  
  Controls: The controls are pretty basic, and you can always look for 'em in the menu if you forget, 
 Manny will always be pointing his head toward something he can interact with.
  
  Overral: Grim Fandango is a hard game, if you dont want to get frustrated, read the guide. But 
 it's something you cannot miss out, the story is really good and well made, and all the interaction 
 and characters are something you wont forget. By the time, the graphics are still good. An average 
 gamer, who is not using the guide, the game could take more than 20 hours, to someone who uses 
 the guide, the game could take about 10-20 hours. You can save anywhere, so you can save, and pick 
 up anytime.
  
  Now go play Grim Fandango now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eddmarkus
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 15, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  From the developers of games such as the Monkey Island series and Full Throttle comes a game that 
 puts the Game in Game! It has got it all: The Visuals, The Humour, The Sound, The Gameplay, The 
 Story... If you have somehow evaded this game, do not struggle, it will give you and experience 
 you will never forget!
  
  The Visuals: With full 3D characters and objects on a beautifully painted static world makes this 
 game nothing short of breathtaking at its time.
  
  The Humour: With perfect characters and wonderful humour this game will leave its mark on you like 
 a cat tied to a cruise missile!
  
  The Sound: 100% voice-acted dialogues and well-sounding objects this game isnt just candy for your 
 eyes, but your ears as well.
  
  The Gameplay: With simple yet good control and marvelous animations this game is perfect, nothing 
 is bad, EVERYTHING is great!
  
  The Story: With a lovely and somethings odd storyline you can be sure to have never encountered 
 anything like this ever before. And probably never again.
  
  There is nothing to say about this game than the facts that it is Perfect, Its THE adventure game 
 of all times. And its a definate for anyone who enjoys to play games... Yes, REALLY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmiquila
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I played this game back in 1999. At the time, I was completely blasted by the very well developed 
 game line, the imagination and of course, the music score. Back in 1999, it was way ahead of its 
 time, by so much that still today it is hard to find a game like it. Many have tried, few had succeeded 
 (I would say the closest thing Ive played after Grim Fandango that its close in terms on innovation 
 and music score is Beyond Good &amp; Evil) . It was so advanced that my 1999 computer, which was 
 relatively high end for the time, had problems running some of the graphics and the sound was not 
 that good. It was the ONLY complain I had of the game, so I decided to finish it, shelve it for 
 8 years, a play it later on a better computer to enjoy it at all its glory
  
  Well, I was surprised in 1999, and I was surprised again in 2007 with the quality of the game. 
 Granted, the plot was resolved, I already knew how the game will end, but again I had difficulty 
 solving of the puzzles, which I enjoyed and was thrilled, and the graphics and the music are still 
 very good, even when compared to today standards. Many games look old and the music out of context 
 after a few years of release, but not Grim Fandango. This is a classic, and as such it stands the 
 passage of time
  
  So now with the performance issues I had back in 99 resolved, I must give a solid 10 to this game. 
 Now, if they only develop a sequel. I need one!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splinter_girl88
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 22, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  This game is so fun! You play as Manny Calavera, a travel agent in the Land of the Dead. Manny 
 ends up going on a 4 year long journey through the Land of the Dead with the demon Glottis, to 
 find Meche. It's a long and fun journey. And there's also lots of puzzles in this game, that will 
 make you have to stop and wonder for a little while, more than once. The sounds are great and so 
 are the voice actors as well! The graphics are great, at least when you think about that this game 
 was released in 1998 ;) And I have to say, the replay value is amazing!!! I've finished the game 
 numerous times, and it's still not starting to get boring! This truly is my favorite PC game ever! 
 I know I've said great many times now, but if you play this game, you'll probably understand why 
 there's so many greats here ;) So, well, if you like adventure games, don't miss this game! You 
 won't regret buying Grim Fandango! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 28, 2007 12:22 pm PT
Review:  +A very clever and funny story with a Burton-style twist.
  +Outstanding music and voice acting, along with great graphics for it's time.
  -Moving Manny 
 can sometimes be a hassle.
  -No word of a movie yet.
  
  Grim Fandango was the first game I bought with my first paycheck back in the day. I waited for 
 the game for so long after playing a demo I got from my PC Gamer magazine. As a young kid, this 
 game had everything. Skeletons, smoking, drinking, love, death, murder... basically, the works. 
 On top of that, it's made by my favorite company: LucasArts. They have always been known for their 
 terrific adventure games, and Grim Fandango proved they still had it.
  
  Grim Fandango takes you on a fantastic adventure through the land of the dead as Manny Calavera. 
 He's a reaper. A grim reaper. He collects souls from the living and brings them to the land of 
 the dead, ultimately, to send them on their voyage to the afterlife. Aside from just collecting 
 souls, Manny is also a travel agent. His job is to give the dead a comfortable, yet, deserving 
 travel package to their voyage to the afterlife. Travel packages include a walking stick (being 
 as you're a horrible person) all the way to the Number Nine (the cushy train ride for the good 
 citizens) . All is good until Manny steals a 'sale' from his rival, Domino. Meche is the name of 
 the person he steals, and also finds out something horrible is going on at the travel agency. Good 
 people are getting the shaft.
  
  Aside from the terrific, well written story by Tim Schafer (who also did Day of the Tentacle and 
 Psychonauts) , the gameplay was new for it's time. For one, it was a 3D adventure that wasn't point 
 and click like traditional adventure titles. The gameplay is terrific, but on certain points of 
 the game, it's hard to control Manny. You will be holding up and then turned around when the camera 
 angle changes on you, leaving you going right back where you started.
  
  The graphics were really well done for it's time too. They seamlessly blended motion video with 
 gameplay for an extra unique look. The cutscenes were outstanding as well. Even though a lot of 
 the characters were low polygon, they actually looked well done thanks to the graphics engine and 
 the way the design was put together.
  
  By far, one thing you'll remember most about Grim Fandango is the voice acting and the music. Every 
 voice actor did a terrific job at delivering the lines to the characters. The music is really great. 
 I actually bought the soundtrack for this game, which is rare for me to do since I usually turn 
 game music off.
  
  Adventure games are either really good or really crummy. This one is just one of the really good 
 ones. It's funny, sad, and well written. Almost 10 years ago, I bought this game. I still have 
 it, and I still get to relive the story of Manny's adventure to save Meche (and himself) . Overall, 
 a terrific game that is worthy of a sequel, even a Hollywood director. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimmy813
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  A year or so back, I wrote a paper on what I would like to be remembered for. I picked to create 
 the perfect game. Great gameplay, artistic graphics, film-quality story, compelling characters... 
 you name it. Little did I know, that game had already been made. As an aspiring game designer, 
 this game has changed the way I think about interactive entertainment.
  This game may be almost 10 years old, but everything about it holds up excellently. The backgrounds 
 are all pre-rendered, letting them look as good as many of the games of today, and the characters 
 all animate extremely well. Possibly more impressive than the graphics is the sound, an impressive 
 soundtrack that can rival any movie soundtrack. You'll often find yourself whistling the Casino 
 Calavera tune, and finding the other tunes stuck in your head. This game has been criticized for 
 its controls, but, while you'll occasionally find yourself having trouble, they really are much 
 more fun to use than the traditional point-and-click interface. Plus, many of the puzzles are built 
 around this control method, so it really could not be any different.
  But the very most impressive aspect of Grim Fandango, the aspect that you will remember forever, 
 is the story and characters. The story could very well make a movie, and all has a very noir feel 
 to it. It's extremely original, and very inspired. The writing is clever and funny, while still 
 conveying the story extremely well. And the characters are as well developed as those in any Tim 
 Burton film. Even better, the puzzles all fit in perfectly with the story, not feeling like a roadblock 
 to the story and instead often serving to take part in its telling. I saw many critics criticizing 
 the game for its length. I on the other hand, feel this is a game that, like a great movie, you 
 will play through over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themubashir
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 19, 2007 6:53 am PT
Review:  Adventure games have been around for many years, but very few have actually stood the test of time. One 
 such game is 'Grim Fandango'
  
  STORY - The Story of Grim Fandango is the most bizzare story you'll ever come across. The Story 
 unfolds in four episodes each set a year apart.
  Manny Calavera, a travel agent better known as the Grim Reaper in The Depatment of the Dead has 
 been tasked with picking up the deceased and selling them tickets on the luxurious Number 9 Train 
 that will take them to their final resting place. The Tickets are allotted to those who have led 
 a moral life. However the problem with Manny is that he gets stuck with the duds. His Rival Domino 
 seems to be getting all the good souls. So when Manny Finally finds a deceased nun named Meche with 
 all good deeds in life, Manny is shocked to find out that she isnt liable to a ticket to the Number 
 9. Manny suspects Foul Play. With the Help of Glottis, an oversized mechanic maniac , Manny sets 
 out to makes things right.
  Grim Fandango has undoubtedly one of the greatest story ever told in gaming. Infact the story is 
 so intriguing that you'll possibly remember it when you are deceased.
  Grim Fandango features excellent writing and memorable characters which surely can provide u some 
 unforgetable moment.
  
  GAMEPLAY - Gameplay of Grim fandango is great. Puzzles are logical and blend into the story very 
 well. They are different in style as well as difficulty. Well u dont have any interface explaining 
 the objectives to be done, but in a game where storytelling is done brilliantly you wont need any 
 such interface. Manny will turn his head towards things which he can interact with. This can be one 
 of the few weaknesses in the game as u have to take Manny near every object in the area.
  Overall The Gameplay of Grim Fandango is fun.
  
  GRAPHICS - Graphics of Grim Fandango is an 
 achievement. The game features some great art direction. The visuals of the game are fantastic with 
 each environment presented beautifully giving the game a rich feel to it.
  There are many environments to explore throughtout Manny's 4 year journey. Astounding Detail is 
 given to all areas that Manny will come across.
  The Game is pretty Stylish and looks gorgeous.
  All Characters in the game are a skeleton but 
 still they all differ from each other on many ways. However the characters look a bit jagged.
  But that may be because it was released when graphics werent that great.
  All in all the graphics 
 of Grim Fandango is Brilliant.
  
  SOUND - The audio in Grim Fandango is what really immerses you into believing the game. The voice 
 acting gives an accurate account to what you would imagine each character sounds like, fresh with 
 quality accents. With a variety of selections ranging from classical Mexican to contemporary jazz, 
 the score really sets the mood of each scene, and it serves as a link from the gamer to the unimaginable 
 world of the Land of the Dead. What really gives a kick to the voice acting are the witty and sarcastic 
 dialogues which makes the game one of the funniest ever.
  Even after 1 month of completing this game i still find myself humming to the tune This little 
 light of mine 
  
  PROS - Great Story, Unique, Hilarious, Logical Puzzles, Voice Acting, Music, The list goes on.
 
  
  CONS - Ends come soon, the feeling that the game is over.
  
  Grim Fandango's setting, characters, and design were and continue to be completely unique, not 
 only because they were so unusual, but also because these elements all worked together brilliantly. This 
 game is a masterpiece and maintains its originality even after 9 years of its release.
  Ask Just about anyone who has played Grim Fandango and they will agree that its one of the greatest 
 game ever made.
  In the end i have just one thing to say VIVA LA REVOLUTION 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mesayni
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 28, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I'm a great fan of the adventure game genre, or at least I was when I was younger and was playing 
 games like Myst and The Neverhood and King's Quest and stuff like that on my computer. But I'd 
 never played Grim Fandango, and I knew I had to. I must say, absolutely crazy how good this game 
 is. From the first cutscene, I was impressed and even shocked by the quality of the game's presentation. 
 The writing is great, the art direction is better than most cinematography you see these days, 
 and the story just pulls you through the game you wouldn't believe. They don't really make games 
 like this anymore, at least not in any level of quantity, and it's too bad because all I want to 
 do is play games like this for the rest of my life but it wouldn't be the same because it's not 
 Grim Fandango. After all this hopeless fawning, I'll break this game down into the 5 sections that 
 GameSpot gives.
  
  Gameplay- Fabulous. It's not a point-and-click like so many of the old-school PC adventures, so 
 it feels quite innovative. You have to watch Manny the protagonist's face to know what's important. 
 The real good part about the gameplay is that you're never quite sure how you're going to need 
 to use an item in what context. However, this does not mean that you're going to use any items 
 in completely illogical ways and every puzzle is completely solveable with a little bit of thought, 
 not that this is easy in any way. This is a tough game.
  
  Graphics- Technically, 10 years later, not a great accomplishment. But artistically, this game 
 has aged incredibly. The way the directors of this game framed the different scenes and locales 
 you'll find yourself in is awe-inspiring and beautiful. It's tough to imagine anyone doing it any 
 better. I found myself constantly just saying Wow to myself as I was transported from the Edge 
 of the World to Under the Sea to the bustling corrupted town of Rubicava to the Train Station out 
 of the Land of the Dead. Incredible.
  
  Sound- My favorite soundtrack to a game yet. Nice mix of jazz, mariachi, and just otherwise great 
 music. And while it's not intrusive, if you listen closely there's some awesome music going on. 
 This is coming from a guy who usually mutes games because they're so annoying, so that's a bit 
 of an accomplishment. And the voice acting. Awesome voice acting, almost Hollywood caliber, and 
 like I've said it's witty, dramatic, and smart the whole time. Great script, great music, great 
 voices, sounds good to me.
  
  Value- Once it's over, not a whole lot more to do, but I could see playing it again another year 
 or two from now just to re-experience everything. It's hard to put a price on a game this good, 
 so I can't bash value too bad. Tilt- The game keeps you moving, but once in a while you'll get 
 stuck on a puzzle for a long time, and if you don't wimp out and use a walkthrough like I did a 
 couple times your game will come to a grinding halt. But it's hard to blame the game for that. 
 if you sit a puzzle out and work until you figure it out by yourself, the sense of accomplishment 
 is worth it. And the majority of this game is paced perfectly. You will be wondering what will 
 happen next and playing in a frenzied manner to experience this great game. Obviously highly recommended. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 20, 2007 5:11 am PT
Review:  Grim Fandango is a sublime art-house experience, rich in black humour, post-death conundra and 
 crises. The game deals with Manuel Calavera (Manny to his friends) , travel agent of death, agent 
 provocateur, night club owner, scythe-wielding hero, dashing swindler and, erm, skeleton. Manuel 
 is dead. As, indeed, are all of the other inhabitants of the Netherworld; the place through which 
 freshly-liberated sould travel, on their way to the eternal security of the Underworld. Being dead 
 is less awkward than you might think. In fact, Grim's denizens have created an entire society - 
 complete with gambling dens, politics, strikes, travel, relationships and Good and Evil. It may 
 be a spoof world, but it's entirely credible, enabling you to plunge without hesitation into its 
 twsited plot.
  
  The art deco, phantasmagoric world, depicted by the distinctive new 3D look, is wonderous. It establishes 
 Grim's unique atmsophere and style. One of LucasArts most admirable achievements is the way it 
 has applied the technology to help you. There is a revolution in object handling, as Manny's head 
 turns to peer quizzically at anything that may prove useful to him.
  
  The sheer number of characters and depth of plot constantly astonishes, too. But nowhere is the 
 hard work and skill that staturates Grim more apparent than in the rich dialogue.
  
  It's hard to see what could be improved upon, given that LucasArts is sticking to a conventional 
 point-and-click forumla. Grim Fandango is the slickest, cleverest and most enjoyable adventure 
 game ever seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_doody_1999
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 8, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Ok it isnt quite a 10, their are controll issues anoyed alott of us, For gods sake get in the bloody 
 elevateor manny!!!!!!
  
  other than that if your looking for a chalengeing alternative to FPS in the half life league, hear 
 it is.
  
  beautifull if dated graphics, chalengeing puzzles, amazing charachteriseation and a story that 
 you never loose. the later levels become quite obscure puzzle wise, i found myself trying to use 
 the scythe on everything ant it was never the answer, id be suprised if most of those who have 
 completed it havent looked at a game guide at some point, but the first couple of levels stand 
 out as some of the best gameing your ever going to see.
  
  the world immerses you, a setting as origernal as this has rarely been created. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dentistu
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 7, 2007 3:49 am PT
Review:  Something's rotten in the Land of Dead and you're being played for a sucker.
  Meet Manny Calavera, travel agent at the Department of Death. He sells
  luxury packages to souls 
 on their four-year journey to eternal rest. But
  there's trouble in paradise. Help Manny untangle himself from a conspiracy
  that threatens his 
 very salvation.
  Unul din cele mai bune jocuri din toate timpurile ... umorul este devastator ... Fandango e un 
 dans argentinian ... si green este moarta fizica pe lumea cealalta ... in traducere ar fii un dans 
 al mortii ... mai departe o sa vedeti voi ... great game
  a little romanian 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharier
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  Once you have played it, you will start looking for Adventure games that could give you yet another 
 Grim Fandango experience. This 1998 game stands as one of the best computer games ever made. The 
 context of this game is a perfect fantasy -- the world of limbo, where a group of deads are in charge 
 of receiving and facilitating new deads to heaven or hell -- depending on their living deeds. This 
 world is however caught in a web of corruption. The hero of the game goes to the bottom of the 
 corruption and exposes the villains and saves his love-interest from going to a wrong destination.
 
  Now that I look back, I can easily see why I love this game so much;
  Number 1. It has the most dramatic storyline in any game, along with a very satisfactory climax.
 
  Number 2. The player can easily empathise with lead character Manny -- he is honest, romantic and 
 a revolutionary; he's a dream character
  Number 3. The romantic element is sweet; drives the player to meet the heroine again at the end 
 of the game.
  Number 4. The cut scenes are so well conceived that it makes you feel like you are inside a movie. 
 One of the scenes was death of a friend on a light house. The death of a dead in the limbo is symbolised 
 by transformation of the skeleton into flowers. When manny arrives too late, he gets to see the 
 wind blowing all the flowers away into thin air. Number 5. All the side characters are loveable
 
  Number 6. The puzzles are cool and challenging.
  Number 7. Even in present tech standard, the graphics still look good.
  All in all, this is THE 
 perfect 10 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 25, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Grim Fandango is based upon Mexican folklore, set in the land of the dead. You play Manny 
 Calavera, an employee of the Department of Death and travel agent to newly dead souls who are just 
 setting out on the dangerous four-year journey to the ninth underworld. This is pretty much a little 
 crime game. This game makes use of allusions to classic films such as 'Casablanca', and 'Glengarry 
 Glen Ross', the parodying is tasteful and creates more atmosphere than slaphappy humor. However, 
 comic relief is not led astray. Manny's sidekick Glottis, an oversized monster, tags along on most 
 of Manny's trip giving you just the right amount of relief to the tension surrounding the array 
 of mysterious puzzles. In this game Lucus arts, successfully integrates each puzzle and clue into 
 its storyline. There was not once that I looked up from the game thinking how a certain piece related 
 to the big picture. The controls are a little diffrent in this game. It uses a keyboard-driven 
 interface instead of the traditional point-and-click.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are in 3-D which many games where not at the time. I have to say they are 
 abolutly amazing, even today the graphics stilll like colorful and very detailed. It really gives 
 you that cinematic feel which was amazing at that time and still amazes me today.
  
  Sound (s) : The audio in Grim Fandango really immerses you into believing the game. The voice acting 
 gives an accurate account to what you would imagine each character sounds like, fresh with quality 
 accents. Also ther a big variety of selections of music in the soundtrack, ranging from classical 
 Mexican music to contemporary jazz. The entire soundtrack really sets the mood of each scene, and 
 it serves as a link from the gamer to the unimaginable world of the Land of the Dead. Value: I 
 found the replay value very good. Even though I knew what to do after replaying it later in my 
 life then from my childhood. I have never gotten bord of the amazing story. You can replay this 
 game over and over again and not get tired of the story.
  
  I give this game 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WateredTruth
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 5, 2007 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Grim reaper: I'm ready to take you now Mr. Florez 
  Florez: take me!? Take me where? 
  Grim reaper: Now, now... no need to be nervous! 
  Florez: I'm sorry its just you look a little... intimidating. 
 
  Grim reaper: Intimidating? Me? but I'm your friend and your travel agent 
  
  Kinda a wierd openning cause if i had the grim reaper talking to me; I'd be a little scared. You 
 are Manny Calavera. A travel agent for the department of death and you are in a major slump! All 
 your clients suck and you can't sell any good packages. After you get a lead on a client who is 
 a saint; you manage to screw it up by finding out you can't sell her a good package and she leaves! 
 You lose your job and feel guilty and dicide to go after her. you meet a delightful cast of characters 
 and you go through jobs like a collage intern. Graphic wise... is its big weak point. the games 
 pretty old but the graphics still show alot of the spanish look of the game. The soundtrack is 
 good and the voice actings well done and funny. The game might be alittle hard to find but its 
 a good deal to find it and play to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stu-pendous
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2007 5:21 am PT
Review:  Every once so often, we are treated to a game truly inspired as Grim Fandango. Developed by the 
 pioneers of the graphic adventure genre, LucasArts, Grim Fandango is simply a timeless piece of 
 work. Written and designed by the creative genius that is Tim Schafer, critics and gamers were 
 united in their adulation towards the wacky antics in the Underworld. Personally I have never come 
 across a video game with a premise so wonderful from start to finish. I hated having to complete 
 it.
  
  Loosely based on an Mexican folklore theme, Grim Fandango follows the mishaps of Manny Calavera. 
 On earth, he lived an unsavoury life and thus, continues to do so in death. Working for the Department 
 of Death in the underworld, it is Manny's job to pay off his sins by helping the newly dead achieve 
 travel to the eternal rest. Saints take the train; sinners go by foot. Manny seemingly winds up 
 with the latter clients, hence why he can't get any of them decent travel packages. Dom, his rival, 
 is the opposite: he's a charismatic, high-flying travel agent, great with the ladies and wears 
 nice aftershave. Manny hates his guts, obviously. Down on his luck, Manny decides to poach a client 
 from Dom - the beautiful and saintly Meche Colomar, but Manny still can't get her a ticket aboard 
 the Express. She runs off, Manny discovers corruption in the company and decides to track her down 
 to make ammends. From there, Manny searches all corners of the Underworld, fending off dodgy businessmen, 
 backstabbing broads and even tempermental pigeons all for the sake of making it up to her.
  
  Much like LucasArts' other creation, Guybrush Threepwood of Monkey Island, Manny Calavera is 
 a brilliant protaginist. Of course he's as charming as a rabid hamster to the other characters 
 in the game, but the blend of tragicom and Humphrey Bogart smoothness make him both funny and charismatic. 
 The same can be said for the hyper and hearty Glottis, Manny's demon accomplice who has a pathological 
 love for cars; the sassy Mercedes Colomar channels Bette Davis as the deceptive romantic lead. 
 The situation of Manny following who he believes is a saint rather than a heel clicking diva is 
 endearing.
  
  Grim Fandango features gorgeous graphics with expert direction in art. The visuals are beautifully 
 rendered with detail and dark effects that emphasise death in a cartoony, Tim Burton-esque look. 
 The tones of the locations and characters have been detailed superbly well, giving them a great 
 sense of personality in their appearance. Animation is also flawless, much is the intriguing and 
 strange scenarios seen in the game. Without a doubt, Grim Fandango is a milestone in graphic adventures.
 
  
  The weapon in this game is not just your thinking and logic, but your scythe, which is used for 
 good purposes. A genius weapon is also the sprout gun, which if shot with, turns you instantly 
 into a shroud of flowers. Personally, I think the conversations are the best part of the gameplay, 
 the wit and viewpoints of the plot from these characters is fascinating and amusing, interesting 
 enough to keep you gripped. While the gameplay doesn't break any new grounds, it just about parries 
 any distraction in thinking it sits above the mould of the rest of the games in its catergory. 
 The game paces really well, taking you to some fascinating places along the way.
  
  Grim Fandango also excels in the music. The voice acting is superb as well as the mexican music. 
 The dynamics flow in with the locations, situations and sound affects. In this aspect of the game, 
 it is easily overshadowed compared to the other outstanding aspects of the game but it is completely 
 flawless and in my opinion, probably the best thing of the game. The music content flows from Mexican 
 jazz and folk music which amazingly conveys the atsmophere in the game. The mexican theme is orchestrated 
 and brillantly demonstrated throughout the game. Pat on the back goes to the actors of Manny Calavera, 
 Mercedes Colomar and Manuel who provide the funniest spice to their characters.
  
  Ideas flow beautifully, the story is classy as a Martini and is paced like any great novel. Grim 
 Fandango is no great game - it's a damn wonderful one. That this strange world is filled with memorable 
 characters along the way, you will not forget the hapless but lovable Manny Calavera or his quest 
 to help his beau that easily. When saying goodbye to a game becomes hard is the sign of undoubted 
 genius. A timeless masterpiece is what Grim Fandango truly is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20fox05
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  This game makes a 'before' and an 'after' in the story of games. Everyone should play it, and even 
 you don't like Adventure games, you'll love this one.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is great. The controls are really easy, the camera moves exactly to where 
 you want to and every action you perform is done with a different button (not like in Monkey Island, 
 where you have to chose what to do with what thing selecting from a bunch of options that appear 
 in the screen) , wich makes the game a lot faster an easier. The 'point-and-click' system was replaced 
 by the arrow keys. Many people didn't like this, but it wouldn't be the same with the 'point-and-click' 
 system.
  
  Graphics: It's graphics are awesome considerating it was released in 1998. They are preety smooth 
 and every action is performed naturally, not with 'robotic' moves.
  
  Sound: The sound is one of the most immersive and impressive soundtracks I ever heard in a game. 
 It makes you feel like part of the game and it's sooo good that it'll make you repeat it's rythm 
 everywhere. The tracks are long and absolutely not repetitive. The voices are great and fit perfectly 
 for each character.
  
  It's storyline is amazing, you play the role of Many, a dead guy who works in the Department of 
 Death because he was a bad man during his life and can't go to the 9th Underworld, yet. The DOD 
 is a travelling agency that 'sells' different ways to get to the 9th Underworld, depending on how 
 good your life was. If you were good enough, you can travel on the Number 9, a train that takes 
 you to the 9th Underworld in 4 minutes. Otherwise, if you were a bad person, you have to go on 
 foot, what takes 4 years.
  The employees of the DOD must sell a certain quantity of tickets for the Number 9 to stop working 
 there, but Manny's competitor, Domino, always had the good people.
  One day, Manny can intercept a message and get to where Mercedes Colomar was. He falls in love 
 with her. She was a very good woman (she deserved a ticket to the Number 9) but according to Manny's 
 computer, she only deserved a compass to go on foot.
  Manny gets fired because he gave her the compass instead of a ticket and joins a team wich knew 
 the DOD was corrupted and that supported the revolution.
  That's how Manny starts an adventure to bring Mercedes back and stop the corruption in the world 
 of the death.
  
  It gots great puzzles that will make you think for a very long time until you can solve them.
 
  
  You'll never forgot the characters and you'll miss them once you finish the game, what will make 
 you want to play it again. Glottis, Mercedes, Domino, Manny and Nick are only a few examples of 
 ALL the characters you'll meet during the game.
  
  You must own this game. It's really cheap now at days and, although it was $100, it would worth 
 the money.
  
  Grim Fandango is a story of love, corruption and justice that you'll never forget and wich you'll 
 enjoy every minute while playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omegabustr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  The main thing to note about this game is that it is extremely hard to progress in. The game mainly 
 consists of figuring out what you're supposed to do, how to do it, and what to do it with. This 
 means you're going to be spending a lot of hours observing every object and using all your items 
 on every object... of course logic helps. Yes, this game demands patience. You might find yourself 
 pulling your hair in frustration but you will be rewarded with a little pride with every puzzle 
 you get through. The story is particularly interesting made better with superb voice acting and 
 great characters. The music in the game is also superb as every room has a tune that perfectly 
 fits it. The graphics are kind of bad since this game is old, so you will see a lot of particles 
 and textures flying around. The art direction is quite good though with little comical expressions 
 for every character and etc. Overall, this is a good, although dated, game that should be played 
 through at least once. The game is immersive and you will be picking your favorite characters and 
 etc. This is an experience you won't regret. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xiaodai
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  I must admit that I am not an adventure game expert and this is pretty much the first adv game 
 I have played. My strongest impression of the game is the consistently solid voice acting. Thankfully, 
 the good voice acting is not being wasted on bad dialogue. The writings in the game is sharp, witty 
 and often laugh-out-loud funny.
  
  However, I doubt that the try everything on everything mechanic can work in today's video game 
 market. Not that the game forces you to try everything on just anyone/thing you see. A lot of very 
 subtle hints are left in the game to allow the player to solve the puzzles. But there is a still 
 minority of puzzles that simplify doesn't make sense. Hint: If you have a VIP card, hand it to 
 Glettis. Having said that, the majority of the puzzles in the game actually make sense and it is 
 immensely satisfying if you can solve it without resorting to a guide.
  
  To conclude, I would like to point out that the story in the game is good and the graphics do not 
 look terribly dated despite it's age, in fact is looks quite good. It is a solid game that should 
 be enjoyed by everyone, best played with a guide when stuck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Poshkidney
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 17, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  Another fine adventure game by Lucas arts coming straight from the bizarre mind of Tim Schafer 
 a great game with some good creative puzzles that are well put together.
  A game about skeletons and crime set in a 1930s 7th under world.
  everything looks good from 
 a grahic stand point now that its running on the GRIMEE engine.
  Sound keeps with the setting with well spoken, dialog with the usaul humour that are in Lucas arts 
 adventure games.
  the camera may miss lead you as you try walking through a door and end up runing at the wall.
 
  any thing else this such a superb game that is just fun to take your time with to find or the 
 funny dialog as you try performing actions on very thing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luniac
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  When you first start the game, it seems like a regualr adventure type game.
  Then when the story gets rolling you get overwhelmed by the richness of this game. The enviroment, 
 the acting, the MOOD that this game sets is great. It offers plenty of puzzles ranging from easy 
 to i wouldnt sy hard but very imaginative. An example would be trying to find a metal detector 
 in a huge cat litter box. The learning curve is based on how you can control your keyboard and 
 mouse, so its very simple. When i beat the game i felt like dying..... it was great taht i finally 
 beat it but i just wasnt even nearly ready to be done with it..... if only it the game was 5 years 
 and not 4.......
  I wish lucasarts would make a sequel.... but i guess that wont happen cause games like this come 
 once in a... very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psycho_path
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2006 12:39 am PT
Review:  Making a great adventure game is never easy. There are three things that designers must always 
 tackle with: storylines, graphics, and sounds. Without these core mechanics, no games will ever 
 be a true game and it's replay value will be at it's minimal. In short, it won't last long. But 
 for Grim Fandango, it is a masterpiece.
  
  In Grim Fandango, you play as Manuel Calavera (aka Manny) a so-called Grim Reaper who works for 
 the Department of Death in the Land of The Dead. The DOD is a travel agency who provides tickets 
 to newly dead souls that will take them to the Ninth Underworld where they can finally rest in 
 peace in the afterlife. There are three ways to get there. The first two methods will take them 
 four years to get there whereas the third one only takes them four days. It's the Number Nine, 
 a super-face train that only a certain number of clients are eligible to have them. This is the 
 premium package.
  
  Employees of the DOD must sell a huge amount of premium packages if they too wish to travel to 
 the Number Nine. But unfortunately for Manny, none of his clients are qualify for premium packages. 
 But on one fateful day he meets Mercedes Colomar, a fresh dead soul who isn't qualify for the premium 
 package as well, so Mercedes begins walking to the Ninth Underworld by herself. Feeling some guilt 
 and love, Manny soon trails her to the journey they will never forget. The story of Grim Fandango 
 is one of the most compelling elements in the game and it builds up very strong as you get deeper 
 into the game. Manny will meet lots of interesting and whacky characters and stumbles into lots 
 of creative and exotic locations. I will not spoil anymore plots here so if you want to know how 
 the story goes, play it yourself.
  
  The controls of the game is not too complicated and immediately becomes second nature. The same 
 goes with camera angles, for it is fixed on certain corners and areas just like any Final Fantasy 
 or Resident Evil games so players can see all interfaces very easily. Grim Fandango involves players 
 to interact amongst other characters within the game. There are thousands of dialogues for you 
 to select and it will help find clues and obtain important items for your quest.
  
  Another great element that makes Grim Fandango perfect is the fact that you cannot die in the game. 
 That's right. Lucasarts crafted the game so weirdly that Manny, the main character, will never 
 die under any circumstances. So no matter how many times you try making Manny die, it will NEVER 
 work, so don't worry about finding health items or save points because there isn't any! And you 
 can save your game anytime you wish. However, that doesn't mean you can finish the game with no 
 problems. The puzzles are a shocker and a blast in it's own right. Majority of the puzzles in the 
 game are a tension or just plain nuts because there aren't any clues for you to solve it. Typical 
 adventure games would give you hints and tips from examining an item or from a specific source 
 that guides you to solve something but guess what, Grim Fandango doesn't have any! Clues are either 
 hidden deep beneath a character's dialogue as a sub-sub-dialogues or the items you are currently 
 carrying, so eventually you find yourself lost in the middle of the game just figuring what on 
 earth you're suppose to do.
  
  If you don't believe anything what I just said about Grim Fandango, then see it for yourself. It's 
 a masterpiece, a classic and a must-have for all gamers alike whether you're just a rookie or a 
 veteran. Everything about Grim Fandango is beautiful and you have to play it yourself to experience 
 such a wonderful game. I love it so much as I personally hold it close to my heart. I play this 
 game at least once a year and I never get tired of it. It's just so fun and gorgeous.
  
  If you happen to stumble upon Grim Fandango in any store shelves in the world, grab it and buy 
 it! It's a chance of a lifetime and you won't regret it! It's really that good! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikylin
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Not only is this a good game, it inspired my first official review (unless there has been other 
 ones from about a year ago..... weak) on game spot....
  
  If you can get your hands on this game, it is totally worth it!! The storyline is great, for a 
 start, it has a high originality, you get along very well with the main character, who has a average 
 humorous interpretation about things, himself, getting used to his surroundings....
  
  The game play is well thought of, and the difficulty is pretty good also. The only issue about 
 this game would be that it seems to have issues with Win SP2, but I cannot confirm this for it 
 has not happened to me. Besides there are all sort of solutions to this kind of issues.
  
  Anyway, to finish the review, this is one gigantic classic in its genre. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GenjuroKibagami
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 1, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  Manny Calvera is stuck in a 9 to 5 job selling travel packages. The receptionist doesnt respect 
 him, hes constantly outdone by his rival co-worker Domino, and his boss spends most of the day 
 insulting the employees. Mannys job sucks, and chances are you know someone in a similar situation 
 even if that amounts to little more than Jim and Pam from The Office.
  
  Oh, one small difference: Manny is dead.
  
  After transporting gamers to a post-apocalyptic 
 biker world in Full Throttle, Tim Schafer has once again crafted a unique gaming world full of 
 screwball comedy, witty dialogue, and a memorable cast of characters. Grim Fandango uses Aztec 
 mythology to create a Latin flavored underworld inhabited by skeletons resembling the calaca figures 
 normally used in celebration of el D&iacute; a de los Muertos. As punishment for his wrongdoings 
 in life, Manny is forced into a lowly salesmen position in the Department of Death, a company devoted 
 to handing out travel packages to the recently diseased based on how moral their lives were.
  
  Unfortunately Manny is constantly stuck with scummy men and vagabonds as clients often resulting 
 in pathetic sales like walking sticks or a chartered trip in a packing foamed-filled coffin. A 
 few kitschy puzzles later and our protagonist finds himself with a juicy sale in reach when a beautiful 
 dame named Meche, who lived her life like a saint, walks into his life. But trouble ensues when 
 Manny is unable to find her ticket on the legendary No. 9, a train giving direct and comfortable 
 passage to Mictlan. Manny is promptly fired when the noble Meche leaves empty handed, but then 
 hes whisked onto a four year adventure to solve a sudden mystery of the disappearance of clients 
 tickets and to ultimately save Meche for reasons poorly explained.
  
  Admittedly Grim Fandangos plot starts out rocky. Youre force fed too much background information 
 about Mannys world in a short time span, and twists occur unrealistically quickly to propel the 
 story forward. Fortunately the narrative soon after slows down and allows Schafers talent for 
 storytelling to shine. There are tons of goofy, humorous characters and events such as . . .
  
  -Manny must acquire a balloon to fill with goo. He finds a rather morose clown twisting and 
 contorting the much needed item into cute, little animals. Since the undead entertainer claims 
 he can make any animal out of a balloon, Manny asks for a dead worm.
  
  -Glottis, Mannys side kick and a literal speed demon, is fired for turning the Department of Deaths 
 rather ordinary taxi cabs into a sweet hotrod. After telling Manny of his termination, Glottis 
 bursts into tears, rips his heart out, tosses it into the woods, and dies. You then have to go 
 find the heart to revive your buddy . . . because Manny doesnt know how to drive and he needs 
 someone who can.
  
  -The mobsters that run the city of El Marrow from behind the scenes whack skeletons with sproutella 
 rather than bullets. Sproutella causes a second death where the victim is encased in . . . flowers.
 
  
  -Youll be attacked by fiery beavers, which you douse with your trusty fire extinguisher.
  
 
  -Manny and Glottis encounter a funny little man named Chepito at the bottom of the ocean. Since 
 Chepitos lantern is the only thing allowing the three to see even inches in front of them, Manny 
 and Glottis follow Chepito, who then takes them in a complete circle around the screen.
  
  -The dynamic duo open up a hip night club akin to Ricks Place from the legendary film Casablanca. 
 Manny is even clad in a sharp white suit like Humphrey Bogart while Glottis does an embarrassing 
 job filling in Sams seat at the piano. Dont play it again, Glottis!
  
  -You can recite ridiculously stupid poetry in front of bit nick skeletons or do your best Seinfeld 
 impression and ask So whats up with airplane food anyway?
  
  -To get your bony fingers around heavy duty tools to patch up a ship, youll have to put the Sea 
 Bees, literal chain-smoking construction working bees that are not to be confused with the Navy's 
 Seabees, on strike by giving them Socialist propaganda pamphlets.
  
  Excellent writing, however, cant solely carry a graphic adventure. Grim Fandango sports the standard 
 core gameplay to the genre involving inventory based puzzles and talking with NPCs through multiple 
 dialogue options. Many of the games puzzles are reasonably challenging and offer small clues. 
 For example, at one point youll scare off birds by covering a balloon animal in bread crumbs so 
 that when the birds feast on their chow, theyll pop the balloon and high-tail out of there. Or 
 early on, youll need to mess with your boss answering machine to trick his secretary into thinking 
 he ordered her to sign a work order.
  
  Unfortunately Grim Fandango also suffers from a noticeable amount of ridiculously difficult puzzles 
 that only the most patient, insane adventure nuts will solve on their own. Theres one instance 
 where youll need to progress by grabbing a sign post and then placing it on a small, barely visible 
 discoloration on the ground of another screen. The game gives no hint that you should do anything 
 remotely like this. Later on you need day of the week a photo was taken on. To learn this information, 
 youll need to hear a randomly generated PA announcement about Kitty Hat Day and then notice that 
 the kids are wearing kitty hats in the picture. The game even has frustrating puzzles that involve 
 flipping random switches to escape a sinking ship and fiddling with tumblers to unlock a safe.
 
  
  Normally a few tough puzzles wouldnt be enough to get me crying for a FAQ so quickly, but Grim 
 Fandangos new 3D interface actually makes this challenging graphic adventure even harder. Rather 
 than using the traditional point and click style, Grim Fandango has the gamer move Manny in real 
 time via a keyboard or gamepad. First, dont bother with a keyboard unless youre itching for painful 
 hand cramps. Second, this is a definite case of if its aint broke, dont fix it. Where as older 
 graphic adventures would indicate if objects can be interacted with by simply placing your cursor 
 over them, Manny only slightly moves his head toward an object, which is sometimes too subtle to 
 notice. I distinctly remember one incident where I knew I had to drop an item on two snooty actors, 
 but I couldnt figure out how to get above them. I broke down and checked a FAQ to find out a ladder 
 tucked away in the corner could be climbed. Other times puzzles require you to move in very specific 
 locations. In one case youll need to stick a scythe over an Olympic swimming pool sized litter 
 box in order to find a metal detector. I figured that part out, but it took me quite some time 
 to discover the exact location to step on before Manny would carry out the animation of sifting 
 through the litter.
  
  Easily the most common problem is youll constantly move through areas without realizing there 
 are other exits to new screens. The game uses beautiful pre-rendered backgrounds ala Final Fantasy 
 VII but without the helpful ability toggle on and off arrows pointing to exits. Past point and 
 click adventures didnt have this problem because theyd simply change your cursor into an arrow 
 or exit sign to indicate that theres another destination for you. There were times where I got 
 stuck just because I couldnt find an area where a story scene would occur. Admittedly there is 
 some good to the new control scheme. Moving your character like in a 3D action game is far more 
 intuitive than pointing to where youd like to stand. In addition, hitting a button to interact 
 or examine objects and people is a lot faster than having to choose specific commands from a list. 
 However, this doesnt even come close to outweighing the negatives.
  
  The short comings are at times easy to overlook thanks to Grim Fandangos excellent visuals and 
 audio. The combination of awe-inspiring backgrounds, with locales ranging from a bustling fiesta 
 to a drab city inspired by film noir, and detailed, cartoon-like polygonal characters creates a 
 demented, Tim Burton caliber storybook atmosphere. As gorgeous as the game is, Schafer was able 
 to pull us further into his world thanks to the games Latin and jazz soundtrack and large cast 
 of voice actors, whose accents further add to Grim Fandangos Spanish influences.
  
  The end result is not the quintessential graphic adventure, but merely an extraordinarily well 
 presented one. Grim Fandango is further proof that Tim Schafer is a funny, creative man with a 
 knack for story telling, but frankly the game is flawed. Where as Full Throttle was too easy, Grim 
 Fandango is usually too hard thanks to both the occasionally ridiculous puzzle and the problematic 
 control scheme. If youre a graphic adventure fanatic that wants to waste hours on the same puzzle 
 by trying absolutely every possible solution and exploring every nook and cranny of a screen, youll 
 enjoy this one more than me. But most gamers have better options in the genre such as Sam &amp; 
 Max Hit the Road, Gabriel Knight: Sins of the Fathers, the Monkey Island series or The Longest 
 Journey. Some of these graphic adventures may not sport a story as well written or clever as Grim 
 Fandangos, but their superior control schemes and lack of truly crazy puzzles rank them ahead 
 of this supposed king. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KLN2002
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  Grim Fandango by Lucas Arts is perhaps the best adventure game ever made. It was an instant classic 
 when it was released in 1998. The game contains creative and interesting scenery to explore. And 
 a cast of memorable characters with great voice acting. If you are familiar with Sam &amp; Max 
 Full throttle, Day of the Tactical, Monkey Island (all by Lucas Arts) this game takes the best 
 aspects of those games the story lines, voice acting, and improves them ten fold in Grim Fandango. 
 At today's market price you can find Grim Fandango for around $10.00 so it shouldn't hurt to try 
 it. If you have played any of the above mentioned adventure games, and enjoyed them. Than you can't 
 go without Grim Fandango. 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yo_foo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 19, 2006 11:32 pm PT
Review:  It's hard not to enjoy this beautiful game - Tim Schafer continues his brilliance - however it 
 occurs to me that a lot of people will not respect this adventure game anymore due to other options 
 available. However, it has already assured its brilliance time and time again. It's fun, its great 
 and it is memorable.
  
  Instead of being a point and click adventure, you control the protagonist with the keypad or a 
 joystick! The main character will also turn his head to things he can interact with and you can 
 press enter to interact with the items. The story is set into four episodes, successive years on 
 the Day of the Dead.
  
  The game's voice acting is sensational. Absolutely memorable.
  
  The game may not be widely available anymore, but it still remains one of the finest games 
 of all time and an absolute pleasure to play. It is quite dated by todays standards - the character 
 models look very much like the skeletal calaca figures famous in Mexico - however quite original 
 and fun, not terribly graphic. But don't let that ruin your gaming. Graphics doesn't equal gameplay 
 and in Grim Fandango there's plenty of gameplay to satisfy the adventure gamer.
  
  :' ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hhbc1
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 30, 2006 5:18 am PT
Review:  I first plyed this game as a demo, and I loved it. I then spent two years trying to find the full 
 version of the game, And two days before Christmas Eve I was in the electronics store Comets, and 
 I finally found it, priced at 14.99, as I was young at the time, my farther said 'Maybe Santa 
 will get it for you', so sure enough Chritmas Day came and there it was. I started to play it on 
 Boxing Day, and I have loved it ever since!
  
  For Lucas art fans or not, this is a perfict and fun family game (Which dosen't involve running 
 around shooting people and Car-Jacking :P) Most of the puzzles are damn hard, and it will take 
 you maybe a year or two (Without a walkthrough) to complete it, but when you fianlly complete the 
 game without a walkthrough, you feel more satisfied than a night in bed with a J-Lo look-a-like 
 (Im sure you two would only be playing scrabble! :P)
  
  So let's look at the pro's: It portrays a unique tale of Manny Calavera, who's mission is to try 
 and complte his four year struggle for eternal rest! The graphics are brilliant when you look at 
 the date it was made; the charactors are just lovable such as Glottis, Meche and Salvatore; and 
 the time it will take you to complete the game is well worth paying 15 for.
  
  And the con's: The puzzles can be extremly difficult; There is long pauses between the story progression 
 due to the time it will take to pass each puzzle; the camera angle can be a bit annoying; can take 
 up alot of memory on your PC if you are useing a older model
  
  I have also seen people asking if the game will work for Windows XP the answer is yes, it will 
 work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: morozco86
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2006 6:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is just perfect, why, because the game takes you to the most strange world (the dead's 
 world) with all the mexican culture in it, you can't just no love it, it is perfect in all its 
 aspects, first lear to play it is very easy, secondly the graphics are great, they developed the 
 perfection of graphics wit this game many years ago, and finally the story is great.
  Lucas Arts is the best doing this kind of games, we can see masterpieces as Monkey Island (I, II, 
 III, IV, V) and Full Throtle. The adventures of Gubrush Treepwoop are great, and so are they the 
 Many Calavera's ones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cycke_
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Not many games can you play eight years after their release, and still be immersed by it. Grim 
 Fandango is one of those games. I discovered, played, and finished Grim Fandango all in the year 
 2006, and it absolutely has held up all of these years. 
  You play as Manny Calavera, a sort of travel agent who works for the Department of Death in the 
 Land of the Dead. He sells travel packages to those who have recently exited from the living world, 
 and starts them off on their long journey to the Ninth Underworld. He works here to gain his own 
 passage to the Ninth Underworld, and needs to sell tickets to the number nine train to certain 
 holy individuals who qualify. However, he has not had any luck. Finally a lady named Mercedes Colamar 
 enters his office, she has not committed any wrongdoing in her past life, but for reasons unknown, 
 Manny cannot offer her a ticket on the number Nine. Reluctantly, he sends her off on foot and she 
 begins her long journey. Manny later discovers the villainous circumstances behind this odd occurrence, 
 and now is left with only one option, to find Ms. Colamar. 
  But he is not alone, he is accompanied by the demon-mechanic known as Glottis, a large, clumsy, 
 and often hilarious character. His expertise in motorized transportation comes in handy throughout 
 the story as you travel through many exotic locals such as the Port Rubacava, the edge of the world, 
 and the entrance to the Ninth Underworld itself. Along the journey you will encounter many memorable 
 characters and bizarre circumstances. 
  As far as game play goes, Grim Fandango is just like any other 3D adventure game where the mouse 
 is not used. There is no HUD of any kind, all adding the the richness of the atmosphere the game 
 creates. The game confronts you with puzzles that range from easy to difficult, but all puzzles 
 can be solved just by being observant and exploring everything, as Manny's head always locks in 
 on something significant. You can add various objects you come across to your inventory, and each 
 item is assigned to a number on your keyboard, with 1 always wielding your trusty scythe, which 
 proves very useful.
  You traverse through beautiful pre-rendered backgrounds that are immensely detailed. The overall 
 art direction of Grim Fandango is second to none in the world of video games, and so is the sound 
 design. Featuring a brilliant musical score by Peter McConnell, Grim Fandango is one of the few 
 games that warrant an Official Soundtrack purchase. Many different types of jazz, and Mariachi 
 music, are spread out through the game, and add to the whole vibe you get from playing Grim Fandango. 
 
  The game goes by quickly, even though it should take you more than 12 hours to complete, and you 
 will find yourself longing for more when you complete it. Grim Fandango is not only on of the greatest 
 games ever made, but it is also one of the greatest forms of escapism entertainment ever made.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eystanda
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2006 6:30 am PT
Review:  Grim Fandango, in it's premise, is an odd idea for a game. But since when has the 'odd' stopped 
 LucasArts from putting out great games?
  
  The adventure is set in the Land of the Dead, and you play Manny Calavera, an employee of the DOD 
 (Department of Death) , where he works as a travel agent for the souls of the recently departed.
 
  
  Why is Manny working for the DOD? Manny must work off a debt from his previous life before he can 
 travel to his final resting place. How? By getting a certain number of 'premium' souls, good people 
 in their past lives, tickets on the 'Number Nine', the best way to travel onto the great beyond.
 
  
  It would all be so simple if Manny could actually get some decent clients. And when he finally 
 meets the angelic Mercedes Colomar, a woman who has never even committed 'A teensy bit of killing', 
 he is unable to get her a ticket on the Number Nine, and is forced to let her set off with just 
 a wooden walking stick with a compass in the handle.
  
  But Manny can't understand why he couldn't he get the saintly Mercedes a ticket on the Number Nine. 
 It seems nothing is right in the Land of the Dead, and Manny must search for Mercedes, and discover 
 who's corrupting the afterlife.
  
  Grim Fandango is a spectacular game. It's one of those rare gems that only come along once in a 
 while. Fantastic voice talent, amazing writing and memorable characters mean that this is definitely 
 one of the best games ever made.
  
  So what are you reading this for? Go out and buy this game, and treat yourself to one of the most 
 unbelievable gaming experiences ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikeybabe_125
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 11, 2006 12:53 am PT
Review:  The point-and-click adventure, a genre virtually forgotten in this age of modern games. However, 
 back in the day, these titles were showing up everywhere. 
  
  You might think that because these games are older they are somehow inferior in story or depth. 
 Actually, the opposite it true. So much so I will say that MANY modern games base their foundation 
 on games like this.
  
  You owe it to yourself to play this and every game by Tim Schafer, who practially put a name to 
 the point and click genre. Once you first start the game, hear the witty dialogue, delve into the 
 suprisingly deep story, and be impressed by the interesting use of graphics, you will be hooked. 
 
  
  See where PC gaming got its roots, and where it needs to go back to in this age of "modern" games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reilly86
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 11, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  Grim Fandango is quite simply one of the best Pc Adventure games made. Based on the famous idea 
 of Point and Click games such as Indiana Jones and the Fate of Atlantis, Grim Fandango takes advantage 
 of this but uses them in a 3D world
  
  Game play- The game is easy to play, and can be saved at any point which is great if you only have 
 a few minutes to play. The game is set in the land of the Dead where the people who have died come 
 as a sort of stop off before making it the next world. Which is where the main character comes 
 in. his job is to sell tickets on the number 9 Train or a whole range of different ways. Sadly 
 he only ever seems to get the scummy people like gangsters, which means he can only sell them 
 walking sticks. After a while the truth is reavled about his place of work and so starts the adventure. 
 The world in which you play has a sort of Mexican theme to it, and some locations that are visited 
 are, Hunted Forest which flying Spiders, Rubacarva a small town on the coast and even under the 
 sea which ends up at a vast snowy landscape.
  
  Sound  The sound is fantastic, all of the sound effects used suit the objects well the voice acting 
 is perfect and clear which is supported by a brilliant range of different music which has a Jazz 
 theme to it.
  
  Graphicsthe Graphics today dont look that good compare to games like oblivion but still stand 
 out well. The backgrounds are all really detailed and look 3D even though they arent. the only 
 graphical problem is the characters which do look very square and old fashioned, but when you think 
 the game was made in 1998 they are still very good. 
  
  Over all its a fantastic game which does deserve an up to date release for any one who missed 
 it first time round. It shows us what Lucas Arts can make when they stop making hundreds of mediocre 
 Star Wars games every year. And of course it proves that games dont need any violence or bad language 
 to be noticed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dogsuferer
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  In this game your guy is so cool that hell itself spit him back up. Just kidding. Anways about 
 the game its about Grim the coolest dude in the underworld. If you like strategy games or games 
 that are freakin sweet then this game is for you. Some of the puzzles make you feel so good about 
 yourself when you figure it out its just awsome that the developers would be so nice to the gamers. 
 Sometimes you gotta find stuff and put it in certain places which is way fun. Grim looks really 
 cool so thats so dope. If you want action you got it. Dont get shot with the gun that makes plants 
 grow out of you that can even kill the dead. Kinda crazy but what did you excepct from the creaters 
 that brought you every good game. This game is basically like the coolest game ever so you might 
 as well go and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EncephalonOne
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 8, 2006 7:21 pm PT
Review:  The phrase "instant classic" has become quite disposable as of late. People often use it to describe 
 Top 40 albums as if they were actually going to stick around for years to come. I can't help but 
 feel a sense of disappointment that when I use this phrase to describe a truly classic concept 
 it's somewhat cheapened by its overusage.
  
  Such is the case with Grim Fandango.
  
  For those who were never fortunate enough to have caught this game when it came out in 1998: This 
 is the story of Manuel (Manny) Calavera, a travel agent who shuffles people from this mortal coil. 
 Manny's life is sort of at a stagnant point right now; his travel clients don't fetch him much 
 commission and he can't really seem to catch a break at any point. He is, in fact, dead in the 
 water. Then one day a woman name Mercedes (Meche) pays him a visit at his office and you're off 
 on your quest.
  
  You play as Manny and take him through his quest to uncover the seedy goings-on of the Land of 
 the Dead, a place which is anything but. The charmingly original story, the jazzy bebop and big 
 band soundtrack, the Mexican folklore and art deco setting make what is quite possibly one of the 
 most entertaining games ever conceived on the PC.
  
  Even 8 years after its original release the graphics and soundtrack haven't aged a bit. Sure it's 
 not the best looking game on the planet, but its usage of graphics doesn't need to be. The film-noir 
 feel of the story ensures that less is more comes across as all heart and little flash.
  
  I have had this game since it was available back in 1998 and didn't get to play it much. Recently, 
 with my brief return to jazz music I dug up the timelessly catchy soundtrack and dragged it into 
 my iPod and I was instantly left with an unquenchable desire to play this game again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lokar
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  You are Manny, a travel agent in the land of the departed. All is fine, selling tour packages to 
 new arrivals in the aftterworld, until one day a new client shows up and it becomes apparent not 
 everything is as honest and decent as once seemed. 
  
  You set off on a trek that takes you through a gorgeously illustrated world, filled with characters 
 from Mexican folklore. The puzzles are beguiling and enough to keep you challenged for many days 
 of play. It's an extremely elaborate setting, and I for one had to repeat many of the set-pieces 
 numerous times, but don't despair, it's certainly worth the effort.
  
  How many games even try to be like this? How many games so much as approach folklore and culture, 
 let alone combine them with a dash of sci-fi? (This would make a great animated movie, by the way. 
 Hint hint.)
  
  Charming, sweet, innovative and very involving, Grim Fandango is one of the best PC games ever 
 made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpiritingAway
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2006 9:18 pm PT
Review:  What can one say about this game, but absolute perfection. The dialogue alone gives this game a 
 10, but mix that with intriguing gameplay and you have one of the best PC games of all time. alot 
 of hours are devoted to this game but with the games 1940's film noir look with Spanish culture 
 thrown right in you hardly notice that you can easily spend an entire day on it.
  
  dialogue- Too many great lines to list but believe me there will be some you will never forget, 
 "Don't eat the gazpacho" or "Yes! I've been waiting for this moment all my life!!"
  
  Characters- Very unique and more developed than characters of most modern movies.
  
  Gameplay- 
 Controls are tricky at first and you swear if you have to hear the words "my scythe I like to keep 
 it next to where my heart used to be" you'll rip all the hairs on your head out .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sheik026
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 22, 2006 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Back in 1998, before LucasArts created dozens of Star Wars games per year, they were really into 
 making original properties. There were many fruits of this phase, including Night of the Tentacle, 
 the Monkey Island series, and Full Throttle. But the gem of these is hands down Grim Fandango.
 
  
  Grim Fandango is the tale of Manny Calavera, a travel agent for the afterlife, on his four year 
 journey of the soul. Along the way, he'll meet an undeniably comical cast of characters that range 
 from his corrupted, ill-tempered boss to a band of rebels out to change the world. The story is 
 epic, taking at least 30 hours to complete; is subtly philosophical for people looking for it, 
 and occurs in a world so deep, you'd swear this game could not have been made a decade ago.
  
  As far as gameplay is concerned, this game is all about exploring your environment, solving 
 puzzles, and talking to other wandering souls for clues to said puzzles. The puzzles can sometimes 
 seem obscure to a point of frustration, but when you figure them out, you always have that moment 
 where you feel smarter than when you started playing. The exploring part, however, can be sometimes 
 aggrevating due to the 90's vintage tank-like control system; I guess I might just be too used 
 to new fangled 360 degree movement ranges. Altogether though, it's pretty enjoyable from a gameplay 
 perspective if you are patient enough to deal with the controls.
  
  The graphics were state of the art for their time and hold up today in an "artistic" sense. The 
 character models may be blocky, but they fit the characters they represent. The level design is 
 detailed to a perfect level between lazy and over done. The animations are smooth and the cut scenes 
 are more than a welcome break to watch.
  
  The epic story is only topped by the game's sound system. For a game that came out a decade ago, 
 this is definitely a lot better than what I hear in a lot of modern games. The music is hypnotic 
 and changes style with every year to fit the new setting. One year it will be smooth, rythmic blues 
 and another year it will be Mexican fiesta music, but it is always top noche. The acting from all 
 the characters is superb, giving off just the right amount of drama and comedy that is needed, 
 and the script just makes these voices that much better.
  
  Overall, Grim Fandango is one of the best adventure games of our time and is definitely worth your 
 time if you have the opportunity to pick it up.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamedna
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 13, 2006 2:51 am PT
Review:  grim fandango is a game which came out in 1998. the game had solid graphics which still looks good 
 today. the puzzles were sometimes challenging but if puzzles is your thing you could figure it 
 out.
  
  the story was good and it grabbed the player and even if you got stuck it inspired you to figure 
 it out so you can go further in the game, just to find out what happens next in the story.
  
  it had good humor and a dark theme set in the land of the dead, which is a plus.
  
  this 
 just was and is one of the best adventure games with the main character evolving in the story, 
 in search of his purpose and the women he has fallen in love with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeAsakura
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 10, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Let me just tell you, that the only reason i've play 100 or more hours is because i've simply played 
 the game over and over. I love it.
  
  I don't own many adventure games (compared to the other genres I own. Just take a look in my games 
 collection on my profile.) , but this one always caught my eye in the store. It took me a couple 
 of years after release to actually buy it, and it is possibly one of the best purchases i've made.
 
  
  The graphics and the art in the game is truely amazing, considering it was created in 1998, I think 
 it was amazing for that time, especially for the genre. It's like no style i've ever seen in a 
 video game. Even though the year is now 2006, I still give the graphics a high 10, as it suits 
 this game perfectly. The amount of places you visit in this game is great. Not only do they play 
 brilliantly, they look brilliant.
  
  Now onto sound, and only two words shout out in my mind. Voice acting. It's truly amazing. If you 
 just forget that they're all skeletons and demons for one second, and you can almost imagine you're 
 there, talking to real people. The dialogue is intelligent, humorous, I mean, there are many lines 
 I still remember from it! But saying that, I only played it all the way through a week ago. The 
 sound of objects/interactions in the game, including from the backgrounds, are great too. They 
 fit perfect with whatever it is you're using, or seeing. Finally, in the sound area, the music 
 is the best i've ever heard in an adventure, maybe going further than that. Very jazzy, lots of 
 saxophones.
  
  Gameplay. The most crucial thing in a game. To be honest, I can't think of a good word that I haven't 
 used already to describe it's superiority. Oh, there's one! I've never played a better adventure 
 game, I fully enjoyed every second of Grim Fandango. I mean, as soon as I hear something that could 
 even be slightly related to it, I go jumping for a chance to play it again. There are many challenges 
 in this game, easy and hard. This makes it just right, and after accomplishing one of the harder 
 tasks, you'll feel riveted and you'll want to keep on playing. The interface is easy to use, and 
 you'll get used to it within a matter of minutes.
  
  Now, this isn't included in the main reviewing criteria, but Story. This is what gives the game 
 it's originality, and godliness. The many locations, characters, and plot lines give this a real 
 kick! The majority of the characters are linked in some way, and you can always work this out one 
 way or another. The voice acting boosts this, just listening to their voices when you talk about 
 other people can give you the right idea of their opinion. There isn't a point in this game, at 
 least I don't think, where the story ahead is predictable. I know I was surprised by some things 
 that happened in the game at my first run through, or maybe that was just amazement?
  
  Well, there's only so much I can explain. I want to go and play it right now. Anyway, only you 
 can discover the magic of this game. In fact, why are you looking at reviews? You should already 
 have this game and be playing it, or have recently. Or even, you should be ordering this game, 
 or getting out your money to be getting ready to go to the nearest store and buy it.
  
  You won't regret it. Manwell Calavera won't disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgon_9
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 8, 2006 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Grim Fandango is an adventure game for the PC that I actually played from beginning to end. The 
 main reason I was able to do that was the great story, hilarious characters and interesting locations 
 in Grim Fantango. In this game you play as Manny Calavera who is a Grim Reaper. While working at 
 his job, collecting the souls of the recently dead, Manny comes across a conspiracy at his work 
 place. From here Manny's story begins. Manny's quest to save a women he met at work will lead him 
 all over the Land of the Dea. The different locations in this game are truly out of this world. 
 From the Dead City to a haunted forest and even under the sea, the locations were designed with 
 great detail. The characters in Grim Fandango were also very memorable. With some pretty funny 
 lines and great jokes. 
  
  Playing the game is fairly simple, you walk around and can press an action button to interact with 
 items where possible. You can also use different items you find to solve puzzles and continue the 
 story. The cut scenes in this game are one thing that stand out. The game itself is split into 
 4 years and after each year a great cut scene is played to explain what's happening. Of course, 
 the best cut scene is at the end. Don't worry I won't spoil the story, but it's a great game and 
 any adventure game fan should play it right away. Especially since there's hardly any adventure 
 games coming out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viberooni
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 29, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  Grim Fandango, has it really been so long? What a wonderful game this was, and remains to be, as 
 it holds up very well by today's lofty standards. It's release marked a stunning achievement for 
 adventure games and currently Grim stands proudly as one of the great games of all time, as well 
 as the last hurrah while a genre slowly died. 
  
  The voice acting and writing is just as good as you remember and they give the game a real soul, 
 along with the haunting score by Peter McConnell. For those who haven't played, the background 
 music is a mix of bebop, big band and traditional Mexican themes, all original recordings performed 
 by real musicians in CD quality. The dialogue is Tim Schafer at his best with a cast of memorable 
 and complex characters to work with, as well as one of the most interesting leading men ever to 
 grace the PC. The game is set in perhaps Tim's most original universe yet, and while it may take 
 a few hours to really see some progress in the story it's paced extremely well afterwards. Of course 
 the actors they have reading the lines are perfect, damn near every single character is creative 
 and convincing and these crude 3D models on a monitor become your friends for a few hours because 
 of it.
  
  The artwork is so striking and beautiful in its design that this game will always look good on 
 some level. From the green and blue glow of Rubacava to your imprisonment underwater, the environments 
 were created with utmost care and research, with art deco and Aztec style featured prominently 
 throughout. The polygonal characters, while technically nothing special, work great because they 
 represent the actual paper mache skeleton models from Mexico's Dia de los Muertos, so essentially 
 the developers found a way to turn the graphical limits of the time into a storytelling aid.
  
  In the grand scheme of things, the gameplay was a good early attempt at bringing the point 
 and click genre to 3D with no popup icons or control panel, increasing the immersive feel but foregoing 
 the functionality of more traditional adventures. It's a tradeoff that ultimately works, but it 
 does feel unnatural at first spinning Manny around waiting for his head to move as well as cycling 
 through the clunky but amusing inventory. It's something you get used to quickly, and despite occasional 
 frustrations with the control the game plays intuitively and will be second nature to LucasArts 
 or Sierra veterans. There's tons of puzzling to be had and most is on par or slightly above what 
 the other greats of the genre have to offer. Answers aren't always obvious and you might need to 
 consult a strategy guide once or twice before everything is said and done, even though your actions 
 are ultimately limited by the size of your inventory and the hotspots around Manny. Such is the 
 nature of old school adventure games, but it's worth noting that even if you aren't a big fan of 
 this style game Grim Fandango is a shining example of the formula done right.
  
  Tim Schafer only makes good games, but here his penchant for storytelling and design combined with 
 a talented development team in a perfect storm, resulting in his and arguably the genre's greatest 
 accomplishment to date. The story of Grim Fandango isn't zany like Day of the Tentacle, doesn't 
 have the real world restrictions of Full Throttle and the main characters are a good deal more 
 mature than in Psychonauts. It's humorous, emotional, intelligent fun that may be just another 
 linear adventure game at heart, but it's as grand and unforgettable as any brilliant film or book. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: urluckyday
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2006 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Following in the footsteps of Maniac Mansion and Monkey Island, Tim Schafer made Grim Fandango 
 his last ditch attempt to save adventure games for Lucasarts. He could not have done any better. 
 With beautiful graphics (for the time) , wonderful sound design and voice acting, you better not 
 miss this.
  
  First off, the graphics. Absolutely stunning 3-D graphics revolutionized adventure games (since 
 most back then were still in 2-D) . With beautiful and I must say very artistic backgrounds, this 
 is sure to please even today. I must also say, that Manny Calavera (that's you) has some of the 
 best clothes out of any game character ever (I love his Tux and his Captain outfit... you'll find 
 out) . So in otherwords... graphics rock!
  
  Secondly, the audio. Now... this game was so great in audio that a soundtrack was released for it 
 at some point. The music is top notch, and it fits perfectly with the game. As well as the outstanding 
 music, another aspect of audio is the perfect voice acting. All of the characters have very original 
 voices in which each one has their own personal attitude. Another perfect part about this perfect 
 game.
  
  The only slight downfall that I can see in this is the lack of a lot of replay value, but this 
 is apparent for almost all adventure games, so I won't dock it points, but just keep that in mind.
 
  
  Overall, perfect game... perfect fun... perfect price (I got mine for 15 bucks, but you can get it 
 as low as 10!) ... please guys buy this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalnutter
Rating: 10
Date: May 31, 2006 4:11 am PT
Review:  This game is an instant classic in its own right for the age of the game it has brilliant graphics 
 and the game play is just brilliant. The game came out in 1998 and was not know that much and not 
 many people played it but then people found out that it was from the studios that created the Star 
 wars films and started playing the game. It is a game that you will want to play. The mission isn't 
 always easy to complete but it is easy to work out how to do it. The hard part is doing it. If 
 you play this game then you will be surprised about the graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Pedro_
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 23, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  This is the second time i picked up a game based on community opinions. The First game i picked 
 up in Such a was Deus Ex. Deus Ex grew up to be favourite game of all time and now i've done the 
 same with Grim Fandango. 
  
  Grim Fandango is simply put a masterpiece. This game has an amazing gameplay and even the game 
 itself is nice to look at. The sound fits nice with the story and the cutscenes are brilliantly 
 done. The puzzles were satisfying (except for the one mentioned on the forum, but that was mostly 
 due to my own ignorance)
  
  This game is one of a kind and i advise anyone to pick it up if they find it in a store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timag123
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 22, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  
  A wonderful game with absolutely no weak points. Its witty, beautiful and a blast to play. I got 
 this game a few weeks ago and despite its old age it's still worthy of such a high score and $50. 
 
  
  Graphics: Perfect camera angles, bright colors, good resolution. The only downside is the character 
 models are bulky, but they are still well animated and textured. The biggest thing graphically 
 are the environments. They are scaled perfectly and look amazing! 
  
  Sound: Sounds don't get repetitive and anything that should need a sound gets it. Nothing amazing 
 here besides the soundtrack which is catchy as well as pleasant.
  
  A rare game that is worth any amount you could find it for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ernelson1976
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  After a few run-ins with the dreck passed off as adventure games these days, I dug out my copy 
 of Grim Fandango, which hadn't been played in probably five years. That I kept the game so long 
 is a testament to its place in my heart.
  
  I popped it in, and immediately was happy once more. My only problem was that Manny was running 
 around too danged fast on my screen, so I had to move carefully.
  
  I had long forgotten what a wonderful experience that GF really was. Beautiful writing, an excellent 
 score, original and deep characters with excellent voice acting. Art direction better than some 
 movies. Ah, yes -- perhaps the greatest adventure game ever made.
  
  And it stands up well against games released even in the past six months. It is easier, I suppose 
 for adventure games, since the technology hasn't changed much over the last -- wow, could it really 
 be? -- eight years since GF was released. Dreamfall has probably changed that. What hasn't changed 
 is the power of a good story, and that's what most contemporary adventure games really lack.
  
  GF's humor is understated but very powerful. Yet it never detracts from what is ultimately 
 a moving story. Strange and foreign one moment, and yet oddly personal the next, GF really does 
 what so few games do these days -- lets you into the characters' lives and emotions.
  
  The game was challenging, too. I had forgotten some of the puzzle solutions, but forced myself 
 to play through without looking for assistance. Very difficult at points, but never frustrating 
 in the way some games can be.
  
  Some games get that nostalgic golden glow after so many years, and when you go back you wonder 
 why the game meant so much to you, and why you liked it so much. GF didn't have that problem. I 
 immediately remembered why I loved the game, and it hasn't lost a bit of its beauty and charm. 
 I suspect I'll pull the game out and play every few years until, inevitably, my computer fails 
 to run it due to age.
  
  Ten years is coming up, LucasArts -- how about a 10 year anniversary edition, with updated graphics? 
 I'd pay through the nose for it. Better yet, how about a sequel? Or a prequel? Unlikely. Oh well... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hunty91
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  I first picked up Grim Fandango a few weeks after it was released. Because of my huge admiration 
 for Tim Schafer's earlier adventure games (Day of the Tentacle in particular) , i decided that i 
 would try this as well, though i was skeptical of the new 3D style.
  
  However, this skepticism was blown away within minutes as i entered the most complete, interesting, 
 strange and loveble game world ever created. even modern games such as GTA or even TES cannot compare 
 to the beautiful backdrop to this game. This is both through the fantastic artistic work present 
 in the game, and the atmosphere it sets. Coupled with the music, it makes for a truly great game.
 
  
  It also has a great comic effect, i. e its eccentric characters (Glottis) , Manny's hilarious comments 
 and the sometimes plain weird events that occur in the Land of the Dead. The obvious spoofs of 
 many films and real-life people are also things worth noting.
  
  But it is not only pleasing to the eyes and ears, the puzzles are all in classic Lucasarts style: 
 Hard to figure out, but always has a logical solution. No game to this date has matched the sheer 
 variety of the puzzles in this game.
  
  The story itself is one to rival many classic films. I mean, if this was a movie, it could have 
 had a shot at an Oscar or two. The story gets you deeply involved with Manny's personal struggle, 
 the struggle of those around him, and the corrupt and deep story behind the Land of the Dead. No 
 other game has moved me in the way this game did, and I'm not ashamed to admit that I cried on 
 several occasions.
  
  All in all, this is by far the best game made in every department. Although it is not to everyone's 
 taste, I myself believe that no other game has, or will ever better the standard set by Grim Fandango. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monsierfreak
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2006 4:32 am PT
Review:  Imagine this, you are all gladly -doo-do-ly-do going to heaven. Then a mugger comes and steals 
 your ticket. What would you do? If you were Manny Calavera, the right choice would be "nothing 
 at all". Unless, of course, there was a lady involved and a journey of self-knowing.
  But of course he's not that bad, he is just a little too accommodated. And that's what it makes 
 of Grim Fandango a great game. Every dialog is inspired in such way that you can laugh the whole 
 time you play the game. The voice acting is something that you only can hear to believe, you can 
 really see how the characters are developing.
  The strangest bit is that if you're an old school adv player, it will take a long time to get the 
 feel of the 3d environment, but when you get it you'll see that that was the best graphics you 
 could ask for.
  At last, the challenge can keep you guessing for a really long time. And sometimes the way is not 
 that obvious, but neither are the jokes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gurkan88
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 18, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is so far the best adventure game ever made by Lucas Arts and I really advice everyone 
 to try it, it's great. Grim Fandango has a superb storyline in which you travel to many different 
 places. The areas in the game are very nicely done and the sounds are very good. The characters 
 in Grim Fandango are quite good too, you understand what kind of personality they have and the 
 voices are right for every character. The graphics on the characters are quite old but that doesn't 
 really matter and if you do think that matters, then you're probably just a big complainer or not 
 interested in this kind of game.
  I strongly advice people not to uce a walktrough the first time you play it, that will ruin the 
 fun with Grim Fandango. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viper_najem
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 4, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  Grim Fandango was the first of the Lucasarts adventures that I had tried. I had heard they all 
 were very good and because Grim Fandango was the only one I could find in a physical store (not 
 online) , I thought I would give it a go. My initial expectations were that it would be a fun adventure 
 with some humor and item puzzles like the ones I had tried in Zork Grand Inquisitor the year before, 
 only in 3D and in a third-person view. I soon found that I had definitely underestimated this game! 
 
  
  This game is a ton of fun. The story starts out strangely enough; you are Manny Calavera, a "person" 
 who works in the Underworld for the agency down there that brings people over who have died and 
 tries to sell them a travel package to the afterlife. While Manny is trying investigate why a great 
 client was shifted from his responsibility to a rival's, he discovers the LSA, the Lost Souls Alliance, 
 an underground alliance group trying to break through the money hungry agency that Manny works 
 for. Manny ends up joining, getting himself into more than he bargained for. I'll stop there as 
 to not give away too much of the fantastic story of this game. But the real reason I loved this 
 game is that it isn't like any other adventure I had played before. I had played Myst, Riven, Zork 
 Nemesis and Zork Grand Inquisitor before this, but none of them had such a great plot, such a great 
 interface, and only Zork Grand Inquisitor had as much humor. Thats what makes this game special. 
 The web of story, humor (intelligent and immature alike) , puzzles that don't get you frustrated 
 (like Myst) , a great interface and great graphics (for the time, but anti-aliasing makes it still 
 look amazing compared to todays games) combines to make a great game that is the second adventure 
 I've seen for the PC that IGN gave over a 9. (Grim Fandango got a 9.4 and The Longest Journey got 
 a 9.3) . 
  
  If you love or even just sort of like adventure games, get this game now! If you've been curious 
 about adventures, this is the game to start with! If you haven't liked adventures in the past, 
 try the demo (54.4MB) and see if this is different from the games that turned you off of the genre. 
 Overall this game is a AAA game and is tied for my favorite adventure game of all time (with The 
 Longest Journey) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloudstrife145
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2006 1:54 am PT
Review:  Grim Fandango is I gotta say the 2nd best creation of LucasArts games! It has REALLY VERY unforgettable 
 characters such as Manny Calivera, Glottis, and other more! 
  
  Manny Calivera, (the main character) goes around the Land of the Dead trying to make things fair 
 from the clutches of Domino and his main boss.... Hector. He's trying to stop the chaos around the 
 Land of the Dead from them. 
  
  The game has one of the best plots a game could ever have! The gameplay, the music, and the graphics 
 are all very AWESOME. The gameplay of the game is almost the same as the Monkey Island series, 
 especially Monkey island 4. I found the gameplays of all the Monkey Island series and Grim Fandango 
 a really fun gameplay which makes me always have fun all day long. I get really addicted to Grim 
 Fandango because it has such a good story and such a GREAT gameplay.
  
  This is certainly a game that should be noticed as a "must buy game" because this game has all 
 the contents! Gameplay, graphics, music, value, you name it, you got it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sokuni
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 15, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  Oh yeah. You read it right. Salesmen. This idea is one of the best I've seen in an adventure games 
 ever! You know, Grim Fandango's World is the Land Of The Dead, which is only a temporary area for 
 those who are moving towards hell or heaven. The catch is, that how well you have lived your life, 
 the better ride you get to your final destination. The lousiest choice is to walk... and the best 
 is the Number Nine -train! Behold!
  
  Oh, and there's is even lousier option than the walk. If there wasn't, there wouldn't be any salesmen, 
 so that's why the lousiest guys are being the salesmen. Hehe, this is truly is a hilarious idea, 
 yet very genius. Thumbs up!
  
  So, you are Manny Calavera, a top selling agent in the past, a flop nowadays. Everything has their 
 reasons, don't they? So does the downhill of Manny. There is something crooked behind the scenes, 
 there must be. And there is, and it's up to you to reveal the corrupted background.
  
  Everything starts with a dull day. It's the annual Day of The Living, when all the dead people 
 can visit their living friends and relatives for one day in a year. Wouldn't that be marvelous 
 in real life too? Oh yeah. That'd be great! Anyways, the story of the game is one of the most interesting 
 I've met. It has many twists, and lots of humour! The jokes are very good and make you smile even 
 after days! Brilliant. 
  
  Talking about the world of Grim Fandango, they're beautifully rendered 2D -backgrounds that please 
 your eye anytime, any place. Simply just top notch! The playing characters and objects are rendered 
 in 3D, which also look very good. The cutscenes are very well made too, so you shouldn't have any 
 problem with that. Simply put beautiful.
  
  I do not wonder the hype of this game, this sure was a jackpot by LucasArts, it's too bad they 
 don't make these games anymore. To change the subject, the audio world made me speechless. First 
 of all, the music. Ahh, the melodies, Latin -influenced lounge-music that make you chill to the 
 bone. I couldn't think of better songs in this game. Also, the voice acting is a true diamond. 
 There are no voices that sound wrong, and especially the voice of Manny and Don are just terrific, 
 not to forget Domino. I just can't say a bad word of this game.
  
  The only thing that worried me in the beginning, is the controlling system, which has converted 
 from mouse to keyboard. You find it difficult and stupid in the beginning, but you'll get used 
 to it as soon as you catch on with the plot. Good thing that it doesn't spoil the game.
  
  Oh well, the conclusion. Grim Fandango is one of the best adventure games of all times. It's innovative, 
 interesting, intriguing and marvelous in overall. I recommend this game for everyone that like 
 a jolly good adventure. The game is a bit difficult, it has very hard puzzles in several places, 
 but after using time and your head, you'll figure the most of them. Anyways, this is Top Notch!
 
  
  That compass will surely come handy too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frontball
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 8, 2006 11:23 am PT
Review:  This game simply blew me away, even though I played it for the first time about 7 years after its 
 release. I decided to check it out, and was NOT disappointed in the least!
  
  As far as adventures go, this one is unique. Playing on the old Mexican legends of the afterlife, 
 Grim Fandango creates a never before seen concept in games. Throwing in some film noire content 
 and truckloads of humor, the game is one of the linear adventure games I'd play over and over and 
 over again! 
  
  The controls, not different from the original Alone in the Dark, are easy to learn and well adapted. 
 Sometimes you may find the path through a certain area hard to locate, but nothing 30 seconds of 
 repeated attempts won't fix. One complaint I have is the overall difficulty one might have solving 
 the puzzles, as the game has no way but the right way type puzzles. I am ashamed to say that after 
 2 hours of frustration, I often had to consult a walkthrough. But it took nothing away from the 
 intriguing storyline. Other than minor glitches, it played through beautifully. 
  
  The graphics were pretty standard to me. Your average prerendered environments with 3-D characters. 
 Liked it in Final Fantasy 8 and 9, still like it here. Beautifully done to match the film noire 
 style and creatively tweaked to reveal the land of the dead.
  
  Beautiful musical score from 50's film noire to Mexican celebration. The voices were flawless and 
 only added to the impressiveness of the game.
  
  The game is a classic definitely worth playing. Those who haven't because they don't enjoy this 
 type of adventure game, you will LOVE the characters and the story. Try it, you owe it that much. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simpaticoman
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2006 2:40 am PT
Review:  When you have one of those melancholic days when everything past was best and when your memories 
 come along bringing you all those videogaming memories you treasure, you are probably about to 
 think on one of these 3 types of games:
  
  1) Arcade games (I would be if every single coin inserted would be in my pocket right now)
  2) 
 Escape from Wolfenstein and Doom (It was the beginning of everything. WW II shooters, Quake, Descent, 
 Halo, Unreal, Half-life, ...)
  3) Graphic adventures.
  
  In this category there was a man who seek further than anybody else. His name was Tim Schaffer. 
 He created Monkey Island (I, II III and IV) Manic Mansion (Primitive but still fun to play) and 
 Day of the tentacle (Oh my god!) Sam and Max and Full Throttle. And, in capital letters, when an 
 succesful era was about to come to an end, ... GRIM FANDANGO
  It is something you must live. Like the best video adventure you can imagine. "This little light 
 o'mine, I'm gonna let it shine ..." "Maaaanyyy, what are you dooooiiiing..."
  Ok, back to work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greatatlantic
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 30, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  If you've played Psychonauts, then you know just how incredibly creative Tim Schaffer can be. His 
 worlds are colorful, incredibly surreal, and some how remind us of real life. However, Psychonauts 
 wasn't the first Schaeffer masterpiece, his first game that really made people double look and 
 say "wow" was Grim Fandango.
  
  This is an old school adventure game, that shows little influence from the groundbreaking Myst 
 franchise. The background is a static 2d image, with 3d characters doing whatever they do, including 
 your own avatar and PC, Manny Calavera. The backgrounds are still impressive despite the date. 
 Some of the animation and cutscenes can run a little rough, but still get the job done. All in 
 all, for a 7 year old game, its graphics hold up very well. Getting it to run in XP is tricky, 
 and might require you to use the compatibility modes. I ran it in for Windows 95 and 256 colors 
 compatibility mode and had very few performance issues. Make certain to patch, however.
  
  That out of the way, lets get to the meat of this game. To not like Grim Fandango is to not like 
 creativity itself. The game is based on Mexican folklore and occurs in the Land of the Dead, with 
 a twist. The eighth level of the underworld is has cities, parades, industries, criminals, race 
 tracks, and most importantly- travel agencies. You play Manny Calavera, who works as a travel agent 
 for the aptly named Deparment of Death. Its his job to sell travel packages to the ninth underworld, 
 the ultimate goal for all the dead. How good of a travel package the qualify for is based on how 
 good of a life they lived. The worst are stuffed into boxes and put into the mail for four years 
 to get to the gate. The best, get to ride the Number Nine train to the gate that gets them there 
 in four minutes flat. However, something is not right. Mr. Calavera notices that one of the most 
 worthy souls does not qualify for a ticket on the number nine. That sets him on a path to uncover 
 the corruption plaguing the department of death and all of the land of the dead.
  
  Sound interesting? It is. Making it even more interesting is the very clever and witty writting 
 and the superp voice actors who bring it to life. In an age where voice actors were just as likely 
 to be developers, Grim Fandango has stood the test of time in this department and the characters 
 are all the more interesting because of it. This is an authentically funny game, which made me 
 literally laugh out loud on a frequent basis.
  
  Yes, it offers all that and more. However, its not with out its flaws. At its heart its a style 
 of gameplay that has gone out of style, for a reason. To advance the plot requires you to overcome 
 puzzles and obstacles. These are a direct throw back to the old text adventure days of trying to 
 figure out the right command to input. This time around, its finding items you can pick up and 
 use, and then using them where ever you can to figure out how they are suppose to work. OK, it 
 isn't quite that bad and usually the game provides some context for you to work with, but some 
 of the puzzles are still very frustrating and arbitrary. For example, one puzzle requires you to 
 smoke a cigar so the ashtray isn't available for somebody else when they need it and burn themselves. 
 Why? So you can get their stockings. Why? So you can trade them for something else you need. For 
 every puzzle where its clear what you need to do, there are another 2 that are overly vague.
  
  However, with the rise of the internet, should any puzzle prove to be too frustrating, the 
 solution is just a search engine for "Walkthrough" away. With this in mind, the game strengths 
 easily outweigh its poorer moments, and its a shame that so few games are made like it. The dated 
 mechanics could be easily updated to be more in line with something like Syberia or Myst IV, or 
 even Psychonauts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nodham
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 22, 2006 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Adventure games are all about story , dialogue, and puzzles. Neglect one and it'll drag the whole 
 production down. 
  Grim Fandango nails all three and deserves the term masterpiece. This is the type of game that 
 rival companies fear as it makes their products look inferior. Have you ever wondered why there 
 are so little adventure games coming out? The logical answer is because they don't contain quad 
 damage and revolvers and therefore don't sell well, but it may also be because they're so hard 
 to do. Not only is Grim Fandango's story brilliantly written, the setting is also ingenious. You 
 have never played a game in the Mexican Land of the Dead and that's what makes it so captivating. 
 The added treat is that the game universe is part film noir, part fiesta, but handled with enough 
 humour to remain lighthearted and just enough sentimentality to remain touching. 
  The control scheme takes a few minutes of getting used to but in the end works just fine. 
  The 
 puzzles are logical in an adventure-game sort of way. The solution may not be apparent, but when 
 you figure it out you won't be left wondering how on earth you were supposed to deduce it. Simply 
 put, excellently designed. There were only two areas where I felt I was reduced to too much trial 
 and error (one involved a direction sign, for those in the know) but once past these areas the 
 game picks up again.
  Finally, the best proof of the game's appeal lies in the characters. I already mentioned the great 
 writing, but these characters are so well done that you start feeling you'll miss them as the game 
 draws to a close. And that is the highest compliment possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsouthern
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 22, 2006 1:12 am PT
Review:  How many times have you played a game, and then in that day or two after you finished, have you 
 kind of wished there was another game like Grim Fandango? If you haven't then you've never played. 
 I have scoured all of the choices I might have missed and although I found some good ones, they 
 have never compared in the same way. The only games I have a softer spot for are The Pandora Directive 
 and Journeyman BIT- the games that really started it all for me. I won't bother to mention Zork 
 here because it doesnt really fit. I have sold every game I ever played except this one, sold them 
 all, and yet I cannot bring myself to part with this game. I just may want to play it a tenth time, 
 after all. I'm getting misty eyed :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lingermania
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 17, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  Grim Fandango is truly a exciting game with a lot of puzzles and has a grate story, it's like the 
 game was made out of a grate book; but now the game is better than the book. I plaid the game in 
 some days, it was difficult at the beginning but then the puzzles started to get easier and you 
 used your imagination to do the puzzles.
  I thought the game was grate; the sound, the graphics, the background and what matters the most 
 the storyline. The games have so many characters and the voice of the characters are acted real 
 good, if I where you and you where going to play this game I would listen to everything the characters 
 say it makes the game 35 % better.
  
  Thank you, Lingermania. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: z4kn4f31n
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2006 5:44 am PT
Review:  This game is great! Just the size it should be. Very difficult in some places, easy in other. 
 
  It combines fun with humorous dialogues and faces with the adventure element only lucas arts can 
 create.
  I suggest this game to EVERYONE who wants himself be called an adventure gamer. This is the best 
 of the series for sure! Played it at least 5 times and still i am not bored of it! If you haven't 
 tried playing it i suggest you should get it and you will see what i am talking about!
  
  PLEASE CONTINUE these games, these games are really masterpieces this one is the best adventure 
 game i've ever played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spinningwheel
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 3, 2006 10:21 pm PT
Review:  I thought it is about time I volunteered something to the gamespot community and since all I have 
 to offer is pretty much opinions on games, what a better way to start than by reviewing Grim Fandango. 
 The only game I can honestly call the "greatest of all time" while keeping a straight face.
  
  In Grim Fandango we have two things. First, we have the culmination of every good thing that 
 every was in LucasArts adventure gaming (the best school of adevnture gaming ever) in to one rounded, 
 brilliant product. If there has been any doubt about the ability of LucasArts to produce the wittiest, 
 most intelligent and hilarious games, Grim Fandango simply eliminated all of it. In a few words, 
 Grim Fandango is without any question the best written/scripted game of all time.
  
  Second, Grim Fandango boasts the best artistic direction in any game ever. The art and graphical 
 setting is not only beautiful (even by today's standards) , but truly original mixing the seemingly 
 mismatched themes of Mexican folklore and Aztec Mythology with Film Noir type Art Deco setting 
 in what I would not shy away from calling an artistic masterpiece (not only within the gaming world, 
 but beyond) . Not only the graphics, but the sound as well carry this artistic quality with theme 
 songs bringing head to head Aztec and Inca pan flute music with 30s Swings Jazz and 40s Bebop in 
 a melting pot that surprsingly fits completely with the story line and the background in one seemingly 
 continous whole. The soundtrack is without a doubt one of the greatest in any game and a true motivation 
 to any listener to listen to more jazz (you might be surprised, but some reviewers actually claimed 
 that Grim Fandango got them into jazz!) . To top it all, the voice acting is top class. While top 
 quality soundacting is no stranger to LucasArts, this game in particular allow for far more character 
 as you share with the characters four years of their journey through the land of the dead. 
  
  The puzzles, while they are fun in their own right, are really not the reason to play this 
 game. This game is about story, and a lovely one at that. By the end you sieze to see it all as 
 a game and simply as an experience. Although the ending is a most staisfactory one and the game 
 is long, at the end you simply don't want it to end. Now seven years after first playing this game 
 I can honestly say I envy anyone who hasn't played it yet as nothing is quite like playing it first 
 time around. Buy it with confidence.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TofuLegend
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 2, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  When people ask me what I think is the best game ever, (like the retro-nerd I am) I used to say 
 something like Last Ninja 3 or Nintendo World Cup.
  That was until I played Grim Fandango. It's really hard to describe how much I like this game. 
 It really has everything. Its funny, challenging, has a great story, some romance, great music, 
 great voice acting and above all: a fantastic atmosphere.
  Ive played it about 3 times now and loved it even more every time.
  
  It's the perfect introduction 
 to Lucas Arts and SCUMM-style adventure games which will give you many hours of good gaming.
  
  Buy Grim Fandango if you haven't played it and stop buying those friggin' star wars-games so 
 we'll see some new Lucas Arts adventure games.
  
  PS. Maybe Grim Fandangos graphics is a bit dated (pretty good for it's time though) and doesn't 
 deserve a 10, but anything under 10.0 overall wouldn't do the game justice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZenOfThunder
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2005 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Really. It is. I have yet to play better. 
  
  Grim Fandago puts you in the shoes of travel agent of the dead, Manny Calavera. Manny is trapped 
 in the city of the dead until he sells enough product to the nely dead. What is this product? Travel 
 packages to whatever lies beyond the city. If you're bad, you get a walking stick. With a compass 
 on top, that comes in handy. And if you're really good (like a saint) , you get a ticket on the 
 Number 9, a train that takes you to the afterlife in 4 minutes than the usual 4 years it takes.
 
  
  Unfotunatley for Manny, he's losing all the sales to his employee Domino. This is all just one 
 part of the huge, deep and interesting plot of Grim Fandango. 
  
  The gameplay is basic point and clicking... without the pointing and clicking. Instead, you use 
 the arrow keys to walk around. Manny may control like a ***** at the starts, but it gets easier 
 as you go. You use items on different objects to see if it advances the plot. It's a lot more difficult 
 than it seems, but oh-so rewarding. Hilarious cutscenes and such await.
  
  I actually got so attatched to the characters that when one was hurt or such, I did a Vader NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO 
 with a CATS double exclamation point !! I loved each and every moment controlling Manny, even if 
 it was a bit frustrating. 
  
  Yup, best Adventure game ever. Why aren't you ordering yet? Actually, why are you reading this? 
 You should have the game already and know that it's good without having to read reviews. Hurry 
 up and buy it, it's too underappreciated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bum_boy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 26, 2005 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Well the game is definitely a must buy for any adventurer. From story to character development 
 to all the humor. One of Lucas Arts' best games. All the characters are very memorable, and the 
 plot twists will make you have unpleasent sleep. 
  
  Though it took me only whole two days to finish, it was an amazing finish and very satisfying. 
 I don't normally finish games as they get tedious though I couldn't stop playing this. Even though 
 some of the puzzles could get you pulling your hair out, it becomes quite obvious once you figure 
 it out. 
  
  The graphics are made very nicely, only the models of the charecters are actually there, everything 
 else is just either a still life or a CGI video. 
  
  On the whole this game was superb, the story is still intruiging after 3 days from finishing it. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulxcs
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2005 2:18 pm PT
Review:  First of all this game is one of those where you will remember the characters, the plot, the phrases, 
 as in the spanish version: "Viva La Revolucion, Manuel !hah.. such a good thing. 
  
  These game collects all the requirements to be a 10 points game, because its plot is very solid, 
 but funny at same time, the characters are very weird, and very top-class, nothing is better than 
 inserting CD2 and watch the old destroyed giant pickle turning into a Calavera Caffe sign, and 
 then he in his fine , top of the line white suit. C'mon, he is the good looking skeleton of the 
 place.
  
  This game traps you in, and puts you on each funny weird situation and problem to resolve, messing 
 with the mafia, the revolution, the travel agency, the casino, the lighthouse, the cats races, 
 the 9 train. All of them are crazy issues with a great funny humor sense, that adapts to all ages 
 children.
  
  The graphics are great, and that the characters are bones, is one of the greatest ideas ever. The 
 souns are just excellent: wind, sea, cars, cats, everything, and the gameplay is as simple as it 
 is, mouse+keyboard.
  
  This game deserves the 10 out of 10
  Thanks for reading my review, thanks for your time, I expect you enjoyed the 
  reading.
  
 
  Sincerely
  P. J. M. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thisisthepope
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 13, 2005 11:20 am PT
Review:  This will be the swansong of Lucasarts adventure games and sadly the one that would make a fitting 
 tombstone for the genre. I was a fan of Lucasarts adventure games since Monkey Island II debuted 
 with AdLib sound on my SoundBlaster soundcard and 256 colors on my VGA monitor (and I remember 
 making the brash statement "Where are they gonna go from there? It's real!") .
  
  And then came Full Throttle which became my favorite game for a long time and then game designer 
 Tim Schaffer gave us this, Grim Fandango, a beautifully scripted game with breathtaking art and 
 the most memorable characters to date. This one is up there with Planescape Torment as my favorite 
 game.
  
  What really makes it or breaks it for me is always the story and Grim Fandango plays the noir genre 
 like a trumpet in the hands of Miles Davis. A mish mash of Casablanca, the Maltese Falcon, Chinatown 
 and a host of other movies, Schaffer sets his adventure in the Land of the Dead. Almost every character 
 remains emblazoned into my mind to this day, whether it is our jack-of-all-trades, bony protagonist; 
 Manny or Schaffer's love for hotrods personified; Glottis, down to the supporting cast of mini-demons 
 who work on the afterlife's cablecars or Salvadore Limones, the revolutionary with a penchant for 
 dead carrier pigeons. To this day I catch myself thinking of catchphrases spouted by these characters 
 and give it a wee chuckle knowing very few people in the world would know what I'm talking about. 
 You can tell that Schaffer enjoys his job as every character has reams of script lines they can 
 go through. This game isn't for those who like to finish games, but rather for those who enjoy 
 them. Take it slow and just speak to everyone and use everything on everything.
  
  Graphically I would contend that this game hasn't suffered the passage of time one bit. The Lucasarts 
 team wisely spun the basic 3D graphics of the foreground characters into a particular style that 
 gives this game it's age-defying factor. Every environment is painstakingly designed with art deco 
 motifs for the urban sprawl to the creeping art nouveau for the decadent underworld of casinos 
 and crime where the dead spend the last days of their lives. The music is suitably schnazzy and 
 creates a beautiful ambience in the background that keeps the graphics sizzling at a cool but temperate 
 pace.
  
  You will follow Manny as he quests to redeem himself in the Land of the Dead. Schaffer manages 
 to keep the laughs coming and then pull the blinds down to create dark spots where you get sucked 
 into the poignancy of the scenes. I would say that Schaffer's games always have great endings and 
 Fandango reigns supreme. As in the flaming carrierplane with severed wings chase and cliffhanger 
 at the end of Full Throttle, Fandango's ending is majestic, sad and beautiful.
  
  So, before we all shuffle off this mortal coil to an afterlife that will probably be a lot less 
 stylish and a lot more boring, give this one a spin. Do it now because Manny says : You can't hide 
 from the Grim Reaper. Especially when he's got a gun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kainenable
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 9, 2006 1:41 am PT
Review:  The best adventure game i have ever played. It ranks as my #1 favorite game period. 
  
  Where do you start. The premise story and plot are almost instantly addictive as you traverse the 
 land of the dead looking to pay pennence for whatever sins you have commited in life. The story 
 will take you from location to location, each beautifull, unique and engrossing. 
  
  What truly drives this story and makes you want to continue playing is the story but primarily 
 the characters. You really care about these characters. They are intellegent and 3-dimensional, 
 with motivations and weeknes's. Even the secondary characters are really well thought out and you 
 will find yourself either loving or hating them. The style of the game also helps tremendously 
 with this. It is again totally unique, resembing a film-noir movie with mayan artistic influences. 
 You have never seen anything like this before and it is doubtfull you will ever see anythign like 
 this again. 
  
  The music is also top notch, i personally downloaded the soundtrack just to listen to it.
  
 
  The humor of this game is also terrific. It does not hit you over head with it. It makes playing 
 the game that much more enjoyable.
  
  I am sorry I am gushing but its hard not to when talking about such an endearing and memorable 
 game.
  
  At the end i were sad you were not going to see anymore of these characters, even though the ending 
 was very satisfactory. Anyway, if you like adventure games this is a must-have game for your collection. 
 Even if you don't it is still worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvilPope2005
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 23, 2005 4:17 pm PT
Review:  Grim Fandango.. how do I describe it? Freakin' Sweet, thats how. Its got a great story, you really 
 have to think (alot) if you want to complete it. I would reacomend this game to anyone (unless they 
 don't like thinking, then you should run because it won't be enjoyable) . There's not much better 
 than watching a fat (very fat) demon rip out his heart and throw it into the petrified forest. It 
 sometimes takes hours to figure out what to do next. The solution may be as simple as stealing 
 a co-worker's mouth piece, or agravating a security guard to such an extent that she throws the 
 medal detector out the window (it was hard thinking of examples because i haven't played in a long 
 time) . No matter how simple, the answer will always (almost always) be something you have to think 
 about for quite a long time. I've said all I need to say (all I think I need to say) about this 
 great game (how about freakin' sweet game) . You should buy it, and its pretty old now (isn't it?) 
 so it shouldn't cost much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valvolino
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 23, 2005 2:03 pm PT
Review:  I have played many and i mean MANY games in teh past 7 years but no game has ever surpassed Grim 
 Fandango yet... I guess there might be ppl that will doubt that , but it's trye. And i'm not even 
 a big fan of quests.. but this , this is the game... there shouldn't be a gamer who hasn't played 
 it.. It is absolutely the best what else can i say... hopefully they'll make a Grim Fandango 2... but 
 aah not , better not.. it'll neevr be the same as the original... Thsi game makes u get in the game 
 , to feel what the characters in it feel... to get part of it... just like reading a book (i don't 
 read boks lol...: p) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WolksWagen
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2005 11:28 am PT
Review:  The true adventure game genre started way back a long time ago with a company called Infocom.... 
 ever hear of them? The first title was Zork, hear about that at least? The idea was simple: Go 
 here, use this object on this item, solve this puzzle, ect. Adventure games required you to use 
 you're head. in time, the adventure game expanded. Soon, we had King's quest, Space Quest, Adventure 
 of Monkey island, and many others. Well Im sorry to say the Adventure game as we all knew and loved 
 it is a dying Genre. But before it drops off the face of the earth, Lucas Arts (yes the Star Wars 
 people) brought us one last good adventure game. 
  
  Grim Fandango. Its as funny as it is beautiful. Based loosely on Mayan mythology, all the characters 
 in the game are skeletons ala a Day of the Dead festival. in fact, the game takes place during 
 the day of the dead. you assume the role of Manny Calavera, a lowly worker bee in the DoD (department 
 of Death... this is the Afterlife you know) Who stumbles upon a crime of epic proportions... and 
 a woman who gives him the cold shoulder. How do they relate to each other? Well, you'll just have 
 to play the game to find out. 
  
  You cant die in the game (you're already dead anyway) , so the object is to solve the puzzles which 
 range from simple to annoying (Note to any Lucas arts people who may be reading this... That safe-cracking 
 puzzle in year 3? I'll get you for that!) 
  
  Graphically the game is fantastic. Rather than go the polygonal route as some have, lucasArts went 
 for prerendered backgrounds ala resident evil. the result is a MUCH sharper/cleaner look than normal, 
 and it allows the computer to spend all its time focusing on character animations. Characters, 
 though they are skeletons, are EASILY identifyable. Bad skeletons look bad, Good skeletons look 
 good, and sexy skeletoons look like Callista Flockhart (No offense to all Ally fans, one of which 
 I am. Note to Calista: EAT A COOKIE!) 
  
  Sound is incredible! the Music is never annoying, and the voice acting is dead on accurate (no 
 pun intended) Controls are simple, and the interface is fantastic. The story is good too, I just 
 wish I could have gotten that lawyer. 
  
  Graphics-10: Sharp! Colorful! Mayan themes run rampant with A touch of Noir. 
  
  Sound-10: 
 My only regret is I cannot steal the music from the game to play in my car on the way to work. 
 
  
  Camera-10: never a problem, always in the right spot. 
  
  Playabilty/Replayability-10: Perfect. Though once you play it thru, you see little point in doing 
 it again. 
  
  Overall-10: buy this game, or you'll regret it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtomicEdge
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 6, 2005 8:36 am PT
Review:  Back when I was sporting a Pentium MMX 200 I played the demo of Grim Fandango, its strange and 
 attractive graphics and the movie-esque trailer drew me to it. Being nout but a wee 13 year old 
 at the time, I couldn't afford it and I had to wait 'till the birthday, excitely I popped it into 
 my CD drive and (after cleaning out some of my 3 gig hardrive) I installed it. I was so upset. 
 It seemed that 16mb of ram was not enough for this beast. So I clubbed together my birthday money 
 and got myself up to 64 meg of ram. The Power!
  
  I was engrossed, this game was, to my mind, what games were made for. Manuel Calavera, a very charming 
 reaper, was by far the richest charactor I had ever come across in a game and those that surrounded 
 him (Glottis, Meche, Domino, Hector and many more) were all as vivid.
  
  The story is amazing, and after 4 play throughs, I still chuckle and and cry.
  
  Give it a 
 go, these days you can pick it up for a fiver and it will run on any system (if its patched to 
 run on XP) and is well worth it. Play it and fall in love with it. My only snag is that a sequal 
 has never been announced...
  
  Viva la revolution!
  
  (Graphics Reviewed as my first reaction, though not too ugly, they are now aged.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Msk8
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 9, 2005 12:20 pm PT
Review:  It's May 2005, and I'm walking though Wal-Mart with only $10 left from my 15th birthday party the 
 week before. A copy of Grim Fandango catches my eye. By now I've heard nothing but great reviews 
 of the game, but I was reluctant to get it because of it's age and the fact that I don't like slow 
 paced games. I go to put it back, and I think, "... ah what the hell, it's $10!"
  
  So when I got home I played my new copies of God of War and Mercenaries, got tired around 2 a. m. 
 and crashed. When I wake up, my little brothers hacking away at a hyrda on the PS2 and I'm thinking 
 "Great, I get to play the game from '98."
  
  Damn I was naive. 
  
  This is one of those games that would have bored the hell out of me if it wasn't for some of the 
 greatest characters, amazing locations, an epic sense scale and the true feeling of being in some 
 alternate reality. I can't begin to describe my feelings about this game, because I'll never shut 
 up. So I'll try to put them in an organised stats system.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  
  Even in 2005, the game holds up as a fun adventure game. Although all you do is move Manny, select 
 items and press enter, the fun comes from thinking of a crazy solution to a crazy puzzle. This 
 game surprised me so much, in that it made me love a combination of genres I usually have no interest 
 in. One problem you may find is that most puzzle's solutions aren't obvious, and it helps to have 
 a strategy guide near-by in case you can't get past a particular hurdle. But when you do solve 
 a puzzle, the reward is more than worth any frustrations you had.
  
  Graphics: 7
  
  The graphical limitations at the time were perfect for the art style of this game. In '98 blocky 
 characters with low-res textures were the norm. So instead of trying to make characters and downgrading 
 their look for the system specs, they had the idea to use the character design of Mexican Folk 
 Art, and mix it with a great film noir setting. It comes off very well and looks great all these 
 years later.
  
  Sound: 8
  
  Great voice-overs, immersive ambient noise and an equally great soundtrack make up the sounds of 
 the game. The voice-overs in the game are above average quality, and tend to bring the characters 
 to life with truly witty, always interesting dialogue. My thanks go out to Tim Schafer and his 
 team for creating some of the most memorable conversations in a game, or movie for that matter. 
 The ambient sound helps to give you that extra layer of immersion and the soundtrack always fits 
 the mood and setting. Combine these qualities and you've got a formula for rhythmic success.
  
  Value: 10
  
  The main selling point in the game is the ride it takes you on. The transitions 
 between the "Years" in this four year journey give each chapter it's own look and mood. His fall 
 from Grim Reaper greatness brings about an amazing story of revenge, friendship, love, and redemption. 
 All the while keeping you on your toes, entertained, and wondering what great new adventure Manny 
 and company have to take on to get to their final destination.
  
  Tilt: 10 
  
  The main downfall of the game is that it ends. By the time you've gone through virtual years with 
 these characters, and made tons of great memories, you wont want to leave the land of the dead. 
 You'll watch the final scene, happy for the closure of an epic tale, but sad that you'll no longer 
 get to see the gang together. Games like these are rare gems, and few games equal it's distinct 
 feeling and it's totally immersive story. In short, go to the store and pick this one up. You won't 
 regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t0v3
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 29, 2005 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Even though I completed this game many years ago now, it still sticks in my mind as one of the 
 most enjoyable games i've ever played. It sits there along side all time classics such as Day of 
 the tentacle, Sam & Max, The longest Journey, Monkey island, broken sword ect. They just don't 
 make games like this anymore, today it's all fancy graphics and unimaginative story telling along 
 with dull boring characters and settings. Sure we get a few really high quality games each year, 
 but they just don; t have that charm and charisma that these old school adventure games had.
  
  You could probably pick this up in a bargain bin somewhere for 5 now, and for all you young 
 ones who missed out on this, you really should give it a go. Take a trip back in time and see how 
 top quality games used to be made. 
  
  The characters are original and fun, the story is brilliant and you'll want to keep playing to 
 find out how it progresses. The settings are varied, the puzzles are creative yet not too hard 
 nor too easy. Theres notthing more to be said, just go and get it if you've never played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zen444
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2005 5:29 am PT
Review:  This is probably the best game ever made. You must own this, if you dont. I hope you die.
  This is the last great game Lucas Arts made, before going crazy and slapping "Star Wars" on all 
 there games. Ok, time for the review.
  
  Gameplay: I usually dont like adventure games, but the atmosphere and characters made me really 
 want to play. Especially Manny Calavara, he's one of the coolest main characters EVER! Not only 
 is it one of the hardest adventure games ever, it also has some simple mini games. But its an adventure, 
 by this time I hope you understand. But ill explain, sometimes puzzles just require you using an 
 item on a background object or person. But this game has some real brain scratchers, I won't spoil 
 anything, but trust me, you'll need a strategy guide once and awhile. You can use a joypad, im 
 assuming it works well.
  
  Graphics: Im betting when this game was released, people where sh! tting themselves on how awesome 
 this game looked. The backgrounds... are undescribeable, they look awesome with a mexican influence. 
 None of the characters look the same.
  
  Sound: Dont get me started, I could talk about the music all day. All, and I mean all the music 
 is awesome. The characters have a distinct sound to them, especially Manny Calavara. He is probably 
 the driving force to playing this game, he's very funny/sarcastic for a dead man.
  
  Value: You can't unlock anything, persay. But you can watch the movies over again. You can also 
 read the transcripts. Plus since this game is very fun, you'll play it a few more times. I also 
 recomend saving at fun spots.
  
  In the end, you should just buy it. Its 10$, its fun, it will work on new computers. It's probably 
 the best game ive ever played, nothing compares to Grim Fandango. And thats sad, since i'll never 
 see a great game like Grim Fandango again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediMoogle
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 15, 2005 11:01 pm PT
Review:  You are Manny Calavera, an agent in the Land of the Dead who used to be on top, until that Dom 
 guy came around. Now you've got to climb the ladder again or there won't be an office for you anymore.
 
  
  Welcome to the world of Grim Fandango.
  
  Let's start off with the basics, this is an adventure/puzzle game, so there's no combat. But the 
 lack of tension-filled action is made up for in humor, clever puzzles, good art style, and well 
 done dialogue.
  
  Right off the bat you'll notice how superb the game's voice acting is. In fact, it's so good, you'll 
 actually think its an old movie, but in color.
  
  The art style is excellently done. LucasArts took Mexican style art and culture and blended it 
 so well with oldtime American movies that it just... wow. I'm at a lack of words here. The atmosphere 
 of the game is so unique and compelling, it'll keep you there for hours on end.
  
  My only complaint is on the controls and the lack of a tutorial telling what button does what, 
 I found the menu by accident. Other than that though, I have no complaints about this game.
  
  In short, anyone with a good enough PC should pick up this game, you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cycloptis
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 1, 2005 4:52 am PT
Review:  Gaming perfection? Almost. Over-rated trash? Only when Hell freezes over.
  
  This, my friends, is Grim Fandango, easily one of the best games of all time. You play as Manuel 
 Calavera, travel agent for the Department of Death. Yes you heard me right, DEATH. This game takes 
 place in the fabled Mexican Land of the Dead. It works like this: when you die, you arrive in the 
 Land of the Dead, and depending on how good you were in life, you travel for 4 years in this world 
 until you arrive at your final resting place, the Ninth Underworld. With Manny, it's a bit different. 
 For some reason (the game never explains it) , Manny has a debt to work off, and therefore, he's 
 stuck at the Department of Death, seeing countless other souls pass by him in the race to the Ninth 
 Underworld. At the same time, he's fallen in love with an angelic woman known as Mecche. As the 
 game continues, you begin to discover corruption in the Department of Death, travel across the 
 Land of the Dead, and confront evil a plenty.
  
  The story doesn't end there, but I don't want to spoil the excitement. It's a very deep and enthralling 
 game that doesn't let go until the very end, and even the you'll be fantasizing about the game 
 and intricately dissecting theoretical answers to unanswerable questions in the game.
  
  Gameplay is really the only place where this game can be faulted. Like every adventure game, it's 
 linear and rather difficult to replay. Besides that, the puzzles involved in the game challenge 
 the mind but never feel like "Hey! How was I ever supposed to know that!" As well, the controls 
 (especially without a gamepad) can start to get frustrating, but not nearly enough to keep you 
 away from the game. Basically, you navigate Manny by pressing forward, and changing his direction 
 with the directional buttons. Unfortunately, the angle that Manny has decided to turn at is somewhat 
 small. When navigating Manny, you pick up items (these ones are indicated when Manny turns his 
 head and looks at it) and logically use them with your surroundings to progress. Rather simple, 
 in theory.
  
  Graphics, especially for it's time, were simply awesome. The backgrounds are sometimes photorealistic 
 (this was back when backgrounds were pre-rendered, so it's not so spectacular today) and the artistic 
 work on them simply stuns the eyes. Petrified Forests, Suave 50's style casinos, and Drab Urban 
 Environments. Characters are wonderfully animated, and the models themselves are good.
  
  Sound is another area where this game shines. All the musical pieces were composed for this game, 
 and range from Mexican Band Music to Film Noir styles to Funky Rock. As well, all the dialogue 
 is voiced, and no, they didn't hire a bunch of stupid untalented actors to play these characters, 
 they actually took care and wrote the dialogue with a poetic mastery to it. Every character conveys 
 emotion and speaks with a fluidity that any real person would. It's just that they're dead skeletons, 
 so of course they don't look like real people.
  
  All these pieces add up to one absolutely amazing game, and one that should be in every gamer's 
 collection (unfortunately it didn't sell very well, and it's damn hard to find nowadays) . Also, 
 it's hard to replay this game (because it's so linear) , but nonetheless,
  no classic needs replayability as long as the story stays with us forever... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Penri_02
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2004 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Tim schafer, creater of Day of the Tentacle and Full throttle, has done an amezin job on this game, 
 its so beautifuly done you cant help but to play every second of the day. The characters are perfect, 
 the looks and gameplay are perfect THE HOLE GAME IS PERFECT. The story line is so amezinly done 
 you are truly sad at the end because you have finisht it. IT is truly an Epic tale of Crime and 
 Corruption in the Land of the dead, if ypou have not got this game i telling you, buy it, you will 
 not be dissapointed, get it, You will love this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Typhoon89
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2004 3:42 pm PT
Review:  The date is 15th of December 2004, Grim Fandango has recently passed its 6th Birthday. What an 
 amazing 6 years this has made for me! I can honestly say, hand on heart, that this is the best 
 game I have ever played.
  For it's time the graphics are jaw-droppingly unbelievable, in my opinion they are better than 
 games made in the 'naughties', I'd have to say they are on par with San Andreas at the moment, 
 and San An scores less than this game in my ratings.
  The gameplay is impecable, the learning curve is so simple and the challenges are challenging yet 
 doable at the same time. The humour is one of the greatest in any video game, forget about all 
 the immaturity in Grand Theft Auto, this is the real dry and witty humour that only Lucas Arts 
 could pull off. It's an absolute shame that they chose to follow Star Wars and not flawless (to 
 a certain extent) adventure games such as Grim Fandango, Sam & Max and Day Of The Tentacle (of 
 which I am currently playing) .
  The soundtrack is also brilliant, it's on my MusicMatch Jukebox now, the jazz meeting latin music 
 is great.
  The characters are unique, you won't find anyone like them in many other games... they're dead 
 for one. The environment is brilliant, despite there only being a set area which you can explore.
 
  The storyline is a little rough but believable, I have completed this game so many times I have 
 lost count, easily into double digits and I'm still not tired of it.
  
  Will Manny find and rescue Meche? You'll have to play for yourself to find out. 
  
  I'm ready 
 to take you now... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 3, 2004 11:50 pm PT
Review:  Grim Fandango is one of the last great graphic adventure games. It is a great game however and 
 deserves to be in everyone's collection.
  
  Grim Fandango stars Manny Calavera, a grim reaper who is not making quota. He can't seem to figure 
 out why almost none of his cases are making it to the Cloud 9 express to the afterlife. After a 
 tip, he goes off on a five year adventure to get the answers to what happened. Each year is separated 
 into its own chapter. Along the way you will meet interesting characters and come across some challenging 
 puzzles. 
  
  The graphics are pretty nice and have a great use of color. Using the Day of the Dead holiday from 
 Mexico as a theme is quite nice. It really adds to the whole game experience.
  
  The sound is good and the voice overs are perfect. No over acting here.
  
  The control scheme 
 is a bit off as you use a keyboard or joypad to control Manny, but you get use to it after about 
 ten to fifteen minutes. 
  
  This is a game that all gamers should go out and buy and play. You will not be disappointed by 
 this game. The only beef that I have is that it feels like it wraps up a bit to fast, but it is 
 a great game and unfortunately, there has never been a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilsharkhunter
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 11, 2004 9:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. I love the game, its characters, and the theme. A Lucas Arts classic, you need 
 to play this game if you already haven't.
  
  So you're this guy named Manny Calavera, and you're in the "Land of the Dead" (this is where people 
 go after they die, and they have to work to be able to go to the "Land of Eternal Sleep") Their 
 work load determines on how good or bad they were in their life. So anyway, you're this "Travel 
 Agent" working off your debts in TLOTD who has a terrible job and is being "schemed" by his boss. 
 You give people tickets (Car ride, plane flight, or train ride) to be able to go to the land of 
 eternal sleep. It turns out that there is this whole mystery on why you get the terrible clients, 
 and you go out and solve it. You spand the land searching for a client that has been mislead.
 
  
  Gameplay 9 - This game is great. The puzzles aren't TOO hard to figure out, and the controls work 
 pretty well. From start to finish, there will be new environments and characters so that you don't 
 feel like you're doing the "same ol' thing".
  
  Graphics 9 - Good graphics. They run well on any computer nowadays.
  
  Sound 9 - Great voice 
 acting and enjoyable music to fit the tone of this game.
  
  Value 8 - Pretty long game, but like most adventures, you won't find a reason to play this game 
 again. Not too long and not too short, and it ends "relatively" well.
  
  Tilt 10 - This game has an awesome story with even better characters that you will become attached 
 to, and start to miss after you have beaten the game. This game is very well worth playing, in 
 fact, you should play this.
  
  Pros - Characters are very believable, prehaps TOO believable. Story is dynamic and the game never 
 gets boring.
  
  Cons - Again, this game doesn't have great value. It's not short, but after you beat it, you probably 
 won't play it many times again.
  
  Instant Classic PC game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sorlok
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 7, 2004 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Grim Fandango is the story about our favorite Grim Reaper, Manny Calevera!
  He has been sent to the 8th layer of the underworld, and has to serve there for some time to redeem 
 his soul, even though he doesn't know what he did in his real life to deserve this.
  He soon realizes that theres something wrong with the Department of Death, where he is currently 
 working, and wants to do something about it.
  
  The first thing I want to address, is the controls, they are special to say the least, because 
 for some reason Lucas Arts decided that the tried and true form of pointing and clicking with you 
 mouse adventures simply werent good enough so they changed the control scheme to a keyboard only, 
 that has numerous problems, but overall works just fine. Now and then in the game, the controls 
 really do tick you off, because its practically impossible to do what your supposed to do.
  
  The graphics is special too, not only is it the first game in the long line of adventure games 
 thats 3D, but not fully, its only moving objects or objects that you pick up that are 3D, and 
 they stand out in the scenery.
  These objects arent especially well detailed, and neither are they of high pixel count, but they 
 look great none the less, because they look special, and just as the game is special, it works 
 great.
  
  The background graphics are static highly detailed sets, and they do a fantastic job of creating 
 feel, and along with the great background music, you truly fell like your walking around in the 
 Land of the Dead.
  
  Every character speaks, and the actors are all very talented, and they do there job well, theres 
 not one actor that talks like he just reads the script, but truly feel like they are the character 
 they play, our leading actor, Tony Plana does an exceptionally good job of making you feel the 
 50s theme.
  
  The puzzles of the game, unlike previous games by Lucas Arts, are obscure or downright weird, but 
 they all feel like they are real.
  Lets just say, you wont find a rubber chicken with a pulley in the middle anywhere in the game.
 
  
  When you complete this game, you wont find yourself trying to complete it immediately after, even 
 though there will be lots of moments youd want to see again, but its a game that a month or a 
 year after you completed it you find yourself playing it again.
  
  The feel, the music, the story, the design, the acting, and the puzzles that change in difficulty, 
 and are never boring, makes this game one of the absolute best adventure games on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamvego
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 8, 2004 2:26 pm PT
Review:  How excited was I to read a 4-page preview of Grim Fandango, a game from the makers of the Monkey 
 Island series? It looked so excellent and impressive, and I had high expectations for the game.
 
  
  My expectations were totally met, even though I was, at first, unfamiliar with the control system. 
 The game runs in a world of it's own, the world of the dead, with the main character, Manny, trying 
 to do his job, but getting pushed back by his cheating colleage.
  
  There are really well-rendered backdrops, atmospheric locations, and memorable characters to take 
 away from this game. They just don't make games like this anymore, which is a big shame. It would 
 be nice if LucasArts got back into this market, because they were the best at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azeira_10389
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 21, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  It has been a while since I finished this game, but it has stuck in my mind as one of the finest 
 adventure games I have ever had the joy of playing. It is a perfect package of incredible storytelling 
 (Tim Schafer at his best) , clever puzzles, amazing music (I have gotten the soundtrack and listen 
 to it regularly: it can definitely hold up even outside the game) , 3d characters that I actually 
 felt for (brought to life by impeccable voice acting) , and imaginative locations realized through 
 graphics that still look quite beautiful today, six years after the game's release.
  
  The story takes place across the span of four years, and even though the player only plays through 
 several important scenes within that time, one still gets the feeling of change, of the passage 
 of time and of emotional attachments (Rubacava was such a real place to me that when I was done 
 with it, I was loathe to leave) . The dramatic plot pretty much takes center stage, but the gameplay 
 (this IS a game, after all) is just as enjoyable and fits in seamlessly with the the storytelling. 
 In fact, I found it plenty entertaining just to click on every object and see what Manny can do 
 with it (well, maybe that's a bit overboard on my part, but the designers are very creative, and 
 the writing is sharp and often quotable) . Puzzles can be quite complex and challenging, but never 
 to the point where they get frustrating.
  
  Overall, a memorable experience, definitely a pinnacle of the genre. They just don't make any games 
 like this anymore. Gamespot, in a surprise move, even chose Grim Fandago as their PC Game of the 
 Year (which shocked many readers, I'm sure, since 1998 was also the year of Half-Life and Starcraft) . 
 Therefore it's sad how poor the sales were (that's why they will never be making a sequel) and 
 now to see the game selling for $10 in bargain bins without any show of acclaim. But the low price 
 is yet another reason why you must get Grim Fandango. It is indeed a must play! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
