-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ground Control II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/groundcontrol2oe/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 22, 2004
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.0, 46 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,152 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: VU Games
Developer: Massive Ent
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     Jun 23, 2004 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Ground Control II delivers a stunning presentation coupled with solid gameplay and a lengthy campaign. 
 

  Released four years ago, the original Ground Control was an excellent real-time strategy game set 
 in a sci-fi universe, though it never reached the popularity level of the big-name RTS games like 
 Starcraft or the Command &amp; Conquer series. Nevertheless, it made quite an impact in the genre 
 with its gorgeous 3D engine, which was both powerful and flexible enough to support large maps 
 along with the ability to zoom in to your units to get a look at the action up close. The sequel, 
 Ground Control II: Operation Exodus, keeps this signature element while delivering a stunning presentation 
 coupled with solid gameplay and a lengthy campaign.  

          Majestic battle scenes like this are par for the course in Ground Control II.     

 
  The game's story puts you in the role of Jacob Angelus, a captain in the Northern Star Alliance. 
 Your home planet, Morningstar Prime, is currently under siege by Imperial Terran forces led by 
 the ruthless Imperator Vlaana. As you make your way through the campaign, an alien race, known 
 as the Virons, will eventually get involved in both sides of the conflict. The game includes a 
 pair of linear, 12-mission campaigns where you'll control the NSA forces and then the Virons. Though 
 the storyline behooves you to play the campaigns in that order, you may choose to start on either 
 campaign at the outset of the game.  

  As mentioned before, the most striking aspect of Ground Control II is its beautiful graphics engine. 
 Maps are suitably large and vast with rolling terrain and thickets of lush forest. Bodies of water 
 shimmer and reflect sunlight -- images that take advantage of the advanced capabilities of the latest 
 graphics cards. The units themselves are extremely detailed -- they are fully articulated with moving 
 parts and they can be seen rocking back as their cannons fire. You can also see infantry carrying 
 miscellaneous pieces of equipment, such as the massive backpacks of ammo carried by NSA siege infantry. 
 And if you zoom in close enough to foot soldiers, you can actually hear them marching across hard 
 ground. While it is true that you lose a lot of this detail while you're zoomed out (which is more 
 ideal for actually controlling the game) , battles still seem suitably epic as you see opposing 
 sides light up the field with missiles and streams of tracer fire. Artillery is especially impressive, 
 like the shells that arc high overhead before crashing down.  

  The game's sound effects are also excellent: missiles whoosh toward their targets and artillery 
 fire rumbles as it impacts the ground. The NSA siege infantry's miniguns sound particularly fearsome 
 when they go into fully automatic mode, pouring out a fusillade of death. Ground Control II's soundtrack 
 is equal to its sound effects, offering pumping rock tunes that get you amped up for battle. You'll 
 also receive constant reports on the battlefield about various positions that are being attacked 
 and overrun, similar to what you would hear over the course of a match in Battlefield 1942. These 
 reports help keep the mood appropriately tense as you ride the razor's edge between victory and 
 defeat. About the only aspect bringing the game's audio down a bit would be the voice acting. There's 
 a lot of it, as characters interact extensively before, during, and after missions, but some may 
 find Captain Angelus' thick British accent a little cheesy or even farcical. His compatriot, Lieutenant 
 (or "leftenant" as Angelus calls her) LaCroix, also sports a seemingly forced French accent.  

 
  Ground Control II's gameplay style doesn't follow the mold of most RTS games. There's no base 
 building involved, so you don't have to worry about managing an economy or a tech tree. Reinforcements 
 are called in via dropship, and you must have control of at least one landing zone on the battlefield 
 to receive these extra troops. Over the course of a battle, you're slowly fed acquisition points 
 that you can use to purchase new troops or upgrade your dropship in various aspects, such as cargo 
 space, speed, fuel capacity, armor, and weapons. If you have a large standing army, the acquisition 
 points come in very slowly, and if your forces are few, they'll build up more quickly. You can 
 also earn more acquisition points by destroying enemy units in battle and by capturing and holding 
 special spots on the map called victory locations.  

  One of the more interesting strategic aspects of the game is the ability to have your dropship 
 stay on station at the landing zone to assist in defense against incoming forces. It's powerful 
 enough to turn the tide of an attack, so using your dropship in battle can have important strategic 
 consequences. The ship has a finite amount of fuel, however, so when it's out it will return to 
 its off-screen base automatically. The dropship is also vulnerable to fire, so if it's destroyed, 
 you'll be unable to call in reinforcements for a period of time until you get a new one.  

          Managing your dropship is a key strategic element in the game.     

  The environment 
 plays a big role in Ground Control II's tactics. Units on elevated ground get defensive bonuses. 
 Infantry can hole up in buildings such as guard towers and bunkers for a defensive boost as well; 
 the game even allows you to pick which side of the building the infantry will defend. Infantry 
 are also the only units that can go into forests, which is where they can hide out of line of sight 
 and also gain defensive bonuses. Special gun emplacements are also scattered around the maps. Some 
 of these, like the flamethrowers, are specialized for taking out infantry while others include 
 large cannons that are more suited for blowing up vehicles. You can use engineer units to repair 
 any damaged emplacements you find, and you can have any one of your infantry man the turret. These 
 emplacements, like bunkers and other buildings, cannot be fully destroyed, but concentrated fire 
 can kill any infantry inside.  

  Aside from environmental factors, the game models the armor thickness of your vehicles. Flanking 
 maneuvers, therefore, become a useful strategy, as you can typically do much more damage to a vehicle 
 from the side or behind. Your units also gain experience through combat, reflected in stripe and 
 star symbols that you can see above each unit when selected. Experienced units are more effective 
 than new ones, so it pays to keep your troops alive when possible. In skirmish and multiplayer 
 modes, you even have the option of calling in air strikes, which you pay for with acquisition points. 
     

  All of these nifty gameplay features wouldn't mean much if not for Ground Control II's lengthy 
 and varied campaigns. Although they're entirely linear, the mission design is fairly interesting. 
 In most cases, you'll be managing multiple fronts, trying to simultaneously lead attacks on Terran 
 strongholds while fending off attacks to your rear flanks. The game's artificial intelligence seems 
 smart enough to find any holes in your defense to sneak strike forces through and attack your more 
 lightly defended landing zones and victory locations. The result is a satisfyingly frenetic pace, 
 which should challenge most RTS veterans. You'll also be fighting alongside allied commanders in 
 many missions, including NSA comrades Lieutenant LaCroix, Major Grant, and later on, Viron allies. 
 These commanders are entirely self-reliant, and they are able to manage their own dropships and 
 reinforcements while attacking and capturing victory locations on their own.  

          Vehicles offer excellent detail when you zoom up close.     

  The designers at Massive 
 Entertainment mix up the gameplay well over the course of the campaigns. One mission is a stealth 
 exercise where you must hijack an enemy vehicle to sneak in and steal data from a Terran base. 
 Another mission will have you on the run from an overwhelming force of Terran pursuers as you try 
 to escort an important armored personnel carrier to an escape point. In order to keep from getting 
 overrun, the mission forces you to strategically drop off your limited troops at various choke 
 points in order to slow down the cadre of enemies on your tail. Another mission in the Viron campaign 
 has you navigating a maze of swamps to collect gas canisters as Terran harassers roam the same 
 swamps trying to destroy your objectives.  

  Most of the game's 24 missions take between 20 minutes to an hour, not counting any reloads. Unlike 
 the first Ground Control, you can save your progress in the middle of any mission in Ground Control 
 II, and considering the difficulty of some of the missions, you'll be glad you can. The campaign 
 should keep most players busy for quite a while, but once you're done with it you can still play 
 against up to seven computer or human opponents in skirmish mode using the game's multiplayer maps. 
 You can also play any of the single-player missions in cooperative mode with up to three players. 

  The NSA and the Virons are the only two playable factions in Ground Control II. The former represents 
 your typical humanoid science fiction army with an array of different infantry types, ground vehicles, 
 and aircraft. Each unit in the game has a secondary function, though, which contributes to the 
 strategy and variety. To give a couple of examples, NSA light infantry has a regular assault rifle 
 for their primary attack while their secondary mode lets them shoot antivehicle rockets from a 
 stationary position. The standard "liberator terradyne" is a fast-moving tank with a cannon for 
 taking out vehicles. Its secondary mode is a machine gun that's extremely effective against infantry. 

  The Virons are a race of aliens with biological "vehicles" called centruroids. Overall, Viron units 
 fill many of the same roles as those of the NSA and Terran, with artillery, antiaircraft, antivehicle, 
 and other specialists. What makes the Virons unique is their ability to meld. Two similar Viron 
 units can meld together into a different type of unit to fill a different role. That melded unit 
 can also unmeld to split apart again into its two component units. One example would be melding 
 two missile infantry Virons into a mortar infantry unit. Whereas the original units were effective 
 against aircraft and vehicles, the resulting unit is great at long-range attacks. The ability to 
 meld and unmeld gives the Viron army greater flexibility than the NSA.  

  The multiplayer aspect of Ground Control II uses a player matching service called MassGate. It 
 has basic functions, such as chat, a friends list, and a list of available games and servers to 
 join. There's also a ladder which will allow players to track their record and rank. Online games 
 feel pretty smooth for the most part, and the game is quite enjoyable even with only two races 
 from which to choose. Since there's no need to worry about an economy or resource gathering, matches 
 are usually wall-to-wall action. The only caveat is that the game ships with just 10 multiplayer 
 maps, but with the included map editor, hopefully Ground Control II's player community will be 
 able to flesh out the map list more over time.  

          You can call in fire support, like air strikes, during skirmish or multiplayer matches 
     

  There's a lot to like about Ground Control II, though the game isn't without a few relatively minor 
 shortcomings. The free-form camera will take some getting used to, particularly for players accustomed 
 to a fixed camera like in most RTS games (novice RTS gamers may find it entirely unwieldy) . There's 
 an option for a camera mode that fixes the view angle, but at some point, most players will find 
 that camera style too restrictive. It's also disappointing that the Terran race, which factors 
 into the campaigns, isn't actually playable, even in multiplayer. From the single-player campaign, 
 it's obvious that the Terrans have a number of interesting units, such as hovercraft that can cross 
 water and mechlike "striders" armed with missiles and cannons. Few RTS games today only offer you 
 a pair of playable races, but with each of the NSA and Viron units having secondary modes along 
 with the Virons' ability to meld, there should be enough variety here to keep most players satisfied 
 for a good while.  

  Overall, Ground Control II comes together as a great game, offering excellent graphics, a lengthy 
 and varied single-player campaign, and multiplayer action that is fun and direct. It's clearly 
 one of the best real-time strategy games so far this year.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (27 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Aruna_lk
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 5:04 pm PT
Review:  I always wanted to write a review for this game since early 2006 and finally
  i got the chance. i love this game Bcoz this game has 3 unique features
  that isnt there in 
 any other game.
  
  1. Awesome graphics &amp; specially the 3D environment
  (weather effects &amp; awesome hi quality sky) specially in infantry, if u zoom
  closer you can 
 see their breathing &amp; also their eyes.
  2. In team play, players can give their units to their team mates so that you
  can build a NSA-Viron 
 mix Army so that you can coordinate better tactics.
  3. After log into Massgate you will get the chance to download 30+ maps to
  play with.
  
 
  Single player campaign is also good but for online play this is an AWESOME game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 13, 2007 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Ok, one reason it got me excited to play was the poster girl, who is supposed to be the resident 
 b*tch in the game. Well I thought she was going to be part of the cinematics treat during the game, 
 but disappointingly, the story isn't much cooked up for you to care, and there is little visual 
 story modes unlike the classic C&amp; Cs. And guess what, that poster girl is almost non-existent 
 except for some vague references by name only.
  
  Although there are 3 houses in the single-player campaign, you only get to play 2 of them, the 
 good guys and the alien race. You can't play the bad guys (Imperators, I think, whom the said poster 
 lady belongs to) and I doubt you can play them too even in multiplayer. Some of the missions are 
 tightly paced, some are draggy, but overall challenging enough with quite balanced and attractive 
 units between the different factions.
  
  The battles are nice to watch with effortless zoom ins and outs, and the technical aspect do them 
 justice too with nice particle effects and bombastic sounds. Just that the story ain't sufficiently 
 satisfying enough to render the whole job well done.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamemaster236
Rating: 7.6
Date: Feb 17, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  The game is very good visually, but other then that I would say it lacks compared to other strategy 
 games. I really dislike the money system in it that, cuts down the number of troops you can have. 
 I picked up this game though for four bucks, so I am obviously pleased by it. You just have to 
 love sierra, at least I do. I suggest if you can pick this game up for a low price do it, because 
 it is worth the money. I think how it shows the impact of your ammunition on the emeny is what 
 really sets this game apart from the herd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeshoe1121
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 27, 2006 7:20 pm PT
Review:  I recently picked this game up, from reccomendation from a friend, and im shocked at the quality 
 of the game. I expect good games from VU and this is no exception. Delivering quality graphics 
 (Even though it is a dated game) and fun gameplay, both single and multiplayer, it is a game that 
 will keep you playing for a while.
  
  The game tells the story of the North Star Alliance (NSA) and their fight to defend their homeworld, 
 Morningstar Prime, against the massive Terran Empire, and its allies, the Viron Clans. Featuring 
 characters with a developed background and story, the characters draw the player into the story 
 and make it that much more enjoyable. The voice acting of the characters though, is something that 
 may have to be adjusted. The heavy european accents of the characters is constantly there and it 
 does get annoying after a while. But this is a minor issue compared the the rest of the game.
 
  
  Instead of creating a base and building up slowly, harvesting resources and upgrading units for 
 the endgame battle, this game forces an aggressive strategey. Like the recent Dawn of War series 
 and Company of Heroes, it forces you to go out and capture strategic points and Landing Zones (LZ's) . 
 These each serve a different purpose. Strategic points are located at (suprise, suprise!) Strategic 
 locations, making them defendable. They are the games primary source of resources. By controlling 
 more points, more resources are allocated to the player at a faster rate. Some of these strategic 
 points have benefits, such as repair stations, turrets, and even radars. LZ's are a larger form 
 of Strategic points. These locations serve as drop zones for the players Dropships, large flying 
 craft which bring in the players units for battle. These dropships can be upgraded and can even 
 be ordered to stay on the field of battle, as they are strong and have large amounts of firepower. 
 The objective of the battles is often to annihalate the enemy, or capture all strategic points, 
 or even conquer all landing zones.
  
  The use of drop in units makes the game that much more interesting. Instead of building bases and 
 units, players can simply call in large numbers of units, and deploy them at will. To limit the 
 number of units, the game denotes less and less resources to you as ur total number of units increases. 
 However, if you lose your units, then the resources jump back to normal.
  
  The graphics of the game are simply amazing, and there is a lot of detail put into each unit. this 
 is suprising for a dated game and will stand up to many of today's best games. Multiplayer is exciting 
 with this game as well, although in the multiplayer, only 2 races (the NSA and Viron) are featured, 
 which is a dissapointment for Terran fans. Stil, the game offers some detailed maps (although few 
 in number) and other features, such as drop in games, which allows players to join a game in progress.
 
  
  Ground Control II is a solid game and i reccomend it to any RTS fan out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fxdm
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 23, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  I just picked this game up for five dollars several days ago and man was I surprised. After the 
 installation (which took about 10 seconds) , I immediately got started on the campaign after listening 
 to the menu's background music, which is really good by the way, and was started on probably the 
 best, most inexpensive RTS I've played in a while. For five bucks you get the usual campaign, skirmish, 
 and multiplayer modes that are accustomed to all RTS games. However, what sets this one apart is 
 its unique gameplay and camera. The camera in Ground Control II is free moving, and you can look 
 up, down, zoom in, zoom out, or even follow behind your troops as they storm and enemy bunker. 
 Impressive camera options in an RTS like this one are a must, and make up for any other graphical 
 issues you may come across. Unlike many other RTS games, you cannot build buildings in Ground Control 
 II, but that really doesn't matter when you can call down all manner of troops in your armed dropships. 
 Your men can hide-out in buildings, set up defensive turrets and defend several of your drop zones, 
 or flank around an enemy with infantry concealed inside a forest. There are tons of different strategical 
 dicisions to make in Ground Control II, and from the casual gamer's eye, this game may appear not 
 well done. But when you get started playing the game and actually get hooked on it, theres no stopping 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13091988
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 18, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Well, well, well ground control 2 is one of my personal favourites this game has ignored all the 
 other strategy games with there bases, workers, etc. this has just made it easier to play and concerntrates 
 on what the job is in hand to beat the living daylights out of the enemy, the only problem i have 
 with this game is the limit of units, i think that this should be increased to make it a bit more 
 exciting, also the campaign missions are also a good part of the game, this game is well worth 
 buying, don't use a review to decide if you liek it buy it and get stuck in !!! you'll love it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: herodotus2006
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 2, 2006 6:37 pm PT
Review:  "Ground Control" was, & still is, a great action/strategy game, not quite fitting into the RTS 
 realm as it spurns resource gathering ( a staple, yet quite often distracting element of the traditional 
 RTS) . "Dune" & "Emperor: Battle For Dune" invented the RTS and made it easier with only one resource 
 to garner. "Imperial Glory" gave a more realistic flavour to this by having the player researching 
 & building structures that produced resources. The "Age of Empire" series made it more of a chore, 
 that unless you love economics, distracted a great deal from what the RTS is all about - blasting 
 your opponent into the middle of last week.
  "GC", as I said, changed that & challenged reviewers to pidgeon-hole it, which they couldn't, hence 
 the term Action/Strategy. "GC II" has introduced a form of resource gathering by having the player 
 captuer and hold landing zones and resource zones, only then being able to request more troops 
 or upgrades. "GC II" has more in common with "Dawn of War" than reviewers realize. Sierra has taken 
 on THQ, & to a large degree, produced a more adullt gaming experience than "DOW". I'm not bashing 
 "DOW". I own it and its' Expansion "Winter Assault" and cherish them both. "GC II" provides a more 
 abstract approach to missions however. Thinking about building a big assault force to crush the 
 enemy? Think again. The enemy AI is ruthless and unforgiving of newbies to the RTS game. And just 
 when you think you have the enemy worked out, they throw in an alien race that is only too happy 
 to hand your tactics back to you, along with your head, in your combat helmet. Until they change 
 sides, or a faction of them do.
  I compare "GCII" to "DOW" because they have more in common than any other "rts" on the market. 
 "Age of Empires III" adds graphical upgrades, and nothing else. Brian Reynolds was quoted as saying 
 his developers are jaded with the "AoE" series and want to move on. Well, it shows. So this series 
 doesn't come into the arena. Neither does "Civ IV", which really is a Strategy game, not a true 
 RTS fair. "Battle for Middle Earth" was excellent (still is) . Fantastic presentation, and campaigns 
 that kept you playing just that bit longer after 3 am. The immersion, helped enormously by the 
 music, voice acting, and translation from the movies, kept us coming back for more. "BFME II", 
 however, is a huge step backward. It should have been an Expansion Pack at best. It broke what 
 wasn't broken, and missed an opportunity to really explode the Middle Earth universe. In "BFME 
 II" the wind doesn't blow, it sucks (just as the game does) .
  So "GC II" and "DoW" sit facing each other. The latter is a great Sci-Fi obliteration romp with 
 some strategy thrown in (nothing to burn your brain out over though) , while "GC II", as I said 
 presents a more mature, thinking man's strategy game.
  
  GRAPHICS: Excellent. The particle effects are dazzling, especially when that artillery lets fly. 
 The water refelcts everything, including the beautifully rendered star-filled sky. Best water graphics 
 in a RTS yet. Download the patch (1.008 I think) as it adds coastal/beach wave effects amongst 
 other thiings.
  
  SOUND: Love that heavy pounding of boots as troops charge forward, changing to a 'clanging' echo 
 as they cross metal bridges. Weapon effects are serviceable, though nothing outstanding. The voice 
 acting is better than usual (and better than "Dow: WA") . It also follows on from the original story 
 lines of "GC" and its' expansion pack "Dark Conspiracy". Something that "Winter Assault" failed 
 to do with "DoW"".
  
  OVERALL: It is now available on Budget re-release. You NEED to get it if you are into this genre. 
 Just don't think tank-rush tactics or you will be handed your skull in your helmet. 
  
  COMPARISONS: Why compare with "DoW". In skirmish/multiplayer mode it becomes exceedingly obvious. 
 Control stategic locations and upgrade as soon as you can (only in the quiter moments of "GCII", 
 though) .
  
  COMMENTS: Sierra has been a dependable company for years. When they had their DYNAMIX group who 
 specialized in sims/games ("Aces of the Pacific", "Aces Over Europe", "Aces of the Deep") they 
 ruled the gamemarket, sharing only with MICROPROSE for quality. Unfortunately, sims appeal to a 
 relatively small category (I remember one FPS ffan coommmenting: "Flight sims? What's so great 
 about a game about skies, and sometimes land?") . So Dynamix folded and Microprose was bought out 
 by ATARI (the hand of death to serious games) .
  Buy it, enjoy it, and look forward, as I do to the next installment. I would love to see a marriage 
 between this and the "Homeworld" series. That would give "Star Wars Empire at War" a good run for 
 its' money. ("EAW" doesn't know what it wants to be anyway. Its' more like "CIV IV" with some RTS 
 battles tagged on. But, it is Star Wars so who cares) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: techkill
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 23, 2006 5:52 am PT
Review:  The best thing about this game is just playing skirmish with immense amounts of money!
  buying a squadron of helis just to go waste an enemy that has been annoying you. the beauty of 
 the game is when an attack goes exactly as you plan it, when you order your artilery to start pounding 
 the dropp zones of the enemy and you land a succesfull airstrike in the middle of the enemys force. 
 then you send your tanks into to finish of the rest!
  :D I love going close i to the battlefeild as the lasser bullets fly: P
  
  this game is trully 
 love able for the fans of strategy and of course of the series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionBob
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 23, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  So, this how the story goes im walking around and I decide to walk into a biglots.
  
  Nothing real interesting at all but you never know what you may find.
  
  Im walking out and 
 right out of the corner of my eye I see a game marked at 3.99.
  
  Well for sure this game is bound to be bad I mean they are pretty much giving it away.
  
  I 
 ended up buying it and I put it in later and to my great surprise this game was actually better 
 then expected alot actually.
  
  I played with the single player for awhile realised it had a co-op feature so I tried that out 
 with a friend, from what've read since purchasing this title im not the only one to get this game 
 for ten or less dollars.
  
  Gameplay- Its got its moments I would've honestly enjoyed more units but it does have a fair share 
 of strategy such as putting units in different building etc.
  However there are moments where it just feels like swarms of units smashing together.
  
  Graphics- 
 Very well done never an eye sore I enjoyed zooming up right close to the units to see the action 
 and great detail put into everything.
  
  Sound- It serves its purpose however I felt as if the voice acting was a bit cheesy, also how did 
 soldiers from outer space get accents?
  
  Value- Ok, this game packs alot of content in one game for as little as you can get it for.
  
 
  Singleplayer, co-op, multiplayer its got alot to keep you happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidtheripper
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  My review comes from playing lots of RTS's and I admit i am picky when it does come to sitting 
 down to play a good hours worth of any game.
  
  GamePlay: first off i am a big fan of remapping keys. To me i get to set the shortcuts where i 
 want them (thx Massive) and i get to play for comfortable without having to remember the shortcuts 
 which the developer has setup.
  With that, controlling your members is easy, u can double click a character type and the lot will 
 be selected on screen, click and drag thier face of direction, and having two differnt stances 
 allows more tactical thinking than just when they come off the dropship.
  
  Graphics: AWESOME!! so beautiful from the clouds to the planets in the sky, even when artillery 
 is dropping from the sky pounding your tanks, its so cool to watch... From footprints, tiretracks, 
 treadmarks even particle effects from machine gun shrapnel, the smallest detail is noticed, even 
 more so when you pan your camera at any angle and even zoom in!! 
  
  Sound: given that i got 5.1 logitech speakers, the sound quality you can get from this is so immersive 
 and real. It is compareable IMO to that of the CoD games in sound. Especially when you zoom in 
 close to the action. NOTE: the further away you are from the action the sounds distance themselves... From 
 sharp ricochets to deep booming explosions candy for the ears!
  
  Value: this is where i had to lower the score abit for me. Although doing the missions is fun and 
 glorious! I did find that the random maps or skirmishes to be rather repetiive, basically you choose 
 how many enemies are gonna be in game with you and then its basically a deathmatch. Kill all your 
 enemies and you win. Gets kinda repetitive.
  
  To me if like the WH40K: DoW series of gaming, youll love this!!
  If you liked the Empire Earth 
 or Age series' this will be a change for you, but a good one!! ~ ripper 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyzilla
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 12, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay of this game is basically the same as Ground Control I, except a little bit more complicated. 
 I wasn't really impressed with this game as i thought i would . The graphics changed a lot from 
 number 1, but the way the game plays makes it hard to control your troops/army. The game is pretty 
 hard to get used to, since it uses the enviroment as an advantage for you. 
  
  I havent' played this game much because of boredom. The first few missions made me fall asleep, 
 they didnt keep you hooked onto the game. When playing, there is no real mission to the game. I 
 played this game probaly only 3-4 times now, and now it's just an icon on my desktop. hahaha. So 
 don't waste your money on this game, unless it gets really cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevinprochazka
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2006 1:25 am PT
Review:  Do not just throw away this game, because you can't grasp the commanding skills. This game takes 
 a while to get used to. The interface is very advanced for a RTS and sometimes you wish you could 
 slow it down or stop it. The game tends to spin out of control after a while and it is hard to 
 catch up. However once in the heat and 'into' the game you will find that the complicated interface 
 just adds to the effect.
  
  Storyline: The storyline is very good in my opinion, shows that the commander (you play the commander) 
 has emotions rather than just a full HARD macho. There are of course other character, like an old 
 granpa without an eye that tends to underestimate the enemy most of time. His 'let's just go kill 
 everyone easily' approach tends to get him in a lot of trouble most of the time. IN one of the 
 mission i had to 'donate' some of my troops to keep him up and going.
  
  AI: The AI of the enemy is very good however sometimes i do think that the AI of your allies is 
 a bit undeveloped. The enemy is good at bringing reinforcements once you get too close with a larger 
 force and an attack on a LZ (landing zone) gets harder than you expected. The enemy suddenly bringing 
 in STRONG units can become a bit of an annoyance when you are attacking with a undersized army.
 
  
  Conversations of AI characters: Let's face it some games just HAVE to bring swear words into the 
 game. Most of the game these feel out of place as they're said at the wrong time.
  
  Tactictal elements of the game: THIS game s not for anyone used to building 'uber' bases and 'uber' 
 units. Here every unit has a use. Mortars and other artillery units support your attacking units. 
 Here artillery has a higher use than in the usual RTS. Transport can provide smoke screens to cover 
 your advancing infantry. The smoke screens work here. Although you have to provide cover for your 
 transport as they are a 'bit' brittle. Tanks are here for that. Once the infantry cleares the enemies 
 AA (anti-aircraft) guns you move in with air units to destroy enemy defensive and artillery possitions. 
 Than it's time for the cleansing part of the missions. The usual hunt the rabbits time has come.
 
  
  The importance of LZs and Dropships: In most games if you lose a drop ships you get a new one. 
 Not here, you loose it, you're doomed. The drop ship is the most important unit in the whole game. 
 Brings reinforcements, bombards any units it's passing in its flight. However you require an LZ (landing 
 zone) . These are not a rare find, but it is easy to loose them. Guard them well. No LZ = no reinforcements. 
 
  
  ALL in all the game is a very innovative piece and is not the usual brainless RTS where you just 
 build 'uber' strategies. This game brings multi-front battles, the needs for fast thinking, and 
 the need for allies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gawk24
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 3, 2005 1:59 pm PT
Review:  This is my favorite RTS games of all time. You do not have to go gathering resources (thats what 
 civilians are for anyway) Instead you gain resources by funding that goes automatically as you 
 play. The game features real life physics, yeah nothing new, like a person in a forest or on a 
 hill has an advantage over the units are not. I love the gameplay, but the story feels weak and 
 sometimes cheesy. I would definitely recommend this game. Another good reason I like this game 
 is because it was one in four games in a bundle I bought at Sams. The bundle was only twenty bucks! 
 Get out there and check your bargain bins this is the best, cheap game you will find. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ac190075
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 17, 2005 10:23 pm PT
Review:  This is simply amazing. I didn't play the prequel but I have to say that the idea of having no 
 building going on and just relying on tactics and strategy with regards to a small and lean fighting 
 force is a breath of fresh air. Multiplayer is very cool too and if you choose to incorporate a 
 computer player the AI is pretty good. Its a really dynamic battle where you could lose a landing 
 zone multiple times during the play while trying to outmaneuver the enemy. The different factions 
 seem to have balanced units in terms of strengths. It would be nice to see a sequel to this game 
 although Im not sure how this could be outdone. The one downside to the game is that when you 
 are viewing an area with terrains varying to a great extent in altitude (like a crevasse or a bridge 
 with water way down below it) the camera zooms in and out in a fickle manner. All round this is 
 a game worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 778899445566
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 12, 2005 4:31 am PT
Review:  This Game is Very Good, She Also Comes With XEd, She Have a Very Nice Gameplay, Great Graphics, 
 Great Campaigns, Very Good Secondary Mode For All Units, Very Good Promotion Rate, Very Much Units, 
 As Infector Clanguards, Raptor Sniper, Heavy Infantry, Assault Clanguards, Assault Headlynes, You 
 Must Choose One of Two Teams, The Virons or the Northern Star Alliance, Have Also The Terran Empire, 
 But She Appears Just In The Campaigns, Have a Good Multiplayer Sistem (In The Game Are Called of 
 Massgate) , You Play As Capitain Jacob Angelus Whanna Know More Abou Him? O. K So!
  
  NSA RESTRICTED FILES: Capitain Jacob Angelus
  Age: 27
  Height: 187 cm
  Weight: 90 kg
  Birth 
 Date: 045-2714
  Basic Training: Enlisted NSA Army: 025-2731 NSA Fort Ike, Morningstar Prime
  Advanced Training: 
 NSA Officer Acadamy, Morningstar Prime
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acepace
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 5, 2005 10:56 am PT
Review:  I'll start off with saying this game rocks. 
  The storyline isn't the most innovative thing, its predecessor (GC1) had a much better one, but 
 it draws you in and makes you feel for the main character, however, it does lack in part, because 
 ingame, not alot changes and its totally linear, but don't let that stop you.
  
  
  Graphics: This is what makes this game memorable, the game play rocks (I'll get to that in a second) , 
 but watching a firefight evolve, tanks shooting, artillary hitting, rockets flying and there, that 
 flank attack arrives, opening a hail of fire. This game is more then just fun, its beautiful.
 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay, you can read the actual mechanics in the GS review, but I'll add my own 
 thoughts, in most RTSes, when rushing to the final engagment of a mission, you want ALL your troops, 
 in one big mass, here, its all about approach, tactics, artillary destroying the enemy before you 
 even see him, its a game that makes you think before you just buy the largest tank, its a game 
 that forces you to consider 'low tech' units like Marines before dropping all the AP on artillary.
 
  
  Sound: Not the highlight of the game, but still good, hearing tanks fire, artillary hit, enemy 
 exploding, all solid.
  
  Replayability: The campaign itself is linear, so you won't be replaying that, but you probebly 
 will use the skirmish mode for a while, its great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwilson
Rating: 4.8
Date: Dec 18, 2004 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Lots of technical issues. Very buggy! It must have been rushed through Beta Testing because it 
 seems they are using customers as Beta Testers. Problems listed on the GC2 Tech Support formum 
 are not addressed (at least, not in a timely manner) . They don't seem to have a clue as to how 
 to resolve a majority of the problems.
  
  As I said the problems are numerious. If they just had one or two major issues I would have kept 
 the game a waited for the problem (s) to be resolved.
  
  It's a shame. This could have been a great game. 
  
  Dan W.
  Atlanta, GA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: underdark944
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 21, 2004 8:23 pm PT
Review:  The gameplay centers around the use of dropships. You will not build any buildings nor developping 
 technologies to enhance them. You will start with a group units and you'll battle to gain control 
 of victory points and landing zones which give acquisition points which can be used to call down 
 dropships fulled of varied units. The selection of units is very good too. All units have a secondary 
 mode which adds lot of depth to the gameplay. A light-infantry can shoot his gun while moving in 
 the first but when he turns to the second mode, he will stop moving and will fire a rocket-launcher. 
 And I tell you some combinaison add lots of depth to your armies. You must make sure you've got 
 a very equilibrated group of units. You can also update your dropship in a lot of zones, using 
 acquisition points.
  
  The dropship must be use very well if you wanna win your match. You can use as a powerful unit 
 to regain control of a certain point of the map. I was really tired of all strategy games like 
 Age of Mythology where we had to take ressources so I was of course very happy when I tried the 
 demo cause this game was like I ever wanted. I tell you if you are tired of this kind of games 
 ( AoM, RoN ) this is your best choice. I've had loads of fun with this one.
  
  You've also got two different races, The NSA and the Virons, but I tell they're very similar. They've 
 got different units, but they all have links together. The only real difference is the fact that 
 Virons can meld units together to create a much more powerful one. However, even if it's original, 
 it's not really useful and I never really used it much. It's bad we can't play as the Terrans.
 
  
  The game features two very well orchestrated campaigns. One is following the NSA ( the humans ) 
 and the other, the Virons. The story is very good for a sci-fi one, with a couple of twists even 
 if some are predictable. The objectives you'll receive are pretty much standard likego there 
 and eliminate all Terrans ", protect the base for 30 minetc.. There's 24 missions in all two 
 campaigns and missions lasts something like 30 min each.
  
  The graphics are really outstanding for a strategy game. Especially the water refractions. The 
 framerates aren't really outstanding though. The musics are really good and provide some much needed 
 ambiance. The voice-acting can feel bizarre for some persons but it does it's job.
  
  The multiplayer is pretty standard fare and is fun. You can do skirmishes against the computers 
 and use the xED editor to build you're own maps.
  
  HIGHS
  -----------  Good graphics
  -----------  Two solid campaigns
  -----------  Excellent dropship system
  LOWS
  ----------- 
  Horrible default camera
  -----------  Bad framerates 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rabid_Possum
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 26, 2004 1:11 am PT
Review:  A great rts game. The graphics are outstanding, especially the water, which reflects whatever's 
 over it and makes it look frightingly real. If you zoom up on the characters, you can actually 
 see their faces, the bumps on thier pants... everything. Gameplay is good, with a great interface 
 and easy to use buttons. The only problem is that the free-roaming camera can be a bit difficult 
 to master at first. The sound is average, but the machinegun fire sounds awesome, as does the viron 
 tank's guns. Value is good, with a lengthly campaign and a very good skirmish mode. Not very many 
 people online, however... This is an overall good game and whoever enjoys rts's should pick this 
 one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiddlecub
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 24, 2004 12:51 am PT
Review:  Massive Entertainment's 2000 strategy game Ground Control was an impressive but problematic title, 
 featuring satisfying gameplay but a myriad of control issues, AI annoyances, and other tiny frustrations 
 that often got in the way of its nail-biting battles. In a dazzling display of design efficiency, 
 all of the frustrating elements of the original, such as unusual unit selection and friendly fire, 
 have been removed from the sequel - while the high production values and satisfying tactical combat 
 are still intact. While the new game does possess some of its own quirks, the result is a fast 
 and furious good time, and Ground Control II is the best strategy game so far this year.
  
  Ground Control II's story is standard sci-fi fare. Imperator Vlaana of the Terran Empire has attacked 
 the capital planet of the Northern Star Alliance, Morningstar Prime. The player assumes the role 
 of Captain Jacob Angelus, the young leader of the planet's defense. Unsurprisingly, it turns out 
 that Vlaana is after more than just Morningstar, and the NSA must enlist the help of the mysterious 
 Viron race to defeat the Terran forces. The story is told through beautiful cutscenes between missions, 
 and mid-mission scenes within the game engine. While there is nothing particularly special about 
 the story, or the way in which it is told, it does provide the necessary backdrop for GCII's frantic 
 gameplay. The story missions themselves are varied: rather than asking you to simply attack a building 
 or win a battle, you will have to pick up barrels of gas and return them to base, or place sensors 
 in specific locations. 
  
  The single-player game lets you play the campaigns of the NSA and the Virons, on any of three levels 
 of difficulty. You can play them in either order, although it is best to play as the NSA first 
 to preserve the story. NSA units include standard assault infantry, tanks (terradynes) , helicopters 
 (helidynes) , and combat engineers, which heal wounded units. Viron units are less familiar but 
 function in similar roles. The Terrans are your primary enemy in the campaign, and they feature 
 some pretty nifty units as well. Alas, you will never be able to play as a Terran, since the Virons 
 and the NSA are the only playable factions. There are also support attacks available, such as the 
 NSA air strike or the Viron spore cloud, and all units include a secondary mode. For example, 
 NSA assault infantry use a rifle in primary mode, but a missile launcher in secondary mode, which 
 is effective against vehicles. Unfortunately, you can't really tell from the interface what the 
 secondary mode actually does. It's too bad that the tooltip for the secondary weapons does not 
 give any indication. 
  
  There is no resource gathering in Ground Control II - and there aren't any tech trees. In fact, 
 you do not even have a traditional base for unit production. Instead, you possess a single dropship, 
 from which you order new units. You can only have one dropship landing zone at a time, although 
 that landing zone can be moved to another location when available. You buy units with acquisition 
 points, which you earn with victories in battle and the capture of victory locations. Thus, success 
 in combat is literally its own reward, as it's the main way in which you earn the ability to produce 
 more units. This means that strategic combat is your singular focus, and knowing your units and 
 the environment are important factors. In fact, using the terrain successfully is a key way to 
 triumph. Not only will your surroundings affect your units' line of sight, but using higher ground 
 is key, as is utilizing the cover of buildings, rainy weather or dense forests. Unfortunately, 
 the reliance on combat strategy, and the need to capture victory locations as quickly as possible, 
 means that rushing is the most effective tactic. Sending your units into battle as quickly as possible 
 is not just the easiest way of winning a skirmish  it is virtually the only way, particularly 
 since the computer AI is quite aggressive. Thankfully, the AI of your own units is also top-notch, 
 and they will battle the units they are most likely to defeat when you are not there to give direct 
 orders. Issuing move orders does not keep your units from fighting: in a long-overdue feature, 
 they will fire at enemies automatically as they move to the ordered location. 
  
  While some may miss the strategic layers of resource collection and technology trees, there are 
 original additions to the combat-oriented gameplay that should keep veterans satisfied. While at 
 first we worried that battles could become quickly one-sided, it's notable that as you create more 
 and more units  and capture more and more victory locations  you receive acquisition points at 
 a slower pace, helping to ensure that a slight advantage doesn't have to turn into a runaway victory. 
 The dropship itself is a major component, and upgrades can be made to its cargo space, armor, firepower, 
 and more. It is not just a vehicle for delivering reinforcements, but is also a powerful unit on 
 its own, and can be called to your landing zone to assist in battle, although it will only stay 
 as long as it has fuel; when it runs out, it will return to base. It is destructible, however, 
 and should you lose your dropship, you will be unable to call for further units. Another significant 
 addition that keeps Ground Control II feeling fresh is that of Viron unit melding. While units 
 cannot be upgraded, per se, two Viron units can be melded to create a more powerful single unit. 
 For example, Engineer Centruoids can be melded to create a Mortar Centruoid, which fires a seed 
 pod into the air from which sharp spikes rain onto your enemies. 
  
  Multiplayer options are familiar, and you can play with up to 7 others in skirmish games on Massgate, 
 Ground Control II's multiplayer portal. You can play ladder matches that rank you within a league, 
 such as with Blizzard's Battle. Net, or refreshingly, you can join up to two other players in cooperative 
 games, which allow you and your friends to tackle the single-player missions together. Both types 
 of game are available via LAN, and skirmish games can be played against AI opponents. Currently, 
 there are 10 maps available for skirmishes, and GCII also ships with its own map editor, XEd. 
 
  
  Controls are mostly fluid, and the fully 3D engine gives the camera a great deal of flexibility. 
 Skirmishes can be controlled from far overhead, or you can zoom in to a single unit to experience 
 the action from the midst of battle. You have two main types of camera control: Standard RTS controls, 
 in which moving the cursor to the sides of the screen scrolls the map; and the original Ground 
 Control's free camera, in which moving the cursor to the edges of the screen will rotate the 
 camera, and the arrow keys are utilized for map scrolling. We preferred the standard RTS camera 
 to the recommended free camera, as it is more familiar to genre fans. The camera does feature 
 some annoying behavior, however: should you scroll across the map to a ravine or canyon, it swoops 
 down uncontrollably, making for some frantic camera positioning when you would rather be issuing 
 orders to your units. Also, double-pressing a group shortcut key, which moves the camera directly 
 to that group, zooms in to a close angle automatically, regardless of where the camera was positioned 
 previously. The interface itself is unobtrusive and familiar to any RTS player. As with many other 
 strategy games, Ground Control II will only let you select a certain number of units at a time, 
 and groupings are limited to that same number. However, a single kind of unit within that group 
 is easily selected by clicking one of that type in the selection bar of the interface. Inexplicably, 
 while the health of your units is displayed for those selected in the status bar of the interface, 
 it is not viewable on the battlefield unless you press the alt key, meaning the status of your 
 units, or that of your enemies, is not immediately clear while in the thick of combat. This is 
 a real detractor, considering both races require management of repair units. 
  
  We did not encounter many obvious bugs or stability issues. It is worth noting, however, that Massive 
 released a mandatory patch necessary for multiplay while we were evaluating Ground Control II that 
 overwrites all progress and saved games in the single-player campaign. The game's auto-updater 
 does not provide patch notes before installing, and it was necessary for us to review the patch 
 notes afterwards. While the notes outline a variety of improvements and small bug fixes, the fact 
 that campaign progress is rendered obsolete is nowhere to be found. We urge players and potential 
 buyers to exercise caution before patching, or attempting to connect to Massgate. 
  
  Ground Control II looks absolutely incredible. Not since Homeworld 2 has an RTS featured such detail 
 in its unit models, animations, and environments. The units themselves are attractive from every 
 angle, at any distance, and their animations are fluid and realistic. NSA Siege Soldiers wear detailed 
 metallic exoskeletons, melded Viron units produce impressive pods from which burst forth their 
 spawned creations, and Terran mechs strut about confidently. Even when zoomed in, you will notice 
 that vehicles are meticulously crafted and original, and their cannons and turrets rotate and recoil 
 realistically. The maps themselves are brimming with structures and foliage, and birds will occasionally 
 fly overhead, adding to the organic feel of the environments. The sky itself is beautiful to look 
 at, with starry twilights, murky rainstorms, and glowing planetary rings. The water deserves special 
 attention, as it reflects almost everything. It ripples and flows as units move through it, and 
 reflections are as detailed as the actual objects, making these planets seem as vital and natural 
 as our own. Cutscenes are cinematic and exciting to watch, although facial animations are not as 
 high in quality as other recent efforts. In a game this beautiful and richly detailed, however, 
 a small quibble like this is barely worth mentioning. Amazingly, Ground Control II performs smoothly 
 and without hiccups, even at higher settings. 
  
  Sound effects are impressive too, and when zoomed into individual units, you can hear the noises 
 of their footsteps and weapons. The game music features cinematic orchestrations and appropriately 
 noisy rock tracks, although it sometimes plays during the in-engine story exposition, making it 
 difficult to hear the characters speak. Voice acting is strong, although you may find yourself 
 tiring of Angelus's affected British accent, and the limited reactions of your units as you order 
 them about. The Viron voice-overs are also annoyingly difficult to understand, which made us thankful 
 for the subtitles. We also wonder why it was necessary for Massive to feature the occasional use 
 of profanity; rather than add to the game's immersion, it seems forced and out of place, even coming 
 from the grizzled general that uses it most often.
  
  Ground Control II delivers a solid and fulfilling tactical experience. While veterans may long 
 for the missing tech trees and unit upgrades, and the slower pace that resource management provides, 
 most players will find GCII's pure reliance on combat strategy to be a breath of fresh air  albeit 
 a tad too dependent on rush tactics. While it is challenging, new strategists will be well-served 
 by the detailed tutorials and exciting gameplay. These features, combined with breathtaking visuals 
 and strong attention to detail, add up to make Ground Control II a great strategy title, worthy 
 of any pc gamer's shelf. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evarmy98x
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 25, 2004 11:24 am PT
Review:  Although GC2 brings back some of the hectic tactical action of the first title, it falls flat in 
 many areas that made the predecessor so much fun. For one, squads of troopers no longer follow 
 you through the game as they did in GC. It was great to have the same little groundpounders slugging 
 it out under your command through the campaign in the first game - and gaining experience along 
 the way. In GC2 units only gain experience during the current mission and all that work is for 
 nothing when everyone's back to novice again on the next drop. However, GC2 does bring some nice 
 new features to the game: the ability to call in custom reinforcements via a rather well-armed 
 dropship, some good, if stereotyped, voice acting, and the marginally different Viron army. If 
 you enjoyed GC as I did, pick up GC2 and have at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masoumi
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 10, 2004 11:51 am PT
Review:  I'll tell ya why this isn't a great game. It doesn't attract anyone who doesn't like Strategy games 
 to the genre. If you aren't a fan of strat. you really won't like this. There isn't much in this 
 game other then micro-manageing scores of guys, and sending them on their way to either grab a 
 victory point, or attack a group of hostiles. 
  
  The graphics are pretty but that's when you are zoomed in. You will rarely ever play the game zoomed 
 in simply because you'll die. For some reason, in this game, every gun can shoot quite a distance. 
 So if you are zoomed in to much to view all the nice detail on your units, you'll get killed by 
 some guys miles away. The only way you can attack/see your enemy then, is to zoom all the way out. 
 When you are zoomed out, things don't really look ALL that great anymore. Meh. I don't think there 
 is anything spectacular here. 
  
  Sound. Not too great. When you are zoomed out, you can't really hear the individual bangs and booms 
 anymore. It don't sound like a battlefield.
  
  If you are hardcore in to strat games. then give this one a try, you'll probably like it. If you 
 are looking to get in to Strat games then without question, skip this and head RIGHT for Rise of 
 Nations.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sakko
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 30, 2004 10:16 am PT
Review:  Ground control 2 is pretty cool, but ultimately too difficult. I'm also a big fan of the control 
 options of Total Annihilation so I'm perhaps not someone that should be rating another RTS.
  
  GC2 offers the ability to group units effectively, and theres plenty of keyboard shortcuts 
 to make controlling your troops easier, but there is no command caching structure of any kind.
 
  
  The missions follow a story line that is decent. It's not a bad game, but it's just kind of average 
 and run of the mill.
  
  I gave GC2 a 7 in gameplay for these facts, nothing revolutionary, but still good clean fun. 9 
 in graphics because the graphics truly are superb. 7 in sound because its decent but nothing spectacular. 
 6 in value for the difficulty and "cheapness" of the missions. They often pit you against completely 
 unfair odds to challenge you, as though to make up for weak AI and limited depth of the actual 
 mission content.
  
  Reviewers Tilt I set to 5, because while this game is playable, I won't ever have the will to beat 
 it because it simply doesn't impress me as a game thats really worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noeldillabough
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 29, 2004 11:33 am PT
Review:  One of the best RTS game I've ever played... For me, it's right up there alongside Operation Flashpoint, 
 Earth 2150, Red Alert Generals, Warcraft III, its own predecessor, and that old thing that started 
 it all... Dune II.
  
  At its core, it's an intelligent person's RTS game... Extremely tactical, *very* demanding. As 
 the game doesn't have resource gathering, you have - in nearly all the missions - to synchronize 
 battle on several fronts. This takes a great deal of expertise with the interface, an excellent 
 sense of '3D orientation', planning... and a lot of mental flexibility.
  
  Overall, you *must* take time to reflect on the features of the battlefield in order to properly 
 choose the rock/paper/scissor combination that can take advantage of height, bushes, buildings, 
 narrows, bridges, etc. On wrong move from a counter you had not anticipated (e. g. not planning 
 for mortar attacks, disregarding threats from airplanes) , and its certain destruction for your 
 fragile (and expensive) forces. Needless to say, you constantly have to re-evaluate your tactics!
 
  
  The units are highly orthogonal and complement each other very well. The way the 'economy' works, 
 you are heavily rewarded for effective use of small forces by piling up 'acquisition points' that 
 you can use to upgrade your all-important drop ship and later in the mission purchase lots of units 
 for that final 'push'. Overall, you are economically rewarded by clever use of what you have, and 
 it's quite possible for the tide of battle to change quickly if the struggling player makes a few 
 brilliant moves...
  
  So far, I've completed all the human missions at 'Hard' level, and boy were they tough and demanding!! 
 A mission will take well over an hour to play and require a *meticulous* attention to survive the 
 initial onslaught and take the fight to the enemy. The game really comes into its own after 7-8 
 missions though, as you first have to 'unlearn' other RTS games (such as Red Alert or WarCraft) 
 before you can truly appreciate the game for what it is. You feel really proud of yourself when 
 you find the right tactical solution and get things right... That A. I. is surprisingly clever at 
 exploiting your weaknesses!
  
  A really neat touch to the genre: All the units in the game have a 'primary' and 'secondary' mode, 
 and it really pays to know them intimately! For example, the human's 'missile launcher' is your 
 basic anti-air unit, but it also doubles as a 'shield generator' that is the all-important counter 
 to the extremely annoying mortars that can hammer at you from great distance. If you don't know 
 things like that, you'll have no chance to complete the missions... (At least not at the hard level!)
 
  
  Another neat touch: The drop ship. This thing is by far your most valuable resource, and it really 
 pays to use it to the maximum of its potential. It the most difficult missions, it's not unusual 
 to spend 1/2 your resources upgrading this ship that can all disappear if you make the critical 
 mistake of getting the thing destroyed. With proper usage, it provides troops that are in difficulty 
 the all-important quick reinforcement, and provide a needed unit to get behind the enemy's shock 
 troops and get to the truly annoying weaker units!
  
  As the multi-front battles get so intense, you can loose an entire squadron in the blink of an 
 eye if you don't counter a weakness in a timely manner. It pays to set up your interface correctly... 
 I've spent several hours tweaking my 'TacticalBoard' and my 'GameVoice' so I can speak commands 
 and press single buttons to add some troops to 'group 3' without selecting the whole group or send 
 the Drop Ship home without figuring out what keys to press. I only wish the game had 'bookmarks' 
 the way General does so you could set and restore the camera view by pressing a button. Clicking 
 with precision on the minimap is a huge hassle in the midst of urgent events that unfold over multiple 
 fronts.
  
  If I had to gripe about something, the lack of camera bookmarks is a serious flaw for a 3D environment 
 that requires constant attention to multiple fronts. I also wished there was a hotkey to select 
 critically wounded units to bring them away from danger and that the camera would stop lowering 
 its altitude all the time! The developers probably did this so you could have a chance to observe 
 the really cool animations of the exquisitely-crafted models, but in the heat of the battle, you 
 always need the camera fully zoomed out, and constant need to raise its altitude is a nuisance.
 
  
  Man I wish a game like this would come out that would work on dual monitors! Wouldn't it be so 
 ultra-cool to have a full 3D view on one screen and all the support info on another screen?
  
  Still... I'm not so sure the game will enjoy the popularity of Generals or WarCraft: It's just 
 too cerebral! (Mind you, it might be a completely different experience playing the game at 'normal' 
 or 'easy')
  
  However, if you enjoy games that really require you to *think*, to maintain a constant balance 
 given very limited resources, and to really pit in very tactical gameplay, give this game a serious 
 look. The graphics are stunning, and the level of detail is amazing... Late in the game, I'm still 
 finding neat little moving parts everywhere that really adds a neat feeling of reality to the game. 
 Screenshots just don't give this game justice.
  
  And lastly, the sci-fi plot underlying the whole thing is brilliantly written, and the story and 
 the cut-scenes make you really feel you're part of something truly important. (The story's epic 
 struggle sort of has the desperate feel of 'The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress' by R. A. Heinlein. I won't 
 spoil the story any more... you'll just have to earn your story and cut scenes through hard-earned 
 victory!)
  
  Highly recommended. While not your typical 'no-brainer' RTS game where all you have to do is to 
 memorize a 'killer' build order that will work in all situations, Ground Control's artistic balance 
 of tactical play and edge-of-your-seat decision making should insure the game becomes a cult classic 
 like StarCraft and Operation Flashpoint...
  
  Challenge yourself... play this game at the hardest level!
  
  J. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 28, 2004 11:02 pm PT
Review:  I had a chance to go out and get this game recently and since the reviews gave it a good score 
 and a lot of people liked the first one i thought i'd give it a chance. That and if it wasn't any 
 good i'd just say it was defective and return it :-D.
  Anyway i'll make this review pretty cut and dry considering it's very late and i'm about to fall 
 asleep on my keyboard. The graphics are actually quiet good for an RTS, though there are some problems 
 with some of the detail but as long as you dont zoom in too much you will be very impressed. The 
 sound is VERY good i was astonished at how good the sound was because the explosions the guns firing 
 everything sounds wonderful. The gameplay in the game could have been improved a bit because the 
 scrolling through the map is annoying with the mouse. I keep finding myself scrolling with the 
 arrows and moving units with the mouse. Now the Value of this game took a blow because the game 
 tends to take a long time to play because of the time it takes to call out your reinforcements 
 and receive them and then place them where you want. Though the maps are real specific in how to 
 win against other players. 
  If you're in for a challenge and love games that take lots of strategy and time then this is the 
 game for you. This is a game that takes the graphic quality and strategy part of C&C: Generals 
 but uses its own twist on things with the sides. So go get it for crying out loud and stop listening 
 to me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Varik
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 26, 2004 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Thre only reason I didn't give this a value of 9 is because you will not be able to use the Terran 
 armies. And that is also, my only complaint about the game. However, i also expect (seriously expect) 
 some sort of add-on/upgrade to come out later that will allow us to use the Terran. 
  
  Gameplay/camera can be a little tricky to get the hang of, but most of us have played enough of 
 these things we can adjust. 
  
  It's not just another run-of-the-mill RTS game. This one has character and it's own unique process. 
 
  
  Excellent game, if you like RTS games, this is not one to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2004 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Finally a brave step for the RTS genre. This game does the unspeakable, and removes the aspect 
 everyone has come to expect: Resource management and builing.
  
  As a huge fan of traditional RTS games I was a bit dissapointed to learn this at first, but to 
 my joy and surprise, it actually works extremely well! I did not miss it at all.
  
  You do some kind of resource management, as you are given points for good combat skills. These 
 points can be spent to send reinfocements. The trick is to get as many kills as possible with as 
 few forces as possible. Clever use of your units is thus rewarded, while mass suicides are not. 
 In fact, the game really invites you to play tactically in a totally new and refreshing way.
  
  This brings us to the AI, which is in fact surprisingly good. The enemy will flee if outnumbered, 
 and return when you are in trouble. The enemy will also try to lure you out from your strongholds, 
 and then overwhelm you. I suspect the fact that all buildings are hard-coded into the levels made 
 it possible to create a much smarter behaviour model, and it works well.
  
  And, the graphics should also be mentioned. It is truly great, and the screenshots does not do 
 the game justice. Weather effects are animated in truly convincing ways, the water is simply beautifully 
 rendered and if you look up to the sky (yes, you can look freely in all directions, also up) you 
 will see everchanging clouds floating by. The attention to details is mindblowing, and truly breathtaking 
 at times, you will find new details continuously through the game.
  
  The story is also well written, it's obvious they have put quite some effort into making the plot 
 convincing and does a great job of making you feel a part of an interactive science fiction story. 
 The voiceovers are particulary great, and the voices sounds natural and convincing.
  
  If I really had to say something negative about the game, it would be a couple of minor annoyances. 
 Like the camera having a tendency to drop down if you scroll over a "hole" in the landscape, making 
 you move the camera up again manually a lot to get a proper overview. Also, I miss being able to 
 order units around in pause mode, as the action can get hectic sometimes and in some missions you 
 need to complete things fast in order to win. By being forced to do too much at one time the strategy 
 element drowns in a hopeless battle with navigating the GUI fast enough.
  
  But, again, these are minor problems. Overall, this is a great game, that breathes new life into 
 RTS gaming! :)
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
