-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ground Control
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/groundcontrol/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 15, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.6, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 537 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Massive Ent
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date:     May 31, 2000
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Ground Control is not only one of the best-looking tactical combat games to date, but also one that's 
 suitably challenging and rewarding. 

 Swedish developer Massive Entertainment's Ground Control is a 3D real-time tactical combat game 
 that puts you in command of squads of high-tech military vehicles and powerful infantry squads. 
 Despite its few shortcomings and frustrating design issues, you'll find that Ground Control is 
 not only one of the best-looking games to date but also one that's suitably challenging and rewarding. 
   

  Ground Control looks absolutely awesome. The game's fully 3D engine renders each of the game's 
 realistically animated military units with lots of detail, even when you view them up close. The 
 game's texture maps are clean and seamless, and the scenery is fully realized: You can see dunes 
 in the sand, and bugs buzzing around in dense patches of tropical foliage. You can also see shell 
 casings pouring out of your infantry's automatic weapons, dirt kicking up in the wake of your treaded 
 vehicles, and crackling energy emanating from your beam weapons. You can even see the pilots sitting 
 in the cockpits of some of your vehicles. Ground Control also features exceptionally good special 
 effects, from the muzzle flash and tracers of your tanks' weapons to the bright, radiant explosions 
 that ensue when their targets are struck. In addition, realistic lighting effects distinguish battles 
 taking place at different times of day. The game's artillery weapons are especially impressive 
 - they launch volleys of devastating projectiles high into the air in a deadly arc. Ground Control's 
 flying units also make spectacular swoops and dives above the battlefield. You really get a good 
 sense of the scale and intensity of battle when you play Ground Control - thanks in part to the 
 game's dynamic sound. When your camera view is zoomed out, you hear the general tumult of warfare; 
 closer in, you'll be able to distinguish the sounds of the specific units that are closest to you. 
 The effect is well done, even though the game's sound effects themselves aren't especially noteworthy. 
   

  In spite of the superb quality of Ground Control's graphics and presentation, the unit detail is 
 not as evident when you're concentrating on controlling your forces, because you'll have to view 
 the game from a raised, isometric perspective that fits a couple of dozen units comfortably onscreen. 
 From this angle, it becomes harder to distinguish different types of units, even at higher resolutions. 
 In addition, as with many 3D real-time strategy games, Ground Control's interface takes some getting 
 used to. Fortunately, it works pretty well once you figure it out. You use the mouse to rotate 
 and tilt your view, but the controls for scrolling and zooming your perspective are on the keyboard. 
 Small onscreen buttons that are difficult to click on in the heat of battle represent your various 
 squads' special abilities, but they can be mapped to keyboard hotkeys to make their functions easier 
 to use. Ground Control's step-by-step in-game tutorial does a good job of getting you accustomed 
 to the camera and unit controls.   

  When you select a unit in Ground Control, you give orders to its entire squad. At first it may 
 seem disorienting when you order a marine to use his mortar and his entire squad lets loose with 
 its deadly special weapons. So while all your individual units behave and fire independently in 
 combat, and can get split up and individually damaged and destroyed, essentially you only have 
 control over the squad as a whole. Squads range from eight-man infantry teams to small platoons 
 of four or even just two tanks. And artillery squads comprise only a single vehicle. The squad-level 
 control means that while you'll need to pay close attention to your individual units' health, you'll 
 usually be occupied with keeping track of the entire squad's status. This can get frustrating, 
 as you'll be inclined to retreat individual units that are taking the brunt of the enemy's fire, 
 but you won't be able to do so without retreating the entire squad. You'll watch individual tanks 
 be destroyed all the time because you can't micromanage their squads. And sometimes they'll even 
 be destroyed before you know it, because the game's colored selection indicators use the same color 
 as the units' little health meters. As such, it's difficult to tell how much damage a unit has 
 sustained, except from the more evident onscreen indications when the unit itself catches fire 
 and starts smoking.   

  Furthermore, the game's minimap, which shows a top-down overview of the battlefield and your forces, 
 doesn't clearly indicate what's happening and where your camera is centered. Ground Control also 
 doesn't let you adjust the speed of the gameplay. You can imagine that situations may heat up and 
 become overwhelming very quickly if you're not prepared for them.    

 Fortunately, the game's single-player campaign does a good job of gradually increasing the number 
 of units you control from mission to mission. The 30-mission campaign is divided in half to tell 
 the story from the perspective of either of the game's opposing factions, a powerful corporation 
 and what appears to be a religious cult. And Ground Control's story is actually quite involving, 
 as it slowly unravels through mission briefings, post-mission narratives, and in-mission scripted 
 sequences. Nevertheless, the game's rather straightforward science-fiction setting may initially 
 discourage some, who may be put off by the game's somewhat typical-looking units and its familiar 
 premise. But in fact, Ground Control's linear campaign is superior to that of most real-time strategy 
 games - the missions have a lot of variety, and they're contextually relevant because of the game's 
 good plot. Unfortunately, it's impossible to save your game during a mission, and since the later 
 missions are rather long and certainly tough, you'll inevitably end up having to play through them 
 many times. Because the game doesn't include an in-mission save feature, the campaign is needlessly 
 frustrating. Ground Control's a difficult game even at the default setting, but at least you can 
 adjust the difficulty of each mission.   

  Since Ground Control is a tactical game, you'll never have to worry about managing resources - 
 you just have to worry about keeping your units in line and using them to maximum effect. This 
 is easier said than done: Although your units will act autonomously to a limited degree, you're 
 responsible for maneuvering them into the best position to fight their foes. Moving your units 
 to higher ground, into darkness, or behind cover are all viable means of increasing their combat 
 efficiency. Similarly, you'll want to flank your enemies and attack their weaker armor on the sides 
 and back. Fortunately, Ground Control looks so realistic that such tactical decisions quickly become 
 intuitive. Yet while you'll enjoy the advantages presented by the various terrain features outlying 
 each battle, you'll also quickly learn to loathe your units' tendency to indiscriminately shoot 
 one another in the back. It's supposed to be a feature - part of your role as commander is to prevent 
 your forces from getting in one another's way. But in practice, you'll find that they'll shoot 
 one another all the time. You need to keep your units close together so they can concentrate their 
 attacks, but when you do so, they'll end up hurting themselves. Friendly fire is disabled on the 
 lower difficulty settings, but then again, Ground Control is a simpler game without it. It's unfortunate 
 that friendly fire is so common in the game and that your units don't have the sense to realign 
 themselves to some limited extent on their own. In addition, because there's no fog of war in Ground 
 Control, it's difficult to tell just when exactly your units are close enough to detect their enemies. 
 At the same time, some of your units are supposed to have higher ratings for stealth, but in practice 
 it's difficult to tell just how close they can get without being spotted. Issues like this can 
 make the outcomes of battles in Ground Control a lot less controllable than you'd like.   

  Though most of these problems also affect the game when you're playing against a human opponent, 
 multiplayer Ground Control can still be a lot of fun - especially with the option to drop in on 
 a game in progress. The game has a fully integrated game-server search feature through Sierra's 
 WON. net, which virtually guarantees that you'll find online competition. You can choose to play 
 Ground Control in teams or with several types of victory conditions, and you can set it so that 
 your forces will be reinforced intermittently. Unfortunately, there's no way to play a skirmish 
 battle against the computer, nor can you include computer opponents in a match against other human 
 players. This shortcoming points to an issue with the single-player campaigns, which seem to be 
 entirely scripted such that your enemies have very little sense of their own. Their behavior is 
 simply predefined according to the mission. Otherwise, playing Ground Control against other human 
 players really accentuates the differences between the game's two different factions: One consists 
 primarily of traditional-looking treaded vehicles, while the other uses lighter, faster hovering 
 vehicles with energy weapons. The two sides play differently, and each has a few particularly unusual 
 units and plenty of interesting special weapons.   

  Ground Control is an outstanding game with occasional problems that affect its longevity and its 
 tactical depth. The game's long single-player campaign is enjoyable and interesting enough to offset 
 any frustration you'll inevitably experience as you're forced to replay its scenarios. And while 
 the game's multiplayer mode lacks the breadth of features you'd wish for in a game of such high 
 quality as Ground Control, you'll still find it highly enjoyable thanks to the team tactics that 
 are introduced when the game's two factions join forces. Ultimately, Ground Control is a fast-paced 
 game of skill that's highly accessible and often very impressive.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gbarules2999
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  *This review only covers the free version of this game, available on FilePlanet.*
  
  When I first grabbed this game off of FilePlanet, which was holding promotions for their sequel, 
 I was a little biased. I had StarCraft, and that's enough RTS fun for me, until I can get a copy 
 of Dawn of War or something a little more advanced. Wow, was I wrong; this has been the one and 
 only RTS game to ever captivate me beyond the tutorial.
  
  The first awesome thing about Ground Control, even to this day, is the graphics. You can tell me 
 it's a seven year old game, you can tell me that it looks a little humble in places... more often 
 than not, this game has impressed me with well made details and worlds without blogging my cruddy 
 computer down. The fully rotatable camera works wonders at letting you see your units up and personal 
 in their battles... or high up to get a Supreme Commander like view.
  
  And the game looks nice... there are some absolutely stunning art design stuff done here to give 
 the game a "bammo socko" approach, even at its age. Grenades and artillery shells, I don't care 
 how jaded of a graphics loser you are, they still look awesome when they come down and slam their 
 opponents to smithereens, and you put your camera right in the front seat.
  
  Granted, I had to shut most of the features off, even with my machine "of the future," like shadows 
 on everything, clouds, units, flying or not. But that's the great part: you can just turn everything 
 off and get a nice, smooth experience with the game, no matter what your computer specs are. So 
 while it's older but still nice looking, it never gets in the way of what makes it really good: 
 the gameplay.
  
  Think Advance Wars on the GBA. Now take away unit creation, and make the game super deep and a 
 lot more complex in the way the units behave. Not make the whole thing Real Time and you have Ground 
 Control. Granted, it does not have any resource management, but that's the best part: all you have 
 to do is worry about your units, right there and then. You guide your units to do whatever they 
 need to do at that moment on the battlefield, be it kill or capture.
  
  Except that it's not your units, it's your squads. You don't just grab one dude, you grab his whole 
 extended family: GC treats, like Advance Wars, units as part of a squad, who do everything together. 
 This is nowhere as bad as it sounds, and the only issue is getting over the "I want to micro manage" 
 instinct that most longtime RTS players will have. Relative newbies to the genre will feel right 
 at ease, and it will actually make the process of learning much easier, with the campaign and tutorial.
 
  
  The game has a very well done tutorial, as a matter of fact, and it pays off. After you learn to 
 control and wield all of your machinery, you are thrust within a 30-mission campaign, which is 
 fairly well done and weighted for your experience. The first few missions will give you a sense 
 of security as the game ramps up, giving you more puzzles to think when you control your squads 
 with extra power.
  
  And you can. Not only can you decide how to send them into battle: aggressive, lined up, boxed, 
 filed in, guns drawn or no firing, etc, but you can also outfit them as well. Granted, this is 
 a little annoying when it is forced on you, because this aspect of the game isn't quite up to the 
 rest of the game's excellent standards.
  
  What else will you not find up to standards? Other reviews have mentioned pathfinding as an issue, 
 and I disagree. Again, I'm jaded from StarCraft, but as a gamer I see no issue with how the units 
 move... they all got to their spot within time. The enemy AI is also fairly decent, though a little 
 too easy on the easiest level. So to put it bluntly, this game is up to standards by far.
  
  The cutscenes, however, are grainy and hard to see... possibly a very poor resolution. What 
 makes this annoying is that what you are downloading in the 450 MB installer is about 190 MB video. 
 Plainly put, they could have been done in-engine very easily, and it would have saved a lot of 
 space and eyes. Another issue is stuttering audio during the briefings, which can get really, really 
 annoying and hard to listen to... sometimes, I have to just turn my speakers off. (This might all 
 be a FilePlanet installer problem, however.)
  
  But that's the only issue I have with the audio, other than the music is too low to hear it at 
 first. Crank it up and you will hear an impressive array of army-goes-to-battle tunes, which suit 
 the theme enormously. The voice-overs are well done for the most part, though some of the accents 
 are obviously fake and get in the way. Nothing really horrible, though.
  
  And if the game isn't enough that it's good and pretty, it's also long. With free multiplayer, 
 a 30-map campaign, and a few downloadable skirmish maps, you can play this big boy for a long time, 
 with the map editor as well (not included) . It's perhaps standard to have limitless amounts of 
 gameplay in a RTS now, and GC pulled it off.
  
  Ground Control pulled a lot of stuff off, but you've heard me rant enough. If you're deliberating 
 whether to throw on the bandwidth for a few hours, jump on it and grab that game. You will NOT 
 be sorry. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LT_Winters
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 2, 2006 10:17 pm PT
Review:  Ground Control entered the strategy gaming spectrum alongside Homeworld, a highly successful full 
 3D strategy game that took the seemingly daunting task of three-dimensional navigation and conquered 
 it with a smart, intuitive control system. In similar fashion, Ground Control brings the world 
 of ground combat to the 3D age with a well-designed interface that makes it easy even for RTS neophytes 
 to get into the fight. The game's no-nonsense, fast-paced action, beautiful environments, and unique 
 approach to real-world strategy and tactics makes Ground Control a great choice for any real-time 
 strategy fan.
  
  Ground Control locks two futuristic warring factions into combat on the war-torn planet of Krig-7B. 
 Both sides survived a series of apocalyptic wars on Earth to launch to the stars and create massive 
 interstellar empires. The Crayven Corporation concerns itself with maximum profit, sometimes to 
 the apparent disregard of the soldiers' lives. The fanatical Order of the New Dawn commands a legion 
 of selfless, unquestioning troops in the war against the heathen and heretic. 
  
  The story itself is actually fairly engaging, fueled by cool cinematics and good voice acting, 
 both in mission briefings and during the battles themselves. Plot often unfolds during battle, 
 providing a convincing reason to keep playing. The constant cliff-hanger storyline doesn't hurt 
 either, as you try to uncover a massive secret that has both sides devoting unusually high resources 
 for such a desolate world. The rich storyline is pleasantly reminiscent of such acclaimed games 
 as Starcraft and Warcraft III, and it really adds a lot to the experience.
  
  Ground Control completely eschews several typical real-time strategy concepts. There is no resource 
 gathering at any point in the game, nor is there any way to produce or train additional units during 
 missions. The units that you bring to a mission are all that you will usually get to complete the 
 objectives. Massive Entertainment skillfully evades the obvious pitfall behind this design; the 
 game is full of additional tactical depth to keep gamers occupied.
  
  Before each mission in the campaign, as well as in online multiplayer, you select squads of units 
 to fill your dropships, which shuttle you to and from missions. The selection of combat forces 
 is diverse, including combat infantry, light and heavy assault vehicles, several slower artillery 
 units, and a few types of stunning aerodynes or low-flying support aircraft. You command units 
 in collective squads (ranging from a single to up to eight units) that appear on a command interface 
 with health and status reports. Each unit is rated in four abilities: firepower, armor, speed, 
 and perception (view range) . Units with high speed and perception tend to have lower firepower 
 and armor values, and vice versa. Each unit can also have one offensive and one utility special 
 ability, with a few charges depending on the ability's power. For example, Crayven Marine units 
 can have assault mortars and medpacks. Each type of unit has a few choices in each category that 
 you can set before each mission.
  
  The game does a good job of easing players into the experience and initially limiting the selection 
 of units and abilities, then quickly broadening the choices that you have as you grow in skill 
 and experience. Ground Control's combat is, with few exceptions, intense, exciting, and thoroughly 
 entertaining to watch and engage in. To make up for the lack of resource gathering, the game gives 
 you plenty to think about and plan for in the thick of the fight. The developers do so by borrowing 
 several concepts from more intricate wargames. Vehicles have weaker armor at the sides and the 
 rear, so it pays to plan flank attacks. The cover that you see in-game actually works; hiding infantry 
 in a bed of rocks makes it much harder for vehicles to see and hit them with heavy weapons. Elevation 
 also matters. Units on top of a hill have far better perception, accuracy, and cover than units 
 below. All of these considerations combine to create a true tactical atmosphere that would not 
 be present in a typical strategy game. At its best, the game creates a fantastic combat experience.
 
  
  Unfortunately, Ground Control possesses a few disappointing design flaws and omissions that hold 
 it back a bit. The first is an addition to the list of tactical details that the developers added 
 in order to enhance the depth of the game. The concept of friendly fire is introduced in the normal 
 and hard difficulty levels. A squad firing from behind another friendly squad will inevitably shoot 
 that group of tanks in the rear. In theory, this forces the player to realistically place squads 
 and tank formations so as to maximize firepower and minimize confusion but, in practice, yields 
 to constant frustration as the game's suspect pathfinding and individual unit AI kicks in. Units 
 ordered to move to a position will often get stuck on geographic features such as rocks or thick 
 foliage, resulting in some annoying clicking battles to get your troops back on track. Tanks in 
 battle will tend to get stuck in between squads, turn their back sides to the enemy, and in general 
 confuse themselves. It makes the missions far more frustrating than they would normally be.
  
  In-game saves are also mysteriously omitted, apparently to increase the game's challenge and 
 tension; in reality, this only multiplies the frustration felt in some of the extremely difficult 
 later missions. The game also suffers from a smattering of poor design decisions. Before each mission, 
 you can tweak your squads' abilities, perhaps increasing a tank squad's firepower at the expense 
 of its speed, or some other combination. Squad morale and experience also increases with successive 
 missions and combat tours, making the units supposedly more accurate and devastating with each 
 shot. The problem with these good design aspects is that, unlike the devastating effect of each 
 unit's special abilities, there are no drastic visible effects at all of any of your pre-mission 
 decisions and unit experience levels. Many unit abilities are tough to accurately use and judge. 
 For example, Crayven sniper infantry units can supposedly cloak and blend in with surroundings, 
 but it's tough to really plan any sort of sneak operation because you don't know the effective 
 range of this cloaking; any experimentation could lead to the death of the squad. The lack of in-mission 
 saves amplifies this problem.
  
  These problems may sound crippling, but Ground Control still manages to deliver a powerful strategy 
 gaming experience because of the sheer intensity of its combat and the amount of tactics required 
 to achieve victory. The game's beautiful graphics presentation certainly helps. The high quality 
 textures, intricate lighting, and exhaustive detail on each unit really immerses the player into 
 the game. The sound is also impressive, featuring dynamic levels of volume and booming explosions, 
 as well as a solid voice acting performance for nearly every character in the game. Multiplayer 
 is also a unique experience, far more frantic and fast-paced than any other strategy game to date. 
 Battles combine judicious use of tactics and flanking with the beautiful dance of artillery shells 
 and high-speed aircraft dogfighting in the skies. The multiplayer package is only slightly hampered 
 by some balancing problems between the more preferable heavy assault units and their recon counterparts. 
 Aerodynes, though stunning to watch in action, are extremely vulnerable to the game's diverse and 
 common anti-air units, so their use can be limited. The two sides tend to be anolagous to each 
 other; a heavy assault tank on one side is met by a vehicle of similar ability on the other. Each 
 faction nonetheless has a distinct feel to it.
  
  There is a lot to say about Ground Control. The game's 30 mission single-player campaign will chew 
 up a lot of time and easily justify the price of admission, and that's not even counting the fantastic 
 multiplayer component. Though Massive Entertainment's 3D gem may have some flaws, these missteps 
 are ultimately overcome to produce a fantastic tactical combat experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: XSlyGOG
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  The graphics were just one of the best i've seen, gameplay was great and it was pretty hard if 
 you couldnt learn fast enough to catch up to the pace. The gameplay was just absolutely amazing 
 but what was disappointing was that there wasnt a medic bside ur apc which made it hard to keep 
 all your units in piece when assaulting a base filled with heavy cannons. The game cover was more 
 than it is shown. when i first got this game, i thought it would be boring but it seemed to be 
 the best game i've played and was totally satisfied with it. CAnt get enough! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chessem
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 19, 2005 8:49 am PT
Review:  Ground Control is really a breakthrough. In no other game of the time (or even now) did the developers 
 input so much realism. But then again, this isn't your classic strat game either.
  
  Ground control is focused on one thing: absoloute control and domination of the battlefield. Theres 
 no micromanaging of buildings and instalations. You drop your units in, you fight with those units... 
 simple as that.
  
  To make this more realistic, the game includes very versatile camera options that allow the player 
 to get into the battle (and follow it) more or less to the point of a shooter. That being said, 
 the dedvelopers used shooter-type graphic engines to get this effect so good job, they pulled it 
 off.
  
  As well as that, they made the fighting pretty realistic and (in some cases) beautiful to watch. 
 Airplanes dogfight (almost) for real with one following the other and doing loops ect. Tank and 
 vehicle armor is different in different places so flanking is required for succesful skirmishes. 
 Damage is only counted if the bullet actually hits the enemy, and they hit more if you are closer 
 to the enemy.
  
  Also before you go into your mission, you can choose your equipment armor firepower, class of unit 
 (you can choose between heavy/medium/light infantry/vehicle/airplane) .
  
  Thats the battle part of the review done.
  
  On the sound side... not too great, the music 
 isn't very attractive, when your tanks are rolling along and the music fades listening to the hum 
 of the engines is pretty dull and even in the fighting, the sound doesn't get you heaved up in 
 exitement and awe of the explosions that are blowing up the place.
  
  Plus the cutscenes are particularily weak and uneffective, most seem somwhat out of place... they 
 only become clear when they talk about them in the next breifing.
  
  So all in all a pretty good game, but its downsides make it somewhat dull after a while and it 
 takes some will to fling yourelf back into the game once youve exited. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SunnySimantov
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 8, 2005 9:06 pm PT
Review:  So Ground Control is a real time strategy game set in the future, about 100 hundred years from 
 now.
  
  You start your first mission right into the action, you get mission briefing, set your soldiers 
 (whom you can change a bit, add to their speed in cost of fire-power or add armor in cost of speed.) 
 and when you get to the mission, you need to drop those soldiers from a drop ship, and from there 
 - the only way out is finishing the mission.
  The first mission is set in the desert, where you need to assault a small enemy base and take out 
 specific structures there. Buildings in the game have no major meaning to most mission, but here 
 and there there are turrets which you need to disable and power generators, which if you destroy 
 will make the turrets go down.
  The plot isn't the most attractive aspect of the game, but it might be quiet interesting. Weird 
 pointy buildings appear in several location, but no one knows what they actually do, and as the 
 war between you and the enemy advances, so does the plot advances.
  There are two fractions, which you use one after you finished the previous and each has 15 missions 
 to complete.
  Actually, the two factions are against each other, but after one of the other faction's commander 
 or whatever convinced that the pointy weird buildings are dangerous, you take control of him.
 
  Graphically, the game looks spectacular. Amazing special effects, detailed units and different 
 in-game time sets make this game one of the most amazing looking games ever. I enjoyed looking 
 at those heavy battles, which eventually out of losing my mind I lost. I should've paid more attention 
 of what's going and not how's it looking =P.
  The game requires a lot of tactics, although mostly it isn't too complicated, but still can make 
 the game really lengthy, especially the multi-player option which really give the value a high 
 score, although I did not play it actually. I only tested. And, for the game itself, I never finished 
 it because it was too tough for me. A snow mission got me seriously.
  The one thing that I missed is in-missions saving. You must finish the mission or you will have 
 to re-start. I always had to sadly turn off my computer when I had to go.
  So, Ground Control is all about amazing graphics, excellent and innovative experience which will 
 not be forgotten ever. If you are into strategy or just like games, don't miss this hot game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 28, 2005 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Ground Control is a pretty entertaining strategy that game that focuses completely on combat; you 
 won't be trying to gather as much resources as you can as fast as you can, since there is no resource 
 gathering whatsoever. 
  
  Graphics are nice, and at the same time rather unimpressive. What you see looks pretty good; terrain 
 is nice, though a little bit too barren. Units look nice all around, buildings look pretty well 
 too. The effects are the best part. You can see the gun trails on each unit when it fires, as well 
 as the explosion when it colliedes with something. Artillery have a really nice effect too, though 
 you would have to see it to know what I'm talking about. 
  
  As I said, the terrain is rather barren; you won't be seeing many trees or grass, or land effects, 
 etc... but the game runs pretty smooth even on lower end systems because of that. As long as you 
 have a decent processor, you'll be able to put the view distance at max and can then see really 
 far with relatively little slowdown. Seeing allies off in the distance exchanging fire with the 
 enemies, and watching the units light up with the gunfire, looks pretty cool too. 
  
  Sound is nothing special. There's no music, atleast none that I heard. For the most part you'll 
 be keeping busy though, so you won't really notice the lack of it. Sound effects are nice, but 
 nothing special. Voice acting is decent, but can sometimes be annoying, though that might just 
 be for me. There was also a really annoying bug where someone would keep repeating a few words 
 over and over instead of speaking their whole line on the conversation screen which REALLY gets 
 annoying. 
  
  You assume the role of Sarah Parker, a battlefield commander, and must control a number of groups 
 to achieve your missions. With each new objective, you usually get a new group, as well as keeping 
 your old ones. You must use these units to complete various tasks, though for the most part it's 
 only 'Destroy this unit', or 'Destroy this building' in various forms. 
  
  Your main unit will be a command unit that can attack, though not too powerful, but can heal and 
 repair other units, and must be kept alive. You'll have various forms of infantry, tanks, artillery, 
 and even air units to use, most have a few special abilities as well. As would be expected, you 
 must use strategy to beat the larger enemy force, though that mainly consists of positioning your 
 units well. 
  
  Things you must consider include: Elevation (Higher ground means more accurate) , lighting (Your 
 harder to see when you're in the shadows) , if your command unit can quickly reach most if not all 
 of your units to heal them without getting damage, etc... It's pretty fun since most games (at 
 least the ones I've played) do not really factor in posistioning *too* much. The game is still 
 pretty well balanced, but when you find a really good position, battles will be much easier. 
 
  
  If you'd like to play a game that requires a little more strategy than most strategy games nowadays, 
 Ground Control offers pretty entertaining gameplay. I admit, I was a bit skeptical when I heard 
 there's no resource gathering; I've always liked resource gathering since it adds another element 
 to the game, but Ground Control still impressed me without it. If you enjoy strategy games because 
 of strategy, and not just because of the gameplay of previous games of the genre (Age of Empires, 
 Warcraft, etc...) Ground Control has alot to offer. 
  
  There is also one other thing I should mention, at least currently, the game is free. In celebration 
 of their upcoming game, Ground Control 2, they have released Ground Control free for download. 
 I found it on FilePlanet, but I don't know where else to find it. If you've got the time to download 
 a 600 mb game, I'd suggest doing it; this game was pretty entertaining for me. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
