-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: GTI Racer
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/gtiracer/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Car models look nice.
 beetle and golf fans will have plenty to choose from.
 &quot;slidy&quot; driving physics are fun for a while.
 lots of parts to choose from.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Absolutely zero challenge, even at stiffest difficulty.
 single-player experience is very short.
 Locales and tracks are recycled too much.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 16, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.1
Critic Score: 5.1, 6.3 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 71 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: TopWare
Genre: Driving
Date:     Feb 9, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
An amusing, harmless automobile brand inspires an amusing, harmless racing game. 

  When you think of the pinnacle of motorsport excellence, which automobile companies come to mind? 
 Ferrari, Mercedes, Chevrolet? Only if you page through the list a bit further will you come to 
 Volkswagen, a company known more for its marketing slogans than its history of racing success. 
 That said, the Volkswagen company has inspired the maker of GTI Racer to create a racing game based 
 solely around the family-friendly brand. While fans of the VW line will likely be pleased with 
 a pretty comprehensive lineup of Volkswagen makes and models, the actual racing in this game leaves 
 much to be desired.  

          Gentlemen, start your Beetles. GTI Racer features a wide swath of Volkswagen makes and 
 models.     

  The meat and potatoes of GTI Racer's single-player game is the race-series mode, which is sort 
 of a low-rent Gran Turismo career mode that has you progressing through a number of different race 
 types, collecting money as you go to purchase more powerful VW models, as well as upgrade parts 
 to apply to them. Of course, beyond doing the very basic improvements of upping acceleration and/or 
 top speed, the upgrades don't feel like they do much for your car -- and the game's elementary difficulty 
 level means you can win almost any event in the series without doing any tweaking to your car at 
 all. For example, moving to a softer suspension and higher ride height seems like it would make 
 sense for the bumpy off-road races -- and in most racing games it would. However, in GTI Racer, these 
 kinds of adjustments make practically zero difference in your lap times at all.  

  Winning races in GTI Racer is rarely challenging. Your typical event in the race-series mode pits 
 you against three opponents, most of whom you'll blow by at the start line. Barring any catastrophic 
 accidents, it's easy enough to keep your car ahead of the pack, and though the game does make use 
 of catch-up logic to keep your opponents close, you'll usually only lose races if you get into 
 a big wreck toward the end of the race. Other race events in the game include cross-country checkpoint 
 races, point-to-point races, drift challenges, and drag-racing events (the latter two are the only 
 events in which you'll need to make some adjustments to your car) . There's also an odd variant 
 on the checkpoint race that has you careening your car in some of the game's more urban environments, 
 while trying to dodge cardboard-cutout pedestrians who randomly run out into the street.  

  GTI Racer's driving model is just as straightforward as the competition you'll face. Despite the 
 stabs at grease-monkey car customization, this is pure arcade racing, with cars that drift and 
 slide around corners with the greatest of ease and a damage model that is purely cosmetic. Braking, 
 especially in the early going, is practically not needed at all, and the cars rarely feel as if 
 they have any weight to them on the road. This isn't to say it's altogether bad -- it can be fun 
 whipping your ride left and right with nary a care for your car's safety as you navigate around 
 the twisting turns of the game's courses -- but the lack of challenge eventually overtakes the game's 
 amusing physics. While the game can be played with either a wheel or a game pad, you can easily 
 win races just by playing with the default keyboard controls. Need we say more?  

  Still, there is some pleasure to be derived from seeing all those Volkswagen models available at 
 your fingertips. The game organizes its car roster along eight oddly named categories, including 
 "expenses," "devotion," "addiction," and, naturally, "extreme." The majority of the cars in the 
 game come from VW's Beetle and Golf line -- sorry Jetta or Passat fans -- and, though most the cars 
 aren't exactly what you'd refer to as sporty, there are a few exceptions, such as the sleek-looking 
 W12 Coupe 2001 and W12 Roadster 1998. The game's titular Golf GTIs come in a number of different 
 shapes and sizes, seemingly spanning the entire lifespan of the line.  

  There aren't a ton of locales to race in GTI Racer -- the events occur in places like Germany, Italy, 
 France, Great Britain, and Texas -- and all of these locales share a common generic feel that doesn't 
 help to differentiate one from the other. The environments themselves look OK, with rolling hills 
 and mountainous backgrounds that add a sense of scale to things, but practically everything in 
 the environment is static. The courses do feature signs and other roadside objects you can smash, 
 but beyond that, there's practically zero movement in the backgrounds. You'd expect, for example, 
 the grass to roll and part as you speed through it during the cross-country races, but it just 
 doesn't happen in this game. To its credit, the game features a number of different camera angles, 
 including an in-car view. The bad news is that the textures used for the car interiors are ugly 
 and muddled.  

  While the game's graphics has its highs and lows, GTI Racer's sound is almost all bad news. The 
 car engines, from your very first Beetle to your final W12 Coupe, sound laughably tinny and lame. 
 In our time with the game, we noticed multiple instances where the engine sounds would clip and 
 stutter when engaging our car's nitrous system, and the sounds of the cars as they interact with 
 the road (either by skidding the tires or by rolling and crashing) are just as uninspiring. To 
 accompany this lifeless audio palette, or perhaps to drown it out, the game's techno soundtrack 
 is shrill and repetitive, and it will have you quickly searching the menus to turn it off completely. 

          Looks like Lindsay's out of rehab again.     

  The minimal number of locales are recycled throughout GTI Racer's race-series mode, resulting in 
 redesigned courses that reroute you off-road and into more complex series of twists and turns that 
 rarely show off the increasingly powerful members of your car collection. Once you've tired of 
 the single-player game, you can theoretically take your driving skills online and race in four-player 
 events via an Internet or LAN connection. Unfortunately, despite multiple attempts, we weren't 
 able to find anyone online playing the game to test our skills against.  

  It won't take you more than a few hours to rip through GTI Racer's single-player game, and by then 
 you'll have long since experienced everything the game's simplistic driving model and comatose 
 artificial intelligence has to offer. Like so many other make-specific driving games, GTI Racer 
 seems more like a cheap attempt to attract fans of the brand than a serious racing effort. It's 
 not terrible, but it's no Fahrvergngen.  

   

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: linmukai
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 5, 2008 2:43 am PT
Review:  Let's get this right out of the way up front: yes GTI is a simple arcade racer. It's not Gran Turismo 
 for Volkswagens. It's not NFS for Volkswagens. It's just a simple, straightforward, easy to jump 
 in and play arcade racing experience that happens to focus on the Volkswagen brand and who doesn't 
 have at least some appreciation for the famous Beetles?
  
  The graphics are of good quality, the sound track is ok but nothing special, the damage modeling 
 is almost non-existent other than broken windows that look cool maybe the first time or two you 
 see them. So given these weaknesses, why do I like it?
  
  Simple. It's fun. It's fun to drive. It's not frustrating and yes it is easy to win but I don't 
 care. I am not racing in this game to prove anything. I just want to have some fun driving and 
 easy mode is nice sometimes frankly. I am not looking for the omg, I finally beat that race feeling 
 here. I just enjoy hopping into a cool Beetle and racing through some nice looking scenery against 
 other Beetles and that's it. And there's nothing wrong with that either. As far as I am concerned, 
 this game is great at what it does. Does it rank a superb rating? No. I wouldn't go that far but 
 will I call it great? Yes I will because for what it is, it is great fun and I enjoy it.
  
  The replay feature is a fun little diversion too and sometimes its enjoyable to just watch a race 
 that for whatever reason, be it crashes, I won! or whatnot. It's very easy to control and allows 
 you to easily switch to various views or just let it randomly cycle the camera if you like.
  
  This would be a great game for younger kids too if there are some in your household who'd enjoy 
 something easy enough to be fun and not frustrating. It's not very hardware intensive and yet it 
 looks very nice. The settings are easily configurable if you do want to run it on an older PC.
 
  
  I'd highly recommend spending the 20 bucks for a Logitech Gamepad which if you are not familiar 
 with them, look just like a PS2 controller. There's nothing to install - just plug the USB cord 
 in and check the game knows you are using this controller and bingo. Off you go!
  
  One of things I am often highly critical of in racing games is the control. I am definately an 
 arcade racing fan and not big on simulation that includes touchy, difficult controls. If I want 
 a realistic racing experience I'll leave a little late for work thanks. I get plenty of that in 
 real life. I am completely uninterested in working hard at a racing game. I appreciate the quaility 
 and fun for some in more complex and advanced games but in my opinion that hardly renders simpler 
 games as lesser experiences. It's more about what you enjoy personally and I really like this title 
 myself. The control is very easy and I like it. I often just lay off the gas a bit coming into 
 turns and usually only resort to the brakes on really tight turns and that seems to work pretty 
 well here overall once you get a feel for how the cars handle.
  
  It's looks great, sounds decent, is easy enough to be fun for anyone and features Volkswagen Beetles, 
 Golfs, etc. What's not to love? But wait! There's more! As of this writing, the game's price just 
 dropped to five US dollars on Valve's Steam! That's right, just 5 bucks for some good arcade racing 
 fun. So what are you waiting for? Get outta here and go grab yourself a copy if you enjoy arcade 
 racing. I think you'll find it fun too.
  
  Even if you don't have Steam (which I think you should!) go to www. steampowered. com and grab the 
 small download so you can purchase this online if it sounds like something you too would enjoy. 
 Steam is goodness and if you haven't seen it yourself now's a great time to do so.
  
  I should add that I did not race online and given the game's age and lackluster reviews I would 
 not expect to find any or many onling games going but you never know. There's a lot of Steam users 
 out there and when something like this hits just 5 bucks some are bound to grab it and maybe a 
 few will go online. But get this for the single player fun unless you want to do some LAN racing 
 at home with friends or family. The cost per seat sure is cheap here and then nobody can complain 
 about level of challenge anymore beyond who's got the skills and who don't.
  
  As far as I am concerned there is no doubt about it. GTI Racing is freakingruvin! Enjoy the ride! 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
