-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: GT Legends
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/gtlegends/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Best-looking cars in PC racing.
 Hypercomplex, scalable physics modeling.
 Enveloping, sophisticated audio.
 Oodles of options.
 Who knew? Vintage cars are &quot;da bomb&quot;.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Potential program instability.
 No rain races.
 Requires high-end computing power.
 Car unlocking routine won't appeal to some.
 Reduced damage not as much fun .
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 17, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.5, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 764 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Viva Media
Developer: SimBin
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date:     Jan 23, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A joy to play and a real showpiece for the vintage cars it replicates, GT Legends is a great achievement 
 and a must-have for simulation addicts. 

  In spring of 2005, developer SimBin and publisher 10tacle Studios dragged the PC racing world back 
 to reality with the warmly received GTR: FIA GT Racing game. In a time when virtual vehicular competition 
 was moving inexorably in the opposite direction, GTR was a welcome respite for those who bled transmission 
 fluid and desperately wanted to pilot authentic cars on authentic tracks against authentic competition. 
 Less than a year later, SimBin and 10tacle return to the pavement with GTR's descendant, GT Legends, 
 a game that benefits from SimBin's typically superb physics treatment and attention to detail. 
 It also sports one very intriguing twist.  

          The view of the inside of your cockpit is almost as nice as the view outside.     

 
  Rather than following the crowd and throwing drivers behind the wheel of the latest high-tech 
 thoroughbreds, the game travels down a far different road. Effectively mimicking the FIA's current 
 real-life FIA-GTC-GT Historic Racing Championships, GT Legends takes a cue from Papyrus' Grand 
 Prix Legends and concerns itself wholly with vintage '60s and '70s racing machines. From tricked-out 
 water bugs like the Mini and Cortina to growling Shelbys, slick Porsches, and a variety of madly 
 powerful built-for-racing beasts, the game is a journey into the past on today's tracks. And it's 
 one hell of a ride.  

  Unlike GPL, which initially proved too difficult for so many players, and different from other 
 time-traveling racing games that plop you in glorified hovercrafts, GT Legends delivers a gritty, 
 entirely believable, and eminently scalable experience. When played at the most approachable of 
 its five difficulty levels, GT Legends is a great racing game for those who don't want to sweat 
 the details. But when undertaken at either of its two or three most challenging difficulty levels, 
 it's a truly impressive drive that doesn't keep you on the edge of your seat by being frustratingly 
 impossible (hello, GPL) , but rather by convincing you that you must treat your virtual car like 
 you would a real, live hunk of machinery.  

  It doesn't completely follow the Papyrus NASCAR Racing formula either. Magnificent and certainly 
 light years ahead of its competition at the time, the NASCAR Racing physics modeling engine now 
 seems somewhat rudimentary in comparison. Case in point -- any NASCAR Racing road course, where Papyrus' 
 excellent oval-based physics engineering seemed to evaporate under the weight of turn diversification. 
 Conversely, the physics behind GT Legends simply feels right. Everything makes sense. You don't 
 ever feel as if you're "on rails," but at the same time you never believe the designers sneaked 
 a little extra coding in there just to make things more difficult than they should be. And, if 
 you're driving well and you watch the replay closely from a TV view, you'll see your maneuvering 
 doesn't look at all out of place. In essence, GT Legends teaches you how to drive properly and 
 follow the rules of physics. If you don't, you won't win.  

  Drivers fortunate enough to have driven GTR will undoubtedly feel familiar with SimBin's physics 
 concept. However, this isn't GTR. These vintage cars are far removed from the vehicles on display 
 in last year's effort, and SimBin has adapted well. Perhaps most exciting is the game's added wheelspin. 
 Generally, cars from this era weren't equipped with nearly as much downforce as their modern counterparts, 
 and you'll notice it as you drift through turns and deal with the ominous feeling that you're not 
 quite one with the road as you blast down a high-speed straightaway. Naturally, as with any game 
 of this caliber, a supersmooth approach and careful modulation of acceleration and braking are 
 necessities. Moreover, you'll need to completely familiarize yourself with each circuit before 
 you stand a chance of winning.  

  Of course, the depth of wheelspin varies from car to car and class to class -- as do myriad other 
 factors. Luckily, SimBin is clearly adept at differentiating between each car. Indeed, some are 
 almost tortuous in their lack of corner-carving ability. Others are great through the turns but 
 simply don't have the horses to compete at top speeds. But that was the trade-off when these cars 
 ruled the road, and it is in the game, too. And if you're wondering who in their right mind would 
 even want to drive a Cortina, think again. The truth is that the game's smaller, less-powerful 
 sedans are some of the most fun, if just for their well-mannered behavior and engines that aren't 
 ridiculously overpowered. Indeed, you can go a long way in the "lesser" vehicles because they don't 
 tempt you to drive like a nutcase and they handle the turns so comparatively smoothly. Ultimately, 
 some will prefer them to the pricey fire-breathers. GT Legends is different from GTR in numerous 
 other ways, including its method of car selection. Race sim purists may not like it, but 10tacle 
 has opted for an unlocking routine that keeps all but two of the game's 70-plus vehicles under 
 wraps until certain races are won and championships championed. It's a slow process, too, which 
 will take most drivers several weeks or months (or more) to complete. A game this good probably 
 doesn't need this extra incentive/detraction, though each car is just so fine and so difficult 
 to win that doing so is a very pleasant experience.  

  But it does limit you. GT Legends funnels you down three paths. The first is the quick race, a 
 format that allows you to choose any of the game's 25 tracks (14 of which are variants of the 11 
 base circuits) and any of the game's cars. The catch? You first must unlock those tracks and cars 
 by winning credits in GT Legends' central component, the cup challenge. Not really a career, the 
 cup challenge consists of numerous multievent championships. These championships vary in size and 
 scope, sometimes featuring but a couple of short five-minute races or just a single class of car, 
 and other times taking you through a set of a half-dozen or more long or endurance events and placing 
 several car classes in the track simultaneously, just as is they do in the real-world FIA-GTC-GT 
 series.  

          Damage has been dramatically scaled back from GTR, but that shouldn't stop you from playing 
 bumper car.     

  The critical thing is that you'll never own and operate all or even the majority of the cars unless 
 you first succeed here. Moreover, success is not easy. Fortunately, the game does allow you to 
 select any of the difficulty levels each time you jump into a new challenge. So why won't everyone 
 simply pick "beginner" and blitz through all the challenges? The answer to that is because you 
 accumulate bigger and better winnings by choosing "semi pro" and "professional." And no, unlike 
 GTR, GT Legends does not incorporate a straight-up arcade mode, though its beginner setting is 
 not far off.  

  And that's not the only GTR staple that has been tossed in the dumper. You'll no longer have a 
 talking crew chief/spotter. You'll no longer contend with rain, a particularly troubling bit of 
 news for those who enjoy the slipping and sliding that results from wet pavement. And, for some 
 inexplicable reason, SimBin has seriously scaled back the game's damage modeling. Whereas GTR cars 
 would blow apart spectacularly in the event of a high-impact collision, GT Legends' autos lose 
 a headlight here and there or maybe a bumper. Perhaps 10tacle will change this sorry state of affairs 
 with a patch, but right now the sensation is rather dismal.     

   

  Also concerning is what happens when your car leaves the roadway. Like GTR and most other good 
 racing games, GT Legends is coded to allow cars to lift from the pavement if the situation warrants 
 it. You can see just that when you ride over a curb or brush too hard against an opponent. And 
 in instances of slight lifts, the four wheels appear to settle back on the ground correctly. But 
 if the contact is more severe and calls for your innocent machine to lift completely from the ground, 
 there's no telling where it will end up. We plowed a Mini into both a fellow racer and a wall and 
 were shocked to see it rise up like a Phoenix and float high into space. It returned to earth several 
 seconds later.  

          GT Legends offers a variety of driver perspectives to get up close and personal with the 
 bumper to bumper action.     

  Otherwise, with all its many effect and detail levels cranked and its resolution high, GT Legends 
 is easily one of the prettiest visual spectacles ever released into the PC racing world. The depiction 
 of each of the game's 11 storied raceways (Anderstorp, Dijon-Preois, Donington, Hockenheim, Imola, 
 Mondello Park, Magny-Cours, Monza, Nurburgring, Spa-Francorchamps, Zolder) is flat-out incredible. 
 And you'll have ample opportunity to check it out up close, because the game's bumper cam is about 
 a foot off the ground and picks up every nuance and all that hypercomplex curbing. Even the pavement 
 is gloriously detailed, thus resulting in a downright frightening sensation of speed.  

  The true stars of this visual feast are the cars themselves. Inside, you'll watch your animated 
 driver going about his chores, shifting when he should, gently turning the steering wheel or pulling 
 harder on it when an emergency arises, and shuffling his feet back and forth to work the pedals. 
 Outside, each exterior is completely unique, right on down to the racer's tape on the headlights 
 and assorted paint scuffs. There isn't a misplaced line or a less than perfectly smooth curve to 
 be found. The windows and paint jobs react perfectly to the sun or lack thereof, and the general 
 lighting is much improved over GTR.  

  The only potential downside -- and it's a big one for folks who don't have top-notch CPUs, memory, 
 and graphics cards -- is the sheer muscle needed to drive the game to its full visual potential. 
 If you crave 1024x768 or better resolution, a letterbox (widescreen) perspective, a full field 
 of cars, and nifty perks such as driver animations, swaying trees, and high-detail wheels, you 
 must go substantially above the  recommended  system requirements. Overlays (such as pit boards) 
 and effects (such as shadows) seem to deliver the biggest hits. It's a good thing then that the 
 game looks none too shoddy even with minimized details and effects. It's also a good thing that 
 SimBin provides such a deep and intelligent roster of graphic tweaks.  

  GT Legends' audio is both stunning and disappointing. On the upside, SimBin's depiction of engine 
 and associated car sounds is incredibly captivating. We were particularly impressed with the guttural, 
 throaty roar of muscle machines such as the Shelby Mustang. It's difficult to put sounds into words, 
 so let's just say that if you have one of these monsters coming up behind you, the raw power of 
 its engine notes alone may scare you off the track. Of course, you'll feel downright threatening 
 when you're at the wheel of one of these thunderous beasts. But engines are just a small part of 
 the game's aural landscape. Gearshifts are wonderfully mechanical and gritty. Tire scrub varies 
 from car to car and moment to moment, effectively translating the struggle between rubber and pavement. 
 Road noise is alternately harsh or comparatively smooth, depending on your vehicle and current 
 situation. And what vintage car would be complete without a variety of backfires and exhaust pops? 
 Furthermore, the game offers a thorough roster of individual audio adjustments and fully independent 
 control of virtually all the above elements.  

  Of course, we lamented the loss of GTR's helpful crew chief/spotter. Perhaps it's SimBin's way 
 of telling us that radio communication has no place in vintage vehicles. But we would have preferred 
 the option of utilizing his wisdom. You won't find a track announcer either, and you'll undoubtedly 
 be perplexed when you noiselessly bang doors with a competitor. Granted, the game delivers audible 
 wallops aplenty should you hit a wall or become involved in serious car-to-car contact, but silently 
 swapping paint is just weird.  

  And this may be just a symptom of a more pressing problem. To wit, the game's collision detection 
 seems slightly flawed. Again, there's no trouble whatsoever if you hit a fixed object or forcefully 
 smack another car. But if you're merely bumping your rivals, you may not be bumping at all. We 
 encountered several instances when our front end appeared to "merge" through the back end of another 
 vehicle rather than bounce off it. At least, it certainly looked that way from the bumper cam. 
 This might explain the fact that we were consistently able to barge into turns with cars all around, 
 and emerge with nary a bruise.  

  Other more serious imperfections, at least in the North American version of the game, are apparent. 
 Most critical is the program's potential instability. Indeed, our normally solid PC crashed no 
 fewer than four times while running the game, a situation that does not appear isolated judging 
 by a quick check of several online GT Legends forums. Additionally, the publisher neglected to 
 include the multicharacter "online key" that's required to register for online racing. Again, a 
 check of the forums revealed that numerous copies of the game were sold without this key. Customer 
 support ultimately came to our rescue, but we shouldn't have been put in this situation in the 
 first place.  

  One final quibble concerns the game's documentation, or rather the lack of it. Considering the 
 magnitude and depth of GT Legends, the printed manual can be described as nothing other than skimpy. 
 It glosses over so many crucial areas, and barely touches upon garage setup schemes. On a more 
 positive note, the game lets you download user-uploaded setups for each of the various circuits. 
 It's a simple and welcome process that's accomplished without exiting the application, but the 
 manual doesn't even touch upon it. It does, however, go into some detail about multiplayer competition. 
 The game officially supports 16 human drivers through its online component, though we found several 
 races where up to 26 humans were successfully racing together. We joined several events and found 
 the experience quite satisfactory. Of course, real people are considerably more, ahemmistake-prone 
 than the game's believably human, but far more skillful, artificially intelligent drivers. But 
 the game itself flowed smoothly enough for us to want to revisit more online sessions in the future. 

          GT Legends packs are filled with an assortment of 60s and 70s racecars.     

  Speaking of the AI crowd, they're generally quite convincing. As in GTR, the AI tend to bunch 
 up too much before ultratight turns. They are also slow to a crawl if obstacles such as crashed 
 cars are on the track in front of them, when they could seemingly quite easily stick a couple of 
 wheels off the pavement to circumnavigate the situation. But they're otherwise very credible. They'll 
 dodge in and out of the draft, looking for openings. They'll seize upon opportunities to pass and 
 they'll work hard to avoid unnecessary collisions. In short, they don't exhibit a pack mentality. 
 One warning: You can no longer ramp up their aggression levels as you could in GTR. So you can 
 say goodbye to "psychotic" competition... unless you play online, of course.  

  Imperfect as it is, GT Legends is nevertheless a must-have for PC racing realism enthusiasts. Indeed, 
 given its many "detuning" options, it's also a great place for arcade-type racing fans to make 
 the move to the other side. You can put up with a few boo-boos when a game looks and drives this 
 good.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (27 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: RICHYIII
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 12, 2009 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Pros+: GT Legends is a great and addicting game. The graphics were top notch for 06' and the realism 
 is unlike most racing games now. The AI (computer racers) are realistic and don't cheat to catch 
 up. The most fun is to get out on the track with a Shelby Mustang and listen to the engine "purr" 
 The sound quality is amazing for Simbin. The controls/physics take some time to get used to and 
 to get the curves right, but once you've got it its fun to dominate. 
  
  Cons-: Takes a while to get used to the cars handling. Needs some American tracks. Damage is OK.
 
  
  Heres what it would give each part of GT Legends: (Scale 1-10)
  
  Graphics: 8
  Realism: 8
  Controls: 7.5
  Sound: 10 (Sounds just like the real car)
  Gameplay: 8.5
  Other: 
 You need a steering wheel Great game for the less "extreme" racer, it was worth $15 bucks.
  
  PC: Dell XPS 720, Intel Quad 2.4GHZ, 4GB RAM, 768MB GeForce 8800GTX, Logitech Nascar Racing 
 Wheel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rarson
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  It's a little-known fact among the PC gaming community that Simbin's racing games suck. Armchair 
 experts who have never put real rubber on real tarmac love to fawn over their games as if they 
 are the greatest racing simulations ever made. I'm happy to pronounce loud and clear wherever I 
 can that this is most certainly not the case. And I'm even happier to let everyone know that Simbin 
 continually releases the same game over and over again, and has been doing so since at least 1999, 
 so that other people can benefit from my mistake of buying the same game over a half dozen times.
 
  
  I know there will invariably be people out there who actually like outdated graphics and crappy 
 physics, so naturally Simbin will continue to sell games and continue to keep re-releasing the 
 same one over and over again. The unwarranted hype alone sells these games, since every idiot on 
 the planet with a PC and a racing wheel thinks they're a real driver if they can pilot this piece 
 of junk around the track. So if you insist on giving them your hard-earned money, I recommend buying 
 GT Legends. It is definitely the most compelling installment in the Sports Car GT/GTR/RACE series 
 (you have to love how they keep changing the name of the game to fool you into thinking it's a 
 new game) . It's also got the coolest cars of any of the games.
  
  I know, I've bought and played all of them. The graphics are pretty much the same throughout all 
 of the games (dating all the way back to 1999) , as are the physics. You might as well save your 
 cash and only buy the game once. Don't fall into Simbin's trap: when you see their name on the 
 game, you know that you're buying Sports Car GT all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmb34
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 13, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Man I love racing these old cars! On a whim I downloaded the demo before the game actually was 
 to be released and couldnt stop playing it . Of course i got it when it hit the shelves and have 
 not looked back since. This is the game that I come to when I need a realistic racing game, yeah 
 I like pgr3 too but this game has so much more depth and challenge. Graphically the car models 
 are awesome but the track enviroment is just ok but once the race starts you dont have time to 
 notice the scenery. You definately have to take one car one track at a time and put in some serious 
 laps to come out on top in this game, no 125mph drifting like pgr3 however you can drift though 
 be very carefull or you will spin out. The Ai is pretty well done also, every so often you will 
 witness the ai wrecking and running into each other, most racing games I play the ai runs perfect 
 laps and rarely wrecks. You will prpbably want at least a 6800gt video card to run this game near 
 top levels, I am currently playing on a 8800gts with the game maxed out and usually hover around 
 55fps and as high as 100 fps. On a side note I believe the gamespot score is just a tad low and 
 i would recommend this game to anyone who likes realistic racing. A must have title in my book. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dprince
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 11, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  This simulation is the epitome of vintage sports car racing with a European accent. With so many 
 cars and tracks the driving physics change with each challenge. The details are so high that the 
 windshield gets dirty as you drive. Couple this program with a G25 Logitech wheel and a good video 
 card and youll think youre in the car. The program takes advantage of the G25s clutch, brake 
 and force feedback wheel. It also supports the stick shift module. It allows enough difficulty 
 settings that any level of driver can compete but when playing in full realistic mode, youll 
 forget youre on a computer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dezapa
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  one of the greatest sounding driving games ive come across, when this game was first released, 
 i was like naw it wont play on my system (1.9ghz
  1gig ram nvidia 6600 256 mb graphics card. so i didnt bother buying it.
  so a year has passed 
 and i saw it in the bargain bin and said what the heck
  ill grab it for when i get a new pc. i actually couldent wait so i installed it.
  Wow the game 
 runs smooth almost on all high settings and even smoother with a few things ya really dont need 
 on like shadows, and full antialasing
  the tracks are very nice, but the sound is something else. it is one of the best engine sounds 
 ive heard in along time.... i havnt tried multiplayer yet as im still unlocking the cars and tracks, 
 but im sure it will be fine, i had my doubts after the first few races where there were only 8 
 cars on the track, and when i got to the 3rd stage, whammo the was 26 cars on the track
  i didnt go for qualifing so i was last and all i could see was , many cars ahead of me, i was like 
 oh boy heare comes some nasty lag..... i got to the first position without any stutters at all...... shocked 
 i am and happy that it ran so smooth. i can just imagine how this game runs on a good system, it 
 would be lickity split with no problems at all with everything cranked up on high. If you havnt 
 tried this game, and like 60s 70s cars, this game is for you
  the vettes and the stangs have real sounding engines. crank it up :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b3rra
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2006 6:37 am PT
Review:  When writing your review, remember to keep the language clean. Reviews must be 100 words minimum. 
 We encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later 
 on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage 
 you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy 
 and paste it into the posting box below.
  Thundering engines, realistic tracks, and detailed supercars all exist in the world of GTR, the 
 officially licensed simulation of the FIA GT racing series. Get behind the wheel of supercars from 
 all around the world, and then race simultaneously against up to 55 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maugt40
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2006 10:10 pm PT
Review:  I adore this game, just the physics modeling and cars modeling is so great, comming back to the 
 romantic racing era. We have Grand Prix Legends, GT Legends... How about Le Mans Legends ? Porsche 
 917&acute; s, GT40&acute; s, Porsche 908&acute; s, Ferrai 512m&acute; s, Matra Simca&acute; s, Porsche 
 956&acute; s, Porche 962&acute; s, Jaguar XJR11&acute; s, Mercedes C9&acute; s, Mazda&acute; s ? I strongly 
 believe true racing gamers would love it.
  
  at least an add-on to the game including the legendary all-time most favourite Porsche 917 in several 
 flavours including the Pink Pig and obviously the Gulf version, the hollywood one and the real 
 one !
  
  I&acute; m a racing simulator fan with no plenty of time for testing but I love racing simultaions. 
 From what I remember:
  
  Good
  
  - Cars modeling to the detail of crystal tint
  - Cars modeling to the deteail of underneath car detail
  - Handling rresonable reallistic and 
 fun, not entering into arcade.
  - Thanks God the Ford GT 40 is there.
  - Tracks and graphics are pretty good.
  - Suspension reaction pretty good, if you drive irresponsible 
 your car can get upsidedown !
  - The mini is there with several team choices, a cute-loved car that fortunately was not missed 
 as a LEGEND.
  - The Cobra GT is there, was one of our first Aurora FX type cars, well even before the Aurora 
 FX, I don&acute; t even reacall the name.
  
  Bad
  
  - More tracks needed, including Daytona and LeMans.
  - Probbaly some other cars: Ferraris, Jaguars, 
 Lolas, Chaparral
  - I always hate unlockable levels, &acute; cause I don&acute; t have much time to play, considering 
 I like to drive other 4-6 racing sims.
  
  If I add that normally I have a lot of work and I like to play rock guitar, unlockables are a .... I 
 won`t say it.
  
  Yes I know, thabks to Game Spot now I can unlock all tracks and cars, I love this site. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ForzaCC
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 28, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  A really good never-ending game. The true challenge is not only to win the races but also to successfully 
 climb in the different levels of difficulty. The lower levels are easy, but as soon as you start 
 moving into the middle and upwards level-wise things are instantly more demanding. No room for 
 sloppy driving or slamming the accelerator to the floor at all times. Here, skill and patience 
 are keywords if you want to grab one of those sought-after podium places. The variety of cars to 
 chose from is impressive, and every model behaves differently. In addition, you have almost endless 
 possibilities of tweaking your wheels in the garage to make them behave just the way you want them 
 to. The online-mode has everything you could ever wish for, and due to the popularity of the game 
 you always find some opponents that are up for a big battle on the strip. On top of all this you 
 have the extraordinary graphics to enjoy at every stage of the game.
  
  On the backside the only thing I can think of is that GT Legends does not have a rain mode. All 
 in all a fantastic game suited for all those wannabe racing-drivers out there. N. B. Keep in mind 
 that the cars offered - as the game-title implies - are legends, i. e. cars from the 60's, 70's 
 and 80's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brad11344
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 14, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to 60-70's cars racing game. this game is very good
  
  GAMEPLAY: well i didnt have the right requirements so it was kinda choppy around some parts of the 
 track but if u had the right one it would be very good cuz the part that did work it was excellant 
 and everything moved fast almost like real life. You can see the driver shift, and press on the gas 
 and brake you can also flash your lights, honk horn, and use the clutch Grahpics: OH MY GOD the 
 graphics were Very Good and realiztic in side the diffrent cars +100 cars, each dash board is diffrent 
 and you can see the simbol on the steering wheel .
  
  Sound is pretty good you can hear the screeching of the tires and the engine reving.
  
  OVERALL: 
 If u have the right requirments this game would be a blast.
  Online is fun when ur racing againts 6 or more other ppl racing for the finish lol well if i were 
 u for $20 this game is fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crxhf
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 10, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  One of the few good racing simulation games out there on the PC. Games like GTR and GTR2 and GT 
 legends are the best online and single player racing simulations that have true to life physics. 
 These games put NFS or arcade slash sims to shame. If you want good fun and straight up real racing 
 game get one of these or all of them. :) The single player is awsome like the GTR series. The cars 
 physics and engine sounds are so real and makes it even 100 times better using a wheel and pedal 
 setup. I have never found a game on the PC until these came out that would satisfiy my need for 
 a real racing sim. Either its autocrossing at Sebring or at home these games bring it so close 
 to being there. So many things to adjust and fine tune and really do effect performance or handling 
 on the tracks. Speaking of the tracks they are to the T as far as what they look like in real life. 
 Always seeing the turn in point and apex and exiting when driving in these games makes this so 
 fun. Playing online is so great. I love this game. I stayed up all night until 6am. I really don't 
 have to much to say bad about this game. The grahpics are pretty good and the sounds are very detailed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robmuzz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 26, 2006 3:37 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing computer games for well over 25 years. being impressed and let-down by each 
 as they come and go. A passion of mine has been driving games. From Night Driver on the early Atari 
 console. To the amazing for its time 16k (yes less than your average icon file! ) Pole Position.
 
  
  GT Legends offers so many features - like adjustable seat positions , and little touches - like 
 exhaust smoke under acceleration... going into them all here would take more time and space that 
 I have.
  
  When used with Track-IR from Naturalpoint, and a good wheel - I use a Driving-Force Pro from Logitec 
 - It is an experience like no other!
  
  Graphically, I think it stands alone, way out in-front of anything in its genre.
  You only need 
 to do a Google Image search for proof, also there are many good screen-shots out there, if you 
 need further evidence.
  
  If you are looking for a realistic driving sim - not arcade racer... GTL is a must. - Having said 
 that, with the controls set-up by somebody who knows the game, it has all the usual help, to get 
 the freshest novice racing in no time.
  
  Pros: Supported well by the on-line community, giving it almost infinite appeal!
  
  Cons: The 
 Star-force protection has given a lot of people a real head-ache. Especially after re-installation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xforbes
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Most Realistic and immersive car racing games out there. I have already played over 100hrs. Defenitly 
 need a wheel!! 
  What a great game this turned out to be. I saw it at my local game shop here in Australia and saw 
 it had some wicked '70s touring and race cars on offer. It was only 50 AUD too, which was a major 
 bonus. I loaded it up not expecting much with such a low price tag, but was pleasently surprised 
 when I found a real gem of the racing game world. The driving physics are intense, but yet fully 
 customisable. They are so spot on it feels like you really sre driving a replica of the car you 
 see. You can change this at anytime through the game. Take the online experience for example. If 
 you jump into an easy server you can fling youre car into corners with relative ease and no worries, 
 but jump into a Professional serve and things change. You literally wrestle with the car to get 
 it around the track, especially with the steering wheel, which is esential. It gives you a real 
 sense of achivement for not onlu completing the race but completing the lap. Although this may 
 only appeal to hardcore drivers, it is actually quite fun. The online community is great with plenty 
 of games and not too many knobs looking for a crash. The graphics are spot on with the replays 
 looking fantastic. Have a look at my x-fre screenshots for examples. The sounds of the cars is 
 just great with some of the old school V8 engines. The PAntera and GT40 sound amazing. Overall 
 i would say that this is the hit from nowhere, of the year. IT is a great game which is dominating 
 my computing time at the moment. I urge everybody who enjoys a good racing title to buy it and 
 help to grow the online community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brewer74
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 26, 2006 12:33 am PT
Review:  What a great game this turned out to be. I saw it at my local game shop here in Australia and saw 
 it had some wicked '70s touring and race cars on offer. It was only 50 AUD too, which was a major 
 bonus. I loaded it up not expecting much with such a low price tag, but was pleasently surprised 
 when I found a real gem of the racing game world. The driving physics are intense, but yet fully 
 customisable. They are so spot on it feels like you really sre driving a replica of the car you 
 see. You can change this at anytime through the game. Take the online experience for example. If 
 you jump into an easy server you can fling youre car into corners with relative ease and no worries, 
 but jump into a Professional serve and things change. You literally wrestle with the car to get 
 it around the track, especially with the steering wheel, which is esential. It gives you a real 
 sense of achivement for not onlu completing the race but completing the lap. Although this may 
 only appeal to hardcore drivers, it is actually quite fun. The online community is great with plenty 
 of games and not too many knobs looking for a crash. The graphics are spot on with the replays 
 looking fantastic. Have a look at my x-fre screenshots for examples. The sounds of the cars is 
 just great with some of the old school V8 engines. The PAntera and GT40 sound amazing. Overall 
 i would say that this is the hit from nowhere, of the year. IT is a great game which is dominating 
 my computing time at the moment. I urge everybody who enjoys a good racing title to buy it and 
 help to grow the online community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpitLead
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, this is a solid game. It's fun to play yet challenging. I think Simbin is not very 
 far from having an excellent game with a few tweaks. The sound quality is superb. I love to hear 
 the big block muscle cars throaty growl and the higher pitched European GT cars with their distinctive 
 whine. And each car has a unique sound. Nicely done. The graphics are very good. Tire skid marks 
 are left on the track, rubber tire smoke lingers in the air, car detail is crisp... it's all good. 
 There's a nice mix of tracks which keeps things interesting. There's also an ample collection of 
 cars to drive some of which must be unlocked to drive but others you can simply buy if you have 
 collected enough credits (cash) . And the driving physics seem to be fairly spot on for realism. 
 This keeps game play interesting enough. Some of the early cup races can take as long as 25-30 
 minutes to complete which can get a little long but then again part of racing is to maintain focus 
 throughout and finish in the top places. As I read in another review, more often than not I don't 
 place very high in the qualifying rounds ending up in the middle or bottom third yet in the actual 
 race I do quite well easily passing cars on the first lap. Simbin has a range of difficulty settings 
 to ratchet up game play and the realism for some replay value. A few gripes I have are that damage 
 in the game is really inconsequential for the most part and is not very realistic. Slamming into 
 a wall at 80 mph results in a modestly dented fender and bumper with a slight pull in steering. 
 There's no penalty of having to pay to repair the damage. This would keep me more honest in my 
 racing. As it is, it lends itself to more of an arcade feel even though the driving physics are 
 realistic. Also, it would add a much deeper element to the game to be able to buy upgrade parts 
 to improve performance. The game only allows one to tweak tire pressure, braking balance, toe-in, 
 suspension spring load and some other items. This is all well and good but not being a motorhead 
 I usually pass on these items yet being able to buy a lightweight carbon hood or upgraded transmission 
 suits my gameplay style better. There are no options at all for any car upgrades. One big complaint 
 I have, and this has been true for nearly ALL racing games I've played is that the animated steering 
 by the driving is very jerky and not realistic at all. Will somebody please fix this by smoothing 
 it out. It's so annoying I always choose my view to be in chase mode so I don't have to see the 
 steering wheel move in herky-jerky fashion. Overall though it's a thoroughly enjoyable game with 
 good driving physics, nice cars and graphics and an entertaining sound track. It's well worth the 
 money. My hope is that Simbin will release a follow on game or expansion pack to provide some of 
 the noted gaming improvements. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: olipog
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 27, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  you start off with only a couple of cars to choose from, both of which are very low powered-a mini 
 or a cortina. You may think that these will be boring to drive, as are low poweres cars in games 
 such as the gran tourismo series, but youd be wrong. Unlike the monsters later in the game, theyre 
 grippy, and you dont have to be delicate and gentle -you can throw them bout and have some fun 
 pulling off audacious manouvres, great fun. Later in the game, you get super-light chassis, with 
 a giant engine plonked on top, such as the porsche 911 series cars, which light up their tires 
 so easily, and throttle control must be extremely precise, otherwise you risk huge oversteer as 
 you accelerate through a corner-often, in these cars, you will find yourself hurtling towards corners 
 at what seems impossibly high speeds, so you brake, and fall way short of the corner-its extremely 
 hard to judge their braking and accelerating power
  overall, the game, although in its later stages high skill is required, provides something for 
 everyone, from fun and easy to drive minis to dangerously fast and hard to drive bmws and porsches, 
 a brilliant game, with a few graphical glitches, but well worth buying (but for gods sake buy a 
 proper controller or wheel-you'll soon start hitting the keyboard if you dont) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhiteKnite6
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 16, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  It's difficult to write an intelligent review when I'm so excited by this ground-breaking simulation. 
 I'll shy away from performance issues, menus, and stability issues, and stick to the heart and 
 soul of this sim -- the driving.
  
  The best way for me to clarify the experience of being behind the wheel in GT Legends is to say 
 this: all discussion of driving models, and G-force, and that elusive "in-car feel" falls happily 
 by the wayside to be replaced by a silly grin as you occupy the virtual cockpit of your very first 
 car (the mini cooper) . Papyrus' Nascar Racing series made you go, "Oh, I think I get it! Yeah, 
 I can do this ... great driving model!" TOCA 3 makes you ask rhetorically, "How can they do this 
 with so many cars?" GTL makes you shut up and pay attention to the road, because you are convinced 
 you're in a race car. 
  
  At first I was lamenting the fact that I'd be months away from driving some of the more exciting 
 cars in the simulation, because the program makes you earn them through winning or placing well 
 in tournaments. But then I realized two things: first, I needed the practice before I could really 
 enjoy driving those fire-breathing beasts, and second, driving any car in this game is just so 
 much fun!
  
  A word about scalable difficulty: GTL is absolutely the best I've seen in this category. There 
 are five levels from Novice to Professional. All are drivable from the start, but good luck winning 
 on the Pro level without a substantial investment in laps! The only gripe I have here is that you 
 can't separate out the accuracy of the driving model from the performance of the other drivers. 
 I other words, you can't race against mediocre computer opponents with the most realistic driving 
 model turned on -- both these features scale upward together. Oh, well!
  
  Now I come to my favorite part -- the start. How many of you experienced sim racers have had to 
 restart your races time and again in a frustrating loop of race starts? In NASCAR? In GPL? Even 
 the TOCA series? Cars inexplicably bashing into each other, and you completely incapable of avoiding 
 a wreck as your car squeals and slides toward turn one. Too slow? You're rammed from behind. Too 
 fast? You eat the pipes of the guy in front. Well, I'm happy to inform you that, at long last, 
 you will be able to start races just once. The auto clutch works flawlessly, and scedes no advantage 
 to either player or computer drivers. Thank God! 
  
  To sum it up, this is the best racing simulation available today, and it goes for $20! My advice 
 to all of you good people out there is to race right out and buy it! You'll thank me. You'll thank 
 SimBin. Or maybe you'll be too busy driving.
  
  PS Get a force feedback steering wheel. It's a must for this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cvearl
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  This is one hell of a great Racing Sim! One of the best I have had the pleasure of playing with 
 only a few minor flaws.
  
  GT Legends probably needs no introduction so I will refrain from being long winded with it. Simply 
 put its racing Vintage 60s and 70s cars on Authentic Tracks from various locations around the 
 world.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The usual fare for a racing game.
  There are Quick Race and Cup Challenge (quazi-career) modes. Quick Race will only let you drive 
 tracks and cars you have earned or unlocked. Some might not like that but personally for me; it 
 gives the game a purpose to keep racing. Cup Challenges are fun and come complete with practice 
 laps, qualifying laps and then of course the actual race. The cars feel, sound and look fantastic. 
 Yes I said Feel. For those lucky enough to own a decent Force Feedback Wheel and Pedals, you know 
 what I am talking about here. The cars can be raced from all kinds of perspectives. Cockpit, Chase, 
 Bumper and so on. Especially cool is being able to quickly adjust your SEAT so that you are closer 
 to the Window and higher up if you want a better view of the track from inside the cockpit. The 
 Cup Challenges require you to place in the top 3 of a given race to advance to the next track set 
 and possible cars. There appear to be a lot of cars and tracks too. Even the starting car, the 
 Austin Mini, is an absolute BLAST to drive and sprint with. For the truly hardcore you can mess 
 with a lot of aspects of the cars mechanical setups from track to track. Otherwise it works pretty 
 well with the default setups.
  
  GRAPHICS: Great
  Not perfect in some places but very SOLID and believable! Closest to Photo-realistic I have ever 
 seen if you can play it with things maxed out or even just at HIGH detail modes. Especially the 
 cars! I play on an ATHLON 64 3200+ with a 7800GT video card and at 1280x960 with 4xAA I float between 
 50 and 85 fps depending on how many cars are near me. But pretty much always feels silky smooth 
 even with large numbers of cars around.
  
  SOUND: Fantastic
  Best in a racing sim yet that I have seen. Even with just regular Stereo Speakers or headphones 
 I am amazed. My favorite part about the sound is that I can dump my favorite MP3s in the MUSIC 
 folder and it plays them when I drive or watch Replays. Ahh taking the inside of the turn from 
 some schmuck while listening to some Nickelback or Breakin Benjamin is my idea of a relaxing drive! 
 *Grin*
  
  MISC: 
  The replays are incredibly well done and the best part is that it always records them for you and 
 stores them for you to view later. But if you are driving and want to watch the last 60 seconds 
 you just hit R. Its almost as much fun watching your hot laps with your own music as it is to 
 actually play the damn game.
  
  FAULTS: Few if any.
  - Somehow they forgot to add sounds from rubbing or touching other cars. While you can sure feel 
 it in the Wheel and see it from the outside with sparks and all that, you do not hear the impact. 
 This takes away from the realism a little. You should hear paint scraping or metal moaning. But 
 this is minor.
  - Damage is a little unforgiving. So you dont drive with as much fear as you should.
  - In qualifying 
 I find the other drivers are stupidly fast. Meaning that how they drive in the actual RACE is not 
 how they drove in the qualifier. How is it that out of 24 cars I only place 18th in qualifying 
 (provided I had the best lap of my life) and then I win an 8 lap race with 15 seconds between me 
 and the 2nd place driver? That needs to be changed.
  - Does not have rain or other weather effects. But I never really wanted that anyway.
  
  I 
 completely recommend this game. Masterpiece!
  
  C. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ranger_x8b
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 19, 2006 11:52 am PT
Review:  Wow... simply wow... SimBin did it again. They have left me virtually speechless after playing 
 an hour of GT Legends. This racing sim is pretty much flawless. I don't know how to explain it, 
 but I'll try.
  
  Gameplay - There is nothing bad I can point out about the gameplay. The cars handle their own ways 
 perfectly. Smaller cars have more agility, while bulkier cars have more power and less agility. 
 With a force feedback wheel, you'll feel like your actually driving a real hot rod. The AI can 
 be setup to your liking. They go from pushovers to speed demons and passive to aggressive. I don't 
 know what else to say... It's perfect.
  
  Graphics - I had a puddle of drool on my lap after watching one race. This game looks amazing... 
 that is if you have a beast of a computer. Cars look real, the tracks are lively, and the environment 
 works perfectly. Transition periods between day and night are emulated with perfection.
  
  Sound - Once again... Perfect. The engines are tuned perfectly, tire screeches are cool... You 
 gotta play it to know what I'm talking about
  
  Value - You got normal quick races and multiplayer races like in every game. This time around, 
 the Cup Challenge mode was added. Finally, a game that makes you unlock tracks and cars and they 
 don't make it seem like a chore! There is no way you can get bored from this game. There was one 
 omission that made me a little sad, rain races. Don't know why it was taken out, but it's not that 
 big of a deal
  
  (gets down on hands and knees) I'm not worthy, SimBin, I'm not worthy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jd1680a
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 19, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  This is probably the one of the best racing games Ive played. Everything is so realistic. The sound 
 and feel of each car that you drive is all different and real. This game makes if feel like you 
 are really at a race track with the sounds of roaring engines.
  
  The game is very challenging for those do look for it. Different difficult settings for those who 
 enjoy play the game easy, or race it as if you were a professional.
  
  Graphics are good too. This game does require a good video card if you plan to race against more 
 then 10 or so cars. It might get some lag if not.
  
  Nice content on GT Legends. There are is a career mode that will unlock cars and tracks for you. 
 Its also the only way to earn money to buy more cars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RacinJason
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 19, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  GT Legends is the latest sim racing game by SimBin who also developed GTR FIA Racing. For those 
 of you who have been waiting for a good sim racing game that features great vintage race cars look 
 no further then GT Legends. 
  
  In GT Legends you will find all the commonplace things that are found in todays sim racing games. 
 The main mode of GT Legends is the Cup Challange, this serves pretty much as the career mode for 
 the game. There is also quick race, open practice, and multiplayer modes. In Cup Challange there 
 are 5 different cup challenges. Each cup challange has a number of different races in it for you 
 to complete. As you progress through the game you will unlock the harder challenges which feature 
 faster cars and harder tracks. While that will be familar to anyone who has played a racing game 
 in the last few years where GT Legends really shines is when your racing your vintage race car. 
 The first thing you will notice is how great the cars look, and how awesome looking the cockpits 
 have been recreated. Then you pull out onto the track and experince the car physics which are top 
 notch. You will notice there is no soundtrack (unless you import MP3s) , and you don't need one when 
 listening to the awesome engine sound effects. Pretty soon you will be hooked, tuning your car 
 and racing your way through all the challenges so you can get out of that Mini and get into something 
 really cool. Like maybe a Ferrari 275 GTB, or a Ford GT40.
  
  GT Legends is a great looking game, even without all the visual effects turned on. As I mentioned 
 before the cars look great and are very detailed inside and out. The tracks, menus, and pretty 
 much everything looks really good. You will need a decent PC to if you want to turn all the visual 
 settings on high or up. While my system isn't top of the line it's not garbage either. While running 
 with 7 opponents I was having no problems, then when I got to my first 23 opponents race well... that 
 was a different story. The game was hardly playable when the race started because all the cars 
 were lined up on the starting grid and I was number 19 out of 24 cars. I was also on a track that 
 had alot of buildings and grandstands by the starting grid. 
  
  The sound is also top notch, the cars sound awesome. The music that plays during the menus is catchy 
 and very good. The only problem with the sound is that sometimes when going through menus or loading 
 a race the music will skips or repeats. That's the only glitch I've found in the game so far.
 
  
  GT Legends is a great game. It features solid vintage sim racing, great car physics, execellent 
 sound effects, it's budget priced, and I've had no stability issues, just that sound glitch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Everything about this game screams quality. From the amazing driving models and meticulous art 
 design to the fantastic lighting effects and superb sound this game is one that will draw you in 
 and keep you there for a long time.
  
  I am not really a huge fan of driving games but I have made an exception in this one's case. The 
 developers have taken a great game (GTR) and polished it, tweaked it, kicked it, ripped it, listened 
 to feedback and produced a really good and easily accesible game for everyone.
  
  Every race can be played on every level so everyone can have a chance at lifting a trophy. You 
 race for cash which allows you to buy bigger and better cars and gives you something to keep playing 
 for.
  
  One little gripe I do have though is that it seems harder to qualify than it actually does to win 
 a race. But this is a very minor point for me and one that you get over pretty quickly.
  
  If you are a fan of racing games and especially if you are old enough to remember some of these 
 cars then this could be the definitive racer for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: me2u2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 23, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  I was actually looking to get the new TOCA Race Driver 2006, but it hadn't made it to the shelves 
 yet. I picked this game up as something to try out my new Logitech WingMan Formula Force GP wheel, 
 and I'm not sorry I did.
  
  The first time I was put behind the wheel of the 'starter' car, an Austin Mini with a spiffy checked 
 top, I was hooked. From the automobiles I've tried so far, they each have their own feel and style 
 that give me the feeling of being in the seat.
  
  I'm still considering myself 'in the learning curve', as I don't have a lot of racing sim experience. 
 That said, I'm getting the feel for the cars and tracks, and I'll be online soon.
  
  I don't know how many checkered flags I'll bring home, but I'm going to enjoy the races, and that 
 makes this game a good value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knut-am
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 20, 2006 4:09 am PT
Review:  I agree with Gamespot's rewiew that this game didnt need to have all the unlocking of Cars and 
 tracks that the program fetures, the game is good enough to skip that part all together. but it 
 does have it's use as it obviously then follow your learning curve of the game witch are looong 
 and hard. the game difficoulty span from a hard arcade style gameplay on the medium difficoulty 
 levels and all the way up to a serious challenge in the harder levels. there is an novice/easy 
 mode as well, but it is not something that is worth playing for long, but suits probably the younger 
 ones and those that are not familiar with driving games of this sort. the game let you start off 
 your racing in lower engine specs for a reason though, evryone that play the game understand why 
 that is so. the lower spec cars are actually very fun to drive as a start off, they jump, bounce 
 and slide around corners with a mutch easyer feel to them then what you will experiece later in 
 the game with the muscle monsters wich are much more of a challenge to drive,, but o o so rewarding 
 when one first start to master this ancient brutes. each car feel distingtively different in both 
 handling and ability, and of course they all sound very different to eachother.
  
  The GTL graphics are a marvel to be hold as long as you have the hardware to pump it up without 
 stuttering the fps. it look "allmost" okay in 1024x780 on a older AMD 3000+ with an old ATI 9800PRO 
 graphics card and 1gb ram in about 50% detali level settings. however with this PC spec's you realy 
 need to limit the number of AI's on the track in order to keep the fps on a adequate level at all 
 times during a race. on my other test system: AMD 4400x2 with a ATI 1800XL graphics card and 2gb 
 ram, one can run the game in 1600x1200 or simular widescreen resulution with all the vital details 
 levels max up without any anoying loss of fps. on this pc specs the game and the thrill of close 
 "combat" racing truly make you yell HO-HOOO!!! in the dark corner of your home, or were ever you 
 sit and play (drive) .
  
  The Sound in the game is allmost fantastic,, well honestly,, comparing the sound of GT-L with the 
 sounds in some of the later arcade style games reasently released like the latest NFS games and 
 other "Juiced" games, the individual sound of eatch car in GT-L seem to come from another planet 
 quality wice. you get the destingt "outdoor" sounds of the Cab's and the weels on the track sounds 
 great wile adissional bumps and contact with other cars add to the compleate sensation. Remember 
 to set the number of played sound channels high enough in the option menu, or else some of the 
 sounds will not amurge,, and some gamers/rewiewers will not know that the sounds are actually there 
 ;-) .
  
  AI drivers in GTL are thankfully NOT flawless, they make errors like they would if they were humans 
 out on a real track and it give you the sensation of driving against cars that run on the same 
 track surface as you do and not some invisable railway track. The danger of having an accident 
 that is not coused by you doing all the errors just ad to the realism of the game more then it 
 anoy you if you are that unlucky in the first place. some ai drivers are better then others though, 
 so to win a longer race on the higher levels will take you some time to acomplish. the graphical 
 eventualities in the game are many and varied, there are no rain in the game..:- (, but night time 
 racing in the dark pose a challenge on its own, a little reckless driving and you knock out your 
 headlights and have to race in the lights of the other cars, in fast races on tricky tracks this 
 will come as a huge disadvantage (obviously) and is a good way of learning patience in your racing 
 and the need to stay in line, this of course favour the more hardcore racers and not the arcade 
 bangers that are used to give their trottle pedal the full treatment and their brakes a good rest. 
 in other words, GTL as a game i think mostly will please those that has a bit of "ice" in their 
 head and it reward patient driving skills the most. if one is used to win a race against the computer 
 by knocking the ai's off the track the chanses are that one will not win a lot of races in GTL 
 if any at all.
  
  In this times of bumper camera wiew's in Arcade's and easy racing games it is wonderfull to play 
 a game this good that has a decent driver wiew, with car instruments that actually work and look 
 this good. the feeling of actually sitting behind the weel in what looks to be a car and not a 
 sledge with your head in front (bumper wiew) are realy a good leap in the right direction for me 
 personaly and for others as well i beleve. the cocpits in high resulution, (need 256mb on your 
 graphics card) , are truly great to look at and do nothing but ad to the flavour of simulating you 
 actually being there smelling the gasoline and exaust. the cars move about on the track with very 
 belevable physics obviously calculated with a true mathematic game engine and not by a arcade style 
 drive engine with pre defined sliding physics incorporated into it (NFS type) . those games suits 
 the consolles best, as they are ment to be played on a hand held little pad within your finger 
 tips. GTL i think need a decent racing weel/pedal set. if you have a set with Clutch it is great, 
 but it do well with a normal kind of driving equipment as well, just not a gamepad or some other 
 rediculas controll method like the keyboard or whatever normal joystick/gamepad you may own. the 
 need for simultanious braking, throtteling and stearing adustments to controll your car on the 
 track become highly apparent on the higher simulation levels, and one there for need some sort 
 of gaming gear that let you perform all this axes comands simultaniously.
  
  So,, what are the bad parts of the game ? Well, the manual that comes with the game isnt not the 
 best, it does not explane in depth the adjusting posibilities in the car set up garage, for those 
 of us that has played the older Papyrus games like Nascar racing 2003 and simular, the setup mecanics 
 are more understandable without the deep manual resurch, but for a beginner it is just as easy 
 to download the setups online from within the setup menu in the game and learn to take it from 
 there. another downside i guess are the lack of different wether condissions, however the game 
 has absolutely marvelous dynamic lightning effects and some highly detailed graphics that way surpass 
 any driving game on sale to date.
  
  my conclution :: GT Legends are the best driving sim in the shops at the moment and a sure classic 
 to be played for years to come and i guess no game developer can do better then that until another 
 game come and top it off the 1'st place. FANTASTIC game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vipat
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2006 6:03 am PT
Review:  I bought this game after running across its review on the internet. Ive been looking for another 
 game to fill my pc racing void since nfsmw. And i have to say this definetly does it in style i 
 think the game is well put together in all aspects. After you get the patch which allows 36 player 
 online buckle your seatbelt and hold on!. I must say i was a little disapointed with the last real 
 sim Gran Turismo 4 i played. The driving felt a little over realistic and frustrating at times but 
 in this game i dont feel that you can get immersed in this game very easy. And a nice addition to 
 racing for the pc which has been lacking for sometime. The graphics look real nice but the game 
 can be a resource hog for lower end systems but it rewards a medium-high end system.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: evotuner05
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 16, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game after running across its review on the internet. Ive been looking for another 
 game to fill my pc racing void since nfsmw. And i have to say this definetly does it in style i 
 think the game is well put together in all aspects. After you get the patch which allows 36 player 
 online buckle your seatbelt and hold on!. I must say i was a little disapointed with the last real 
 sim Gran Turismo 4 i played. The driving felt a little over realistic and frustrating at times but 
 in this game i dont feel that you can get immersed in this game very easy. And a nice addition to 
 racing for the pc which has been lacking for sometime. The graphics look real nice but the game 
 can be a resource hog for lower end systems but it rewards a medium-high end system.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EssaregeeX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 24, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  After Seeing this game, it didnt occur to me that a game by some company that I have dever heard 
 of (but really, who ever heard of SimBin?) could produce a game this good. At first this game looked 
 like a Total mess, but after getting by the fact that this game was surprisingly fun, I actually 
 enjoyes it. This game is somewhat reseblent of the FOrza Motorsport games, only as I mentions without 
 the "forza" - the damage system feels a little like bumper cars. The game is really immersive, 
 good deep gameplay, nice selection of vehicles, very good graphics, exceptional AI as well. But 
 to really get into this game you would need a steering Wheel and pedals, that makes for a total 
 racing experiance. Thats pretty much all there is to say about this game, and if you like realistic 
 rascing sims, buy this game.
  
  GOOD: Okay price, realetiveley good racing enviornment, grapics, tracks, AI, originality, immersion.
 
  
  BAD: Srange physics - they feel somewhat low-grav. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gsharad007
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 24, 2006 9:41 am PT
Review:  it is really nice game. feels real good after the big names throw console clones made for babies 
 at u. would love to c this game hit it big time and keep on coming.
  
  would add another full review later this weekend when i really get to play this game. definately 
 looking forward to it. also it probably was the best time ti release it since non of the big games 
 are anywhere near release which could otherwise hide this little know game.
  
  hopefully i can tune its graphics a bit more to suit my oldish computer. i definately need a new 
 rig. this RDRAM mb can only get me this far. waiting for vista to be released b4 upgrading.
  
  this is one of those game u would love to pick up again like a month from now when u are bored 
 yet again of big names throwing **** games at us poor gamers. this game has real good replaybility 
 value. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
