-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: GTR 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/gtr2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Driving, crashing, and racing simply doesn't get much better than this.
 meticulously detailed tracks and cars.
 28-player online racing is fun and lag-free.
 massive tuning options.
 driving school is a great addition.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Hefty system requirements.
 qualifying seems inordinately hard.
 menu system needs a makeover.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  9, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.0, 25 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,911 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 10tacle Studios
Developer: SimBin
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date:     Sep 29, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite a slightly gentler learning curve, GTR 2 still demands the most out of your inner race driver. 
 

  The PC racing simulation category isn't what it once was. While the PC used to be home to a big 
 variety of classic, in-depth racing sim series, the ever-increasing power of game consoles and 
 the promise of more sales have led many would-be racing developers to abandon the PC altogether. 
 Consider SimBin's GTR 2, the sequel to 2005's GTR FIA Racing, a hearkening back to the good old 
 days of sim racing. It's an expansive and challenging sequel to one of the best racing games of 
 last year and, at its price, it remains one of the best bargains of the year for the PC.  

          Wave the green flag because it's time to go racing in GTR 2.     

  From a content standpoint, 
 GTR 2 isn't that much different from the original. The game still revolves around GT racing -- a 
 compelling mixture of multiclass sports cars from makers such as Ferrari, Porsche, TVR, Saleen, 
 and many more, all competing on a cosmopolitan lineup of real-life tracks from all over the world. 
 Additionally, the driving model, which so authentically captured the thrilling yet often twitchy 
 experience of driving a highly tuned sports car in the original GTR, is even more finely tuned 
 in the sequel. The lion's share of the game's improvements, then, can be seen in the slight planing 
 down of the original game's often steep learning curve.  

  The first and most obvious way the GTR developers have done this is through the driving school, 
 an expansive tutorial that has seemingly been designed to take you from the ground up -- from your 
 first moments in the car to competing tightly with the game's demanding artificially intelligent 
 drivers (or with up to 27 other players via the game's excellent online multiplayer racing) . Categories 
 covered in driving school include the basics, such as acceleration and braking, up through cornering 
 and overtaking, and finally, into section-by-section breakdowns of many of the tracks featured 
 in the game. Each category includes a text breakdown that covers the theory behind each racing 
 concept, as well as the specific goal you need to accomplish in order to pass that particular challenge. 
 You can also practice the challenge before an "official" attempt against the ghost car or watch 
 the ghost car's lap to view proper braking or turn-in points, which is essential for some of the 
 trickier challenges. By beating challenges, you unlock a host of restricted-class championships 
 that are graded in difficulty levels; some of the first championships you open are quite easy and 
 serve as an excellent introduction to the kind of intense on-track action that forms the heart 
 of the game. Those new to the series are well served by simply going through the basic tutorials 
 in driving school, unlocking a few championships and competing in a few of these early series. 
 In all, if you go so far as to compete in all 142 challenges found in GTR 2, you'll be well on 
 your way to mastering the fundamentals of driving quickly and have a good idea of how the many 
 tracks found in the game operate.  

  Once you're done with the tutorials and have built up a heap of early-game confidence, you'll find 
 a number of game modes and options in GTR 2 just waiting to beat you down and bring you back to 
 earth. Open practice and time trial are two good ways to improve your lap time. The inclusion of 
 a color-coded racing line feature similar to that found in Forza Motorsport is a nice touch -- though 
 the one found in GTR 2 isn't as dynamic as the feature in Forza. As a result, you'll often find 
 points where you can "fudge" the race line in order to gain a few extra tenths. The same can be 
 said for the turn indicator signs that pop up when turning laps, which also suggest the gear you 
 should be in to attack a particular corner. Many times you can safely ignore the recommended gear 
 in favor of what you know works better in a particular car.  

          With multiple car classes available, you'll easily find a ride to suit your speed.     
 

  GTR 2's three main racing modes are race weekend, championships, and 24-hour race. A race weekend 
 is a single event, complete with multiple practice and qualifying rounds, as well as the actual 
 race itself. Championship mode includes both the 2003 and 2004 official FIA GT seasons, as well 
 as the custom championships you open up by completing challenges in the driving school. New for 
 GTR 2 are the 24-hour races on tracks such as Spa-Franchorchamps, Monza, and China's Zuhai circuit. 
 You can scale down these grueling endurance races to a more manageable size (say one or three hours) 
 and still experience the same gradual day-to-night transition you would in a 24-hour race.  

  There are three difficulty levels to choose from -- novice, semi-pro, and simulation. And, as you 
 may expect, the difference in handling between novice and simulation is dramatic. At the novice 
 level, every option from antilock braking to various aids, such as stability and braking assists, 
 are available to be toggled on and off at your discretion. The semi-pro level turns off most of 
 these aids but leaves traction control and your ABS system intact. The simulation level of difficulty 
 grays out all options and leaves you on the asphalt with only your skill behind the wheel (and 
 whatever deity you pray to) to count on.     

  And it's there -- on the asphalt -- that you feel the full brunt of the GTR 2 experience. As in the 
 last game, with all aids disengaged, this is one of the more thrilling and challenging racing experiences 
 you can have. The cockpit view, which features impressively detailed and authentic interiors for 
 every car in the game, puts you in the driver's seat, and lap after lap, you are jostled and thrown 
 around tracks at ludicrous speeds. Every shake and wobble of your car is felt and demands your 
 full attention. Whether playing the game with a joystick or with a wheel and pedal combination 
 (or, heaven forbid, with a keyboard) , you find yourself consistently balanced on a knife's edge, 
 trying to pull out the last remaining ounce of speed from your car while fighting against your 
 rapidly degrading tires. A hair too much tire on the curb or just slightly too steep an angle into 
 a corner can spell disaster, such as a spin into the grass or, worse, a full-on collision with 
 the wall -- where you'll experience the game's sophisticated damage modeling.  

          Think you're man enough to tackle Eau Rouge at top speed?     

  In fact, the biggest 
 credit to GTR 2's refined driving model is that, as a race goes on, you can feel the nature of 
 the car's handling change. Just before you're due for a pit stop, for example, you'll find yourself 
 sliding to the outside of corners you normally could attack at full clip at the beginning of the 
 race, as your worn-out tires begin to work against you. Also, watch your rearview mirrors because 
 the game's smart AI will be apt to pounce on you after the slightest mistake. In fact, if there 
 is a criticism of GTR 2's otherwise sterling approach to driving sims, it's that, even with its 
 concessions toward making the series more approachable for rookies, it's still a tough slog to 
 get on the podium. Even the easier custom championships require a good deal of skill and concentration 
 to win, which isn't necessarily a bad thing -- as long as you've set your expectations as such.  
 

  Part and parcel with a driving sim game comes a wealth of tuning options for your ride, and GTR 
 2 absolutely does not skimp here. Everything from fuel strategy to tire pressure, and from springs 
 and camber to toe-in and the anti-roll bar, is adjustable in the game. If you're an experienced 
 virtual gearhead, the wealth of options here will certainly be a boon. For the novice, it will 
 likely seem overwhelming. Thank goodness, then, that the game's online options will let you download 
 user-created sample setups that are organized by track. With a little digging, you can likely find 
 a speedy setup for whatever car you are currently driving; the ability to rate these configurations 
 is also a handy filter for separating the setup wheat from the chaff. Despite this option, however, 
 qualifying still seems inordinately difficult in the game. Even with a tight setup and a good deal 
 of practice on the track, you'll find it tough to place in the upper echelon of cars when the time 
 comes to drop the green flag.  

  The cars and tracks found in the game are expertly modeled, and on a mid- to high-end computer, 
 you'll enjoy seeing the wealth of detail on display on the tracks. The game's track models are 
 wonderful, capturing the high notes of each -- Eau Rouge at Spa, the Parabolica at Monza, and the 
 downhill slide into the never-ending front straight at Barcelona. They also provide enough small 
 details, such as flag-waving race officials and a long train of spectators that line the long straight 
 at Spa, to keep you engaged. The trade-off for all of this quality is that, just as with the last 
 GTR, you'll need a hefty setup to get the game running at a respectable clip. Even with the 3.20GHz/2GB 
 RAM machine we played the game on, we encountered enough frame-rate issues at the default setting 
 to give us concern -- it's difficult to imagine the game being very playable at the minimum system 
 requirements of 1.8GHz/512MB RAM. It's also worth pointing out that the series is due for a presentation 
 makeover because the menu system seems largely unchanged from the previous GTR, which is to say 
 it's a bit ugly and confusing.  

          Wheel-to-wheel action doesn't get much better than this.     

  While you don't necessarily 
 expect a wealth of variety in a racing game's sound presentation, GTR 2 has some audio treats for 
 the attentive listener. First, the sound of the car engines is wonderful, from the gentle, slurring 
 purr of a G3-class Porsche, to the furious, and frankly a bit scary, wail of a TVR T400R. But the 
 fun doesn't stop there. When tearing down the long straight at high speeds, you'll hear the sounds 
 of dust and debris minutely clanking against the bottom of the car; in the turns, you'll notice 
 the protesting squeal of tires as they strain against your steering input; and if you run wide 
 in a turn, your teeth will chatter as your car loudly bumps over the curbing. Whether listening 
 in on headphones or with your PC speakers cranked nice and loud, the game's audio presentation 
 simply transports you that much further into the car. Even the musical soundtrack isn't that bad, 
 depending on your tolerance for the kind of European techno-pop featured in the previous GTR game. 

  The ability to skip directly past the first GTR game and start with GTR 2 is a testament to this 
 game's quality and its slightly gentler learning curve. Once on the track, though, GTR 2 unapologetically 
 demands your full attention as a participant, which is exactly what a highly tuned and deep racing 
 sim should do. Provided you've got the PC horsepower to run it, this game's level of quality and 
 discount price point practically scream for your attention.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (80 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: rarson
Rating: 1
Date: Dec 30, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Okay, remember Sports Car GT (circa 1999) ? How about GTR? GT Legends? RACE? This is the same game. 
 Yup, it's pretty much exactly like Simbin's first game that was made almost ten years ago.
  
  What's even worse though is it's a carbon copy of the original GTR game, the new car models 
 being not even as cool as the ones in GT Legends (which made that game almost worth the purchase, 
 but not quite) . Not only is it a simple update of GTR (not nearly a full, upgraded sequel) , it's 
 a USELESS update!
  
  If you've bought Sports Car GT, GTR, RACE, RACE'07, GT Legends, or GTR Evolution, you've already 
 bought this game. Hell, I've even purchased this game multiple times, since it came with RACE '07, 
 and it wasn't even worth buying once.
  
  I paid $30 for Sports Car GT when it was first released (almost ten years ago) , and since then, 
 Simbin has released half a dozen more games that all use the same tired game engine, and none of 
 them have significantly improved on the previous titles AT ALL. They all have pretty much the same 
 graphics (which were awesome in 1999, but not so much in 2008) , the same sucky physics (yes, the 
 physics in this game do suck, and if you think they don't then you need to try driving a real car 
 on a real track) , and the same BORING gameplay. This is honestly the most boring racing game I've 
 ever played.
  
  I cannot understand how racing sim fans became so enamored with this game. All the mods in the 
 world cannot save the lackluster graphics and lame physics. GT4, a game that I'm not that particularly 
 fond of, is both more accurate in the physics department (which is sad, GT4 physics suck too) and 
 more fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlton999
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2008 10:35 pm PT
Review:  I found GTR for $6.00 at target three weeks ago and played it with my joy stick. a week later i 
 bought Logitech's Momo racing wheel. shortly after i discovered rFactor then decided that i wanted 
 GTR2. I have been playing GTR2 and rFactor back to back for the last two weeks. I have to give 
 the edge to GTR2. both games are very fun and they have a huge support system of fans that create 
 cars and race tracks. I can safely say that i am obsessed. the AI still kicks my butt when i race, 
 but i play it just for the driving. go buy this game if your into cars and racing. i taught my 
 7 year old niece how to play this game and she can get all the way around a track without crashing. 
 I have downloaded extra tracks and cars made by crazed GTR fans, these guys are making some really 
 good stuff. so far i have raced on just about every race track that i have seen on TV, its almost 
 like the real thing. This game rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dainsanereview
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  gtr2 racing gives u the experince of rideing. life is a highway i wanna ride it all night long.
 
  that song is to catchy sorry. this game kinda gives u the experince of riding like a nascar/street 
 racer
  it has mclarens porsches saleens lambroghinis and other cars. the graphics in this game has got 
 to be one of the best graphics on pc i have seen in my life i mean it accaully feel life your in 
 the game not in the screen but on the race track. control now the control is really bad it takes 
 pratice at first but then u get used to it u also have to brake really hard in this game and watch 
 your turns. sound the sounds like.
  life is a highway i wanna ride it all night long.
  ok ill stop. the sound is really good with my tol logitech speakers. bottom line is this game is 
 great.
  graphics 10
  control 5
  gameplay 10
  sound 10.
  great game love the lamboghini.
  i give it a 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_hodges
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 5, 2008 7:21 am PT
Review:  Approaching the 2 year mark, GTR 2 is still a prime example for the future of simracing. With a 
 good machine, GTR 2 looks great, simulates real world FIA GT physics very well, and has endless 
 replayability with the mods, add-on tracks, and many misc files that are available for download. 
 More current seasons, like the 2006 FIA GT are available, along with an ALMS 2007 add-on.
  
  What makes GTR 2 special is the amount of leagues and communities that support GTR 2. Check 
 out www. race2play. com and www. nogripracing. com. Many downloads are available from these sites, 
 free to the user. These are very professionally run sites that offer many different types of races 
 for GTR 2 and other sims.
  
  Despite the recent release of GTR Evo, GTR 2 will carry on strong. Evo is not intended to be a 
 replacement for GTR 2. They will both be able to live alongside each other offering different types 
 of racing. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: senjutsu
Rating: 1
Date: May 29, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  As a gran turismo fan, I just CANNOT say that this game is good. It's not realistic AT ALL. You 
 can turn your wheel while bracking without loosing control (ever) , you can turn hyper fast at lower 
 speed (wich is, for this game, pretty high) without loosing control, etc. You just CANNOT loose 
 control in this game, and you CANNOT drift at all! (or almost not) . This game is not a simulation 
 racing game, it's a mix of arcade racing and "sim wanna be".
  
  The graphics are horrible but the game popped in 2k6 so it's normal I suppose (I think GT4's graphics 
 are better) . The cockpit view would be nice (I love cockpit views) but the angle isn't good, you 
 can't see the road pretty well so it's not a good cockpit view, even if this seem to be the main 
 view in the game.
  
  The music, I'm not even sure there is music in the game. I played 5 minutes and was frustrated 
 seeing how the game is not realistic at all.
  
  so? 
  
  If you like SIM games, don't buy it. If you want to play SIM games but you find them too hard, 
 play this game and you'll surely love it. If you like arcade racing, don't go near this game.
 
  
  ps: I really hated playing this game. Even at the maximum realisticness settings (yes you can set 
 this) . Play Gran Turismo instead of this, it's way better (but you need a ps2/3) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTR2addict
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 1, 2008 10:56 am PT
Review:  I believe that there is no other game like this, coupled with a play seats evo, a couple of buttkickers, 
 and a 7.1 surround sound system, with a logitech G25 racing wheel... you cant avoid feeling like 
 you are IN the game, racing against some of the toughest AI that ever made it into a game.
  
  The driving school makes it easier for beginners, though the game is still very tough, even 
 with the bonus of the school... but thats one of the best aspects of the game, though the qualifying 
 sessions are quite hard, for example, you will be put down to like 10th position in the qualifying, 
 though you will completely smash the opposition in the race itself, i think thats severely unbalanced, 
 and simbin could've taken some more time to fix that.
  
  Another great feature of this game is how moddable it is, though the original game only recreates 
 the 2003/04 seasons, there are countless mods (which i have) to recreate the 05/6/7 seasons, giving 
 the game an even bigger lasting appeal. a quick trip to www. nogripracing. com and you will see how 
 many mods there are, perfectdark has also created the brilliant F1 2007/05 mod, as well as the 
 very well known SCC prototypes mod, which gives you the possibility to compete in the ALMS and 
 LMS seasons all the way from 1997 (i think) .
  there is also a COUNTLESS number of tracks available for download, like sebring, le mans, long 
 beach, laguna seca, infineon, lime rock park, and SOOO on... 
  
  In the end, this is a merely amazing simulator, that puts everything around it to shame, mainly 
 due to its astonishing attention to detail, tell me, how many games take in consideration the way 
 fuel moves around in your tank during corners? not many, but GTR2 is one of them.
  I am proud to say this is one of the greatest games i have ever played, no matter what genre or 
 platform it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Octavius09
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  GTR 2 is a racing game for players who like realism. Not only the tracks are recreated by their 
 real life counterparts but also the cars are done with much emphasize on reality. This is something 
 I can appreciate in a racer.
  
  Graphics look still great and it's always a plus that there is a cockpit view. This is many times 
 missing in other racers but in GTR 2 the cockpit looks authentic to their real life counterparts. 
 To enjoy this game in high settings a good graphics card is recommended also a surround audio system 
 will add to your experience. Yes this game needs a pretty beefy computer to be seen in all its 
 glory but still on medium and low settings the game will not disappoint.
  
  Now you know what system you need, but let's look at the other hardware you need to get the best 
 experience. A steering wheel is a must have to enjoy the game at its best, or at least a game pad. 
 Still the latter will give you plenty of annoyance while driving fast. I played the game with both 
 and I can say that my times got much improved once I used a steering wheel. For example from 1.51.148 
 to 1.46.361 on a particular circuit. Not only times improve drastically also your handling of the 
 car will be much smoother. And as you know in racing it is all about time.
  
  The game itself:
  
  My first tips would be practice, practice and practice. Yes you really 
 need to spend time on tracks before you are able to drive a decent race. Lucky for us there is 
 a free practice mode that allows you to drive freely on every major circuit available. For total 
 beginners there are some handy helping settings available, like auto brake, spin control, ABS and 
 many more. These aren't to overly helpful but just enough to still give you the feel you are handling 
 your car yourself.
  
  The Drivers school is also very handy to learn the basics and even has instructions for the tracks 
 you will encounter. By doing these you will be able to unlock extra circuits and challenges. There 
 is also a mode to drive one race only and you can even select the cars that will participate in 
 them, but the biggest fun comes from the Championship modes. Some can be short like the amateur 
 cups which take only a few laps while others can become pretty long, especially the 24 hour races. 
 However you can set these races to a shorter time if you like that more. This game is very flexible 
 and that is also shown in the car setup in the garage. You can alter almost everything from gears 
 to revs and tire pressure to camber settings, basically everything is adjustable to get that few 
 milliseconds out of your car. Unfortunately it isn't so easy when you aren't a gear head and you 
 will have to change and test regularly to get the best out of it. On the other hand there are setups 
 that you can download from the net that make things much more easy for you in this field.
  
  Racing:
  
  Your opponents will give you a real challenge and yes they do try to kiss your 
 tail once in a while, some of these little bumps can results in spins or even major collisions. 
 Fortunately you can also change their behavior when you feel they are a little too aggressive. 
 Still be aware that when you drive a slower car and you get a faster car in your tail its most 
 wise to go of the ideal line and let him pass. It just shows how realistic this game is.
  
  Replays:
  
  Replays and hot laps can be saved and reviewed, these can also help you somewhat 
 when you are uncertain you are driving correctly. The hot lap replays get overwritten when you 
 don't rename them, so when you finally have that perfect lap make sure you rename it.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  In the vanilla game there was a bit of lag on some tracks depending on the 
 amount of cars and weather, but since the patch this got improved. There are also options to assign 
 fast keys for chats which is very helpful in a racing game. There aren't too many servers anymore 
 and finding a race can take some time, but still the AI in single player will give enough challenge 
 so it isn't really annoying.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  This game is made for racer wannabe's. It will give you a decent amount of reality and looks pretty 
 detailed. The downside is maybe also his strongest point; you will need to practice a lot and on 
 top of that tweaking your car settings is needed if you want to finish first regularly. This game 
 is also very unforgiving when you go a little too hard in a corner, once you go of the track this 
 can have serious consequences to your position as well as to your car. Another tip I can give is 
 start slowly break a little sooner before corners and bit by bit try to go faster once you feel 
 comfortable on a track.
  For racing fans who like realism on the highest level this is a must have, players who like a more 
 kind of arcade racer better leave this one alone, because this really is more a simulation then 
 a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d3boy2001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Hello!
  
  I just thought I would write a review on this to show you that this is not some crap game just 
 cause of the dated graphics. It has been a year and a half now since I started playing simulations 
 (starting with GTR1) and I must say that this really grew on me. 
  
  Those damn need for speed junkies will tell you "This game sucks! the graphics suck, the game play 
 sucks, the handling is just so unrealistic!" Well, I will say, that if you've got the patience 
 to get the hang of this game, and the cars, then you will certainly enjoy it. Even after a year, 
 a LOT of people are playing GTR2. 
  
  Unfortunately, some dumb idiots rate this bad just cause they hate the graphics, or they suck at 
 it. I was 13 when I started, but seeing older people quit like this, I am really pissed of at the 
 number of people that have given this a bad rating just because they cannot play. 
  
  Let me firstly say "TURN OFF ALL YOUR DAMN DRIVING-AIDS!" Some people think that automatically 
 braking or turning cars is part of the actual game itself, and you cannot change it. Stupid as 
 that is, it happens.
  
  Anyway, just my 2 cents. This review should help me feel better :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcohenx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  I have been a big fan of arcade racing games since the ancient age of Pole Position in my local 
 bowling alley (and again years later on my Atari800 PC) but I have never been so impressed by a 
 racing game since I picked up GTR2. The depth of the content, the range of customizations, and 
 the stark naked realism absolutely blows me away. However, this is no game of bumper cars. If you 
 are not ready for a serious level of commitment to a video game this is not for you.
  
  GTR2 is a racing game that simulates the 2003 and 2004 FIA GT racing season. For those that do 
 not follow professional racing, this means that the game is based on racing sports cars from professional 
 racing teams on closed circuit courses; no midnight street racing, no drag, no drift, no stunts, 
 no demolition derby. Race as fast as you can (or dare) , earn championship points, and qualify for 
 better and more challenging races. The game has a single player mode against multiple AI opponents 
 as well as multi-player support on dedicated servers.
  
  There are dozens of car models, racing teams, and racetracks represented from around the world. 
 Each is rendered in almost painful detail from the placement of the stands, names and sponsors 
 of the teams, weather, and daylight.
  
  While there is no customization of the exterior appearance, the cars themselves are completely 
 customizable under the hood, including brake bias, wheel alignment, suspension stiffness, gear 
 ratios, etc. The game offers such depth of realism one almost needs a degree in mechanical engineering 
 to fully appreciate every feature available. In fact, one can download a free software package 
 from MoTec to monitor every aspect of a race, from g-forces to velocity/acceleration curves to 
 customizable charts on every conceivable metric. Fortunately, the level of commitment to realism 
 is also customizable, from anti-lock brakes to speed sensitive steering control to automatic clutch 
 shifting. Damage can be turned on or off and races can be restarted at any time without a penalty 
 for leaving an active race.
  
  The single-player game offers several modes of play. Firstly, there is a Driving School to teach 
 beginners the basic car handling skills. This is an essential feature because winning at this game 
 requires mastering how to maintain a high speed without spinning the wheels, locking the brakes, 
 or skidding off the track. Rare is the time and place where one is really driving at top speed 
 for long periods of time. Hitting a wall or an opponent's car does real damage. Damage the car 
 enough on the track and you won't even be able to limp into the pits. Substantially exceeding the 
 performance goals in the Driving School unlocks extra championship tracks so skipping this section 
 is not recommended, and the Driving School is extensive. Players should not expect to complete 
 the Driving School in less than a few hours but each goal can be completed separately so one can 
 jump in and out of Driving School at any time and the progress is saved to the player profile. 
 
  
  Of course, one can also jump right into racing. There is Open Practice, either with or without 
 other cars on the track, under any weather or daylight conditions. There are also short championship 
 series of races, usually 2-3 races of a few laps each against 8 opponents on different tracks. 
 There are even some 24-hour races where players will need to swap drivers and make regular pit 
 stops to refuel and replace worn tires and brake pads. All races can include a qualifying heat 
 to establish starting positions, a warm up to heat the tires and the brakes, and then the actual 
 race; or one can jump straight to the race and skip the preliminaries. Finally, the heart of the 
 game is the actual 2003/2004 championship series where one plays with a selected team through a 
 whole season, earning points and establishing placement in the rankings.
  
  The game is not perfect. Most notably, the manual barely scratches the surface of all the settings 
 available. As mentioned earlier, there are a huge number of options in terms of car tuning but 
 players are left to learn what each option affects on their own or from one of the community websites. 
 Also, for some reason, I can't replay races from the cockpit view, nor is there an easy way to 
 configure which races are saved as replays. Finally, while there is so much thought put into the 
 realism of the cars, tracks, and weather (including friction coefficients on wet roads) , one aspect 
 that does not seem to be included are the effects of wind resistance. As someone who appreciates 
 physics, there does not appear to be any benefit to riding in another player's slipstream. Similarly, 
 an extra 20 kph cross-wind can make all the difference between successfully completing a high speed 
 turn or crashing into a wall.
  
  I would say that the system requirements are moderately high. I played the game on a 2.8 GHz Pentium 
 P-IV single core system with 1.5 Gb RAM, a 512 Mb Nvidia 7600 GT GPU. Using 1024x768 resolution 
 and all high detail settings I was able to maintain 50-60 fps throughout all the races but I did 
 see some drop in frame rate with lots of cars on the screen. On a more up-to-date 16 pipeline graphics 
 card the game should not have any problems at all. Of course, the game not only fully supports 
 force-feedback steering wheels one is very strongly recommended. Playing by keyboard and mouse 
 can be done but this is definitely a handicap. Players need a pair of pedals to be able to maintain 
 constant speeds through turns.
  
  Because of the strong adherence to actual FIA races and rules and the great depth of customization 
 available, mastery requires a significantly higher level of commitment by the player than any arcade 
 racing game. Just earning all of the Driving School points requires lots of skill and practice, 
 even with all the driving assist features active. Unlike other titles, there is no "rubber band" 
 feature built in to slow opponents down if they get too far ahead or to suddenly improve the performance 
 of the AI players if the human player earns a big lead. This is driving simulation at its purest. 
 Young children will probably be overwhelmed by the number of mouse clicks just to get to a race.
 
  
  Overall, fans of true racing simulations will find this title an amazing achievement in the genre. 
 This is not only the best racing game I've ever played; it's one of the best games I've played, 
 period. However, I have only barely begun to master the skills necessary to play this game beyond 
 beginner levels so I can see this sucking up a lot of my spare time. If you are a fan of great 
 realism in your racing games you will love this but if you're a big fan of Super Mario Kart you 
 are advised not to get behind the wheel.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cvearl
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 12:01 am PT
Review:  Wow. Anyone else that has given this game a 9 out of 10 or higher has already said everything I 
 would have. This is a fantastic experience!
  
  I just got back from playing my newly purchased Race 07 and I am back to GTR2. Sorry but Race 07 
 (which I just reviewed as well) is not up to speed with GTR2. It's like GTR2 lite in most respects 
 but most noticably in the graphics area.
  
  I might have said Race 07 was it's equal if Race 07 looked as good as GTR2. But it's not even close. 
 And strangly enough it stutters and the framerate is hard to maintain whereas GTR2 is glass smooth 
 for me.
  
  Glad to own GTR2 and it will probably what eventually destroys my wheel and paddals. Well at least 
 when I am not playing LFS or RBR.
  
  My only complaint? Qualifying is difficult. I often place in the middle of the pack in qualification 
 only to end up in the top 10 drivers within 5 laps of the actual race. A little out of balance. 
 But easy to overlook.
  
  C. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JRIXM8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  When I heard that GTR 2 was under construction, I was very anxious to see the new member of GTR 
 family. As soon as the GTR 2 was released, I bought it immediately, I connected my wheel and without 
 losing any time I started the game. GTR 2 is simply perfect!!! The graphics are very good, the 
 models of the cars are very detailed and the tracks are fully similar to the real ones. The behavior 
 of the car is close to real life racing. The sounds of the cars are very good. The only negative 
 of this game is that I want GTR 2 to be a little more simulation of the car's behavior. I suggest 
 this game to everyone who plays driving games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Revolt26
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  Great gameplay.... excellent graphics, runs at max settings on my 2 year old p4 3.0 ghz and x1650pro. 
 The pit and garage screens have an easy to use interface for tuning and adjusting vehicle parameters, 
 the pit screen displays dynamic timing while ai players are constantly on race track . The pit 
 stop settings are very easy to setup and execute. The car setup page has pit stops that can be 
 preset before a race. so basically when overall race length is set and or a pit stop is needed 
 the Ai pit crew gets everthing handled with a snap. The driving school and time trials are among 
 the best i have seen yet. An optional racing line can be added that has different colors to represent 
 wide open throttle, partial throttle and braking zones. The only thing this game lacks is an Ai 
 crew cheif to help make tuning decisions and chassis adjustments based off player input between 
 practice and qualifying sessions.
  Best driving simulator yet.... Some Gtr2 packages come bundled with Gt legends which is also a great 
 game if you love nostalgic race cars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockatanski
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 15, 2007 3:32 am PT
Review:  This is the most intense and realistic car racing simulator that I have ever played, and I have 
 played them all. I will be brief in this review and try and nail the obvious so you can decide 
 for yourselves.
  
  First up, let's make no mistake - it is a brilliant achievement for a racing car game. If your 
 system has the balls, and I mean two of them (dual core) and you're video card is nice and fat 
 (7600 and up) then the graphics and framerates are going to hit 75 plus at full pelt.
  
  Surround sound didn't work for me but then again that's just probably something to do with my system 
 coz it works for half the games anyway. But even in stereo, your pants will fill with excessive 
 amounts of liquids when you hear these engines roar.
  
  The best thing about GTR 2 is the supurb amount of customization options that you have for adjusting 
 the realism of the physics. This will annoy some of you because you really need to spend the time 
 here to make it worth your while. Once you nail these settings, then you will know what the meaning 
 of true racing mayhem is. This is as real as it gets. Make no mistakes here, this is also the most 
 advanced racing simulator I have ever seen. I am totally losing every race and crashing almost 
 every lap. I am using a logitech gamepad to play as well and it's not too bad once you tweak the 
 controls well.
  
  If you want to use keyboard, then don't bother playing this game at all. It is an absurd idea. 
 This really needs a steering wheel and pedals to truly capture and present the best gameplay. I 
 will continue to play GTR2 because I haven't seen anything this good.. EVER.
  
  Ignore all reviews that say the graphics are bad and there's bugs etc.. this is just not true. 
 For all of you that experience this typical whining phenomena, then you should all buy the game 
 instead of downloading the pirated versions. It's all the junk of piracy in your registry that 
 is probably ruining all of your gaming experience anyway.
  
  GTR 2 is cheap now, I picked it up for 40 bucks at EB games sale. Put Need for Speed underground 
 down and play a real racing car game.
  
  :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusismyhomie
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jul 14, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game thinking that I wanted a nice, gentle (but good graphics and gameplay) racing 
 game. I was wrong
  
  The graphics (Put on the highest settings) looks terrible!
  I dislike the graphics so much that it is just ugly to look at.
  
  and second of all the sound 
 of this game is annoying. There are so many bugs in it that I get a headache.
  
  I would not recommend this to anyone that wants to enjoy a racing game.
  
  This game is for 
 racing NERDS to figure it out
  
  If you want to get a racing game then I would defiantly would recommend Need for speed (all of 
 the games practically)
  
  I am taking this game back where it belongs.. a garage sale 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psycho_ford
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 16, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  This game sucks.... Ok nice graphics , but you still need a high end pc to run this game right, 
 but you must know everything about cars or i you want to play this game you must somehow learn 
 everyuthing.... the setup of the car is way to difficult. it has everything.. you spend more time 
 adjusting you car rather than playing and i can't really understand where is the beauty of racing 
 on the same truck for about two hours. I can't really understand why gamespot gave to this game 
 a high score.... This game must be only reccomended for the serious race funs. For those who want 
 to have fun with a racing drive simulator i suggest toca 3 (less adjustments, more cars more fun) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madeirense
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 13, 2007 7:00 am PT
Review:  When i first installed this game, i was kinda sceptic... After a while, i was amazed... The detail 
 level, opponents AI and the driving experience, especially if you are using a steering wheel... 
 I first tried Monza Circuit, just to get used to the car control. Right from the beggining you 
 feel like a real driver... the level of realism is amazing... The game menu is easy to use, altough 
 the game soundtrack could be slightly improved.... You won't be playing a racing simulator as good 
 as this one for a while.... If you are a racing simulator fan, i strongly recomend you to play 
 this game... It's lots of hours of fun, planning your races, adjusting your car settings and so 
 on, just to do better on the track... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khaled_raa
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jun 12, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  this game is sucks.. you cant control well and there is no reality in it .. the only one thing 
 is good is the music its acceptable .. and by the way the graphics is bad .... I'll gonna threw this 
 game.. I just played it 1 hour .. and i cant keep it !!! .. I wonder how this game got (9 / 10) 
 in the site its so strange ?!! that's why i get this game from the vote here :S .. and that was 
 so bad it should get 4/10 for maximum for its total graphics and gameplay etc ... I wasted my time 
 with trying this game .. i wanna say to every one ( save yr money and your time ) ...
  Thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: selbie
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 6, 2007 12:23 am PT
Review:  Picture yourself in a GT racing car with several hundred horsepower under the hood. You are hurtling 
 down a straight with the world in a blur and approaching an S-bend. You brake at the very last 
 minute and drop your speed quickly to avoid too much oversteer. As you turn, the car wobbles as 
 the massive tires struggle for grip over the track. You glide around the corners taking care not 
 to spin the tyres. Squeezing the throttle, you touch the apex of the second corner and launch out, 
 letting the car swing wide to gain extra momentum. Meanwhile, the roar of the 700hp V8 fills your 
 ears, adding to the high-pitched whine of the turbo as the engine reaches its redline, scraping 
 for every last kilowatt of power. If this isn't a perfect depiction of automotive heaven then I 
 don't know what is.
  
  Play GTR2 and this is an experience you will never become tired of. This game is a follow up to 
 the successful GTR. This monster looks fast, drives fast and is challenging enough to make sim 
 nuts feel '1337', yet approachable for arcade racers that are ready to immerse themselves. It revolves 
 around the FIA GT Championship and takes every effort to give a real definition to racing sims. 
 Too often driving games claim to be realistic, yet never pull it off. The cars might look real, 
 but the driving is usually shallow and arcadish. In contrast, there is a purity to this game which 
 obviously stems from the developers own enthusiasm towards GT racing.
  
  Apparently there are a few improvements to the game that set it apart from the original (I haven't 
 really played the first much) . Firstly the low-speed handling of the humongous, over-powered European 
 cars has been modified to make the cars handle easier in the corners. That's not to say it's been 
 'dumbed down', just improved. Also tyre characteristics play a huge role now and you can really 
 notice it. Take too much speed into a corner and you'll find the tires scraping and skating against 
 their grain.
  
  The physics in the game are unbelievably correct (not that I've driven a GT car, but they're as 
 correct as you could imagine them to be) . Never in a game have I experienced cars that feel so 
 fast, so powerful, so imbued with mass and momentum. In fact, this is the first racing sim where 
 I've experienced 'hopping' around some corners - the process where there is too much grip on the 
 outside tyres and the inside tyres lift off the ground producing a bouncing effect. Also the full-3D 
 cockpit view will reflect this effect with the camera lurching from the positive and negative G-forces 
 on your virtual head, further adding to the realism.
  
  Enemy AI is the best ever, and could teach Mr. Schumacher some important lessons in manners. The 
 AI cars are aggressive and fast, yet fallible, and, in case you feel the heat, you can turn down 
 their aggression in the race menu to suit your taste. In saying this, the menu interface is quite 
 simple and easy to understand especially with the multiplayer component. There is also the ability 
 to download the MoTec telemetry software for an even more authentic racing experience.
  
  Sound-wise the game is flawless. Every action of every car has been recorded to the minutest detail. 
 While tuning your car in the pits, you'll hear the murmurs of the mechanics and staff, the echoed 
 announcements over the loudspeaker and the sounds of nearby cars doing their thing on the track. 
 The music is equally suited to the game's theme and really gets your heart pumping if you set it 
 to play while racing.
  
  The graphics in the game are quite beautiful and each car is modeled accurately inside and out. 
 There are a few things about the tracks that seem a little less realistic, namely the blending 
 of distant objects but this can be easily overlooked. Time of day and weather effects are also 
 something to be a admired from the glaring morning/evening sun, to the murky night where headlights 
 are your only guidance, to rain sheeting across the track and spraying off cars.
  
  GTR2 is a superb package and deserves a high rank amongst the best racing sims out there. It is 
 as much a joy to race the AI as it is to sample the many cars and tracks and become experienced 
 with them. So if you think of yourself as any kind of racing sim fan, or just a plain petrol-head, 
 you simply must get yourself involved in GTR2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadManRollin
Rating: 2.3
Date: May 31, 2007 1:34 am PT
Review:  I regularly check gamespot for finding new, interesting games to buy. And yes, I do buy a lot of 
 games. So when I saw GS gave 9.0 to this game, I thought I should buy it. I really enjoy racing 
 games, and it's not only about arcade racers. I played Colin Mcrae Rally 2004 and 20055 and deeply 
 enjoyed the rally racing experience. I'm also a big fan of the NFS series. Thus, despite of having 
 preference for arcade racers, I'm still up for a little bit of realism in games. However, this 
 game, GTR 2, really tested my patience. The controlling scheme is so complicated that it took me 
 a while to even get the car started. Once it started, I couldn't do anything until I turned on 
 the assists. Still, driving through the training course seemed more to me like a torture session 
 than a fun experience.
  
  After all, we play games for having some fun. No one plays a racing game to learn driving. I really 
 doubt whether Colin Mcrae has ever tried playing one of these games. The graphics was good, and 
 sounds were okay, but that's not the point. The game play is too complicated for the casual gamer. 
 Games should have something for everyone -- and GS should keep that in mind while reviewing games.
 
  
  I'm very sorry, but I can't really see much reason to buy this game. The only reason for playing 
 through this game could be that you really really want to be a F1 driver, but there's no chance 
 in hell that you'd even get a car of your own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superspeed04
Rating: 10
Date: May 30, 2007 8:20 am PT
Review:  I have always been a racing game fanatic, finally a few months ago i bought this game and was blown 
 away. The graphics are absolutely amazing, the downside is you need a fairly current computer to 
 play it well. The sound of the game is one best the best of ANY game for racing. This is a fairly 
 difficult game, you really need to have a steering wheel or a gamepad to drive, there are assists 
 to help with that, so you can make it as hard or as easy as you want. If you like simulation racing 
 this is one of the best out there, plus there are mods of Nascar tracks so if you are a nascar 
 fan you are good to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy_teo
Rating: 5
Date: May 1, 2007 1:30 am PT
Review:  October 18, 2006 - Last summer, Simbin released GTR for the PC, and it was good. Now, almost a 
 year and a half later, we have been blessed with the sequel, GTR 2. Once you've successfully modeled 
 a particular sport, it is no longer a great mystery what the content of the game will be. After 
 all, we've gone through countless of iterations of Madden NFL, all simulating what is basically 
 the same real life sport. Similarly, at first glance, it is hard to see what has changed from last 
 year in GTR 2. But as is the case with Madden, it's the small new features and improvements in 
 technology that keep us coming back year after year as the game creeps closer and closer to achieving 
 realism.
  
  Some of the improvements seem to be mainly spin-based marketing. For instance, we are promised 
 34 different track variations with no mention whatsoever of how many actual tracks this means. 
 In reality, there are less than a dozen tracks -- the same official FIA tracks included in last 
 year's game -- but by using various combinations of track layouts at a particular circuit, the 
 company now claims almost triple the number of layouts to race upon. It's a classic case of being 
 technically truthful, but nevertheless misleading, by the marketers.
  
  Also, 144 cars are promised; however, they count the same car on different teams as if they are 
 unique cars. So you don't really get 144 different cars; you actually get 25 different real-life 
 licensed car types. This is no small achievement, so it's a mystery why Simbin would feel the need 
 to inflate their car count to compete with console titles like Gran Turismo and Forza Motorsport.
 
  
  Like its predecessor, GTR 2 has three racing modes: novice, semi-pro and professional. For the 
 first time this year, however, you get a racing school mode to help racing newbies learn the ins 
 and outs of racing the various FIA GT cars around the circuits. If you've played the Gran Turismo 
 series on the Playstation, you would find this mode similar to the license trials in that game. 
 You are given tasks to train for and complete, such as braking, accelerating, following the correct 
 racing line, and doing track laps against a ghost instructor car. Completing these trials will 
 unlock tracks and championships in the game.
  
  The basic 2003 and 2004 FIA GT series championships are supplemented by additional 'custom' championships, 
 which are made progressively available throughout the game. These custom championships begin with 
 relatively short and easy single-make races, and graduate to longer and more challenging events. 
 In addition, there are endurance events up to and including 24 hours in duration. These can be 
 time-scaled or raced in real-time, and you can even take turns with a skilled AI driver to give 
 you a rest when your muscles start to ache or the eyestrain takes its toll (or your significant 
 other demands you get off the computer for a change!)
  
  As was the case last year, this is a full hardcore simulation and is compatible with the MoTec 
 telemetry software. Unlike last year, it does not ship with the software, but this can be downloaded 
 from the manufacturer's website at no charge. It takes a little fiddling to get the telemetry configuration 
 set up properly, which is annoying. It was nicer to have it working out of the box.
  
  Graphically, the game has been given a major facelift and come off about twice as good as last 
 year's. The cars are incredibly detailed, to the point that, unless closely inspected, a screenshot 
 could be mistaken for a photograph. The track and curbs are richly detailed with high-resolution 
 textures that show convincing real-life wear and tear. As usual, it is mainly the distant trackside 
 objects that reveal some of the chinks in the armor and remind you that this is still a game. But 
 where the action is, the track and its immediate vicinity, the graphics are incredibly realistic. 
 This comes at a price, of course. On anything less than a top-of-the-line PC, you will need to 
 dial back some of this eye candy to keep the frame rate high enough for responsive racing.
  
  If there is a disappointment with the graphics, it's that the frame rate is inconsistent from 
 track to track. Tuning your PC for a great frame rate in Barcelona might subject you to a stuttering 
 mess at Spa-Francorchamps. It would have been nice to be able to set the graphics once and forget 
 about them.
  Unlike most console racers, GTR 2 puts itself well above Forza and Gran Turismo by giving you a 
 full 3D cockpit interior. Full working instrument clusters, very accurate interiors, side and overhead 
 mirrors make each car unique in more than just sound and performance. Track-IR peripherals are 
 supported for live head panning, and if you aren't lucky enough to have one of these, a 'look to 
 apex' slider will allow you to look into and through each corner from within the 3D cockpit.
  
  One notable effect is sun flare, which will nearly blind you as you drive into it. The sun 
 changes location as it rises and sets in 24-hour races, which adds a sense of authenticity even 
 as it annoys you with its realism. The sounds are every bit as good as last year, if not slightly 
 better. You can individually tune engine sounds, skid sounds, and the sounds of other cars around 
 you. In general, the sound remains very authentic, and it is hard to find any room for improvements. 
 One of the problems with hardcore racing simulations is that they tend to preach to the choir , 
 so to speak. These products fill a small but passionate niche of the market for hardcore enthusiasts. 
 Nevertheless, there's always a desire to expand this audience, and the racing school mode of the 
 game aims to attract new players and get them up to speed. The game does an acceptable job of this, 
 and might help ease some players into the game. However, the fact remains that when you get out 
 of training and try to race, the game can get a little frustrating for the uninitiated. This is 
 due to the trial-and-error nature of finding the right skill level, and the confusing user interface.
 
  
  You can set the difficulty level as a percentage of reality. But there's also a difficulty level 
 for the championships that is independent of this slider. So you may enter a championship marked 
 'easy', but if your difficulty slider is set at 100% you will face some extremely challenging opponents. 
 Setting a slider for one race didn't guarantee a consistent challenge from track to track. I left 
 the field of competitors in my dust at Barcelona, but couldn't keep up with them in Magny Cours, 
 France. Qualifying is also strange. When qualifying at Barcelona, I was last on the time charts, 
 but, as I mentioned, I blew right by them in the race. This is an important issue, because racing 
 is only fun for most people when they have other cars to fight with. Being half a track ahead of 
 or behind the field is indistinguishable from pounding out boring solo laps. As a result, I spent 
 an inordinate amount of time adjusting the difficulty sliders to find a setting that would keep 
 me in the midst of a fight for the entire race, and it was quite difficult to accomplish.
  
  Still, dicing with AI in the race is fantastic. There are several settings for aggression levels 
 of the AI. You can go clean conservative AI or nasty aggressive AI. There is a 'realistic' level 
 of aggressiveness that I nonetheless found too aggressive, judging from the number of times I got 
 rear-ended under braking or nudged off the road when side-by-side. I reduced the setting to 'clean' 
 and this felt about right. GTR 2 lived up to my memories of the first version of the game by giving 
 me a good enough AI that I didn't feel the need to forego single player and rush to the Internet 
 for multiplayer racing.
  
  Online play is well integrated into the game. As with last year, you can access online folders 
 of car setups from within the game, download and use them, and rate them for others to see. And 
 then there is the multiplayer racing. In my review of last year's title, I criticized the net code 
 of that product, which was in fact the same code as EA's F1 series of sims (which were basically 
 unusable online) . This time around, I was able to locate an 18-person race and see that the net 
 code is much improved. I had no technical problems here. As for the actual racing, I was disappointed 
 to find the same idiots who wreck public online sim racing there in full force. Passing a slower 
 car, I was deliberately wrecked by someone who then purposely turned around to hit me again. Can't 
 we get this lot to leave GTR and instead spoil the Need for Speed multiplayer games? However, the 
 idiocy of some online gamers does not take anything away from the quality of the software itself, 
 and I fully expect to see leagues of quality opponents established on the Internet. I intend to 
 find one myself in the near future, so if you're running a league of serious and clean racers, 
 drop me a line!
  GTR 2's telemetry and garage setups are very similar to the way they were last year. If there is 
 something you can tune in the real world, chances are it is to be found in the game. somewhere.
 
  
  This brings me to the user interface, which is easily the biggest black mark on this title. It 
 is one thing to fumble around trying to figure out where the right buttons and options are during 
 the first few hours of play. It's quite another to be in the same situation many hours later. Having 
 rows and columns of buttons seemingly arbitrarily placed and with no regard whatsoever for common 
 sense is just inexcusable. At some points, you'll have four rows of buttons on the screen, all 
 black with white text, and with no sense of context to help you figure out which button is appropriate 
 to the task at hand.
  
  This has consequences beyond just aesthetics. In my first championship race, I had finished qualifying 
 and wanted to put just enough fuel into the car to finish the race. Unfortunately, the game did 
 an excellent job of hiding the number of remaining laps, since the slider that set that information 
 had disappeared. I later realized that because the race was specified in time and not laps that 
 I hadn't read it correctly. Eventually I found the option that let me specify race distance in 
 laps so I could see the race distance correctly and set fuel accordingly. But trying to figure 
 out how many 1:50 laps would fit into a 45 minute race is not enjoyable. I ended up running low 
 on fuel, pitting from the lead, and finishing 18th. In short, I wasted 45 minutes with no points 
 to show for it, all due to a poor user interface that made it difficult to find what I needed when 
 I needed it most
  
  The information is there, but the user interface overall is poorly laid out, difficult to navigate, 
 and generally confusing and cluttered. GTR aficionados will endure this to get to the racing, but 
 less passionate users might be put off by it.
  
  Hot lap replays are automatically saved, and you can save your race replays as well. The screenshots 
 accompanying this review were all taken from replays. The only thing about the otherwise superb 
 replay system is that you can't save anything into a file if it's not part of a race. There were 
 some amazing wrecks in practice sessions I would have loved to capture, but there was no way to 
 save them since they were neither in-race incidents, nor in a hot lap.
  
  The game fully supports force feedback, as it did last year. However, I found that with my Logitech 
 Driving Force Pro wheel (with 900 degrees of lock) , I was less than satisfied with the varying 
 spring forces. The wheel would go slack well before my front tires lost grip, causing me to stop 
 turning the wheel, only to discover that the car was actually still cornering. I was robbing myself 
 of faster times until I became conditioned to ignore the feedback from the wheel and just keep 
 pushing until I could see and hear that the car was plowing ahead.
  
  That notwithstanding, the physics are excellent and will challenge experienced sim racers, while 
 Simbin provides aids like traction control and ABS brakes as options. How realistic is it? Well, 
 I haven't driven a real FIA GT car, but the reactions of the car, for the most part, matched what 
 my real-life racing experience has taught me to expect. I don't think that the hardcore sim fans 
 will be disappointed. This is a game made by simulation fanatics, for simulation fanatics.
  
  Closing Comments 
::::::

::::::
UserName: me2u2
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  I run this game with a Vista Core 2 Duo PC with a GeForce 8800 gts. Graphics, sound, and performace 
 are spot on! I definitely had to do the trainer courses to get the hang of it, but once I completed 
 the training I'm having nothing but fun with this game. There is a variety of ways to set this 
 game up from arcade style to racing simulation with full damage and mechanical breakdowns.
  
  If you enjoy racing sim games, GTR 2 is a fantastic choice. I just picked up a second copy 
 for my nephew for $20 at BestBuy which definitely puts this game on the must have sim racer list. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _rpg_FAN
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 7, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Great game, but unfortunately there is not so many people that like racing simulations...
  
  Almost everyone i know like racing games like Need for Speed (which i liked before but now definitely 
 dont like, especialy Carbon) , they like games that are cool looking with high speeds and blur effect 
 even though they are not realistic and stuff... I myself like games like that (NFS) but i will never 
 give bad mark to game like this...
  
  This game is one of best racing simulations i ever played. Everything is done with so much effort 
 and there is soo many cars and tracks, and u can modiffy almost every detail, with realistic physics 
 and so on...
  
  This game must be in your posession because it is so good and it is fun, and hard at same time, so 
 u have good chalenge... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maugt40
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  I said racing simulation, this is a game designed for serious racing simulation fans with racing 
 cars, not sports or tunned cars for arcade gamers. Requires careful driving, even though it offers 
 the option for arcade gamers. There are other excellent games for arcade-type driving. This is 
 a superb racing simulation, the creators took that into account. The physics of the cars is superb 
 and the cars are modeled with full detail. Suspension works well and it is simulated for more real 
 feel and driving. I personally like to choose any car for driving. Not every gamer likes to earn 
 money to buy things, this game is focused on pure racing driving simultaion, not arcade type. I 
 don&acute; t really like driving games that offer some few cars for intitial driving and in order 
 to get and drive a car you like you have to spend your life driving tons of events and cars you 
 do not really want to drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aafuss
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 2, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  GTR 2 is even better than other games featuring FIA cars like Sony or EA's Formula One games.
 
  
  For starters there's various mods available-you can even have the V8 supercars . Plus the graphics 
 are impressive and the physics are authentic-so a GT car in GTR 2 will handle just as good as one 
 in the real world. That's impressive compared to other games licensed by the FIA-eg. the EA or 
 Sony F1 series of games (PC, the latter for Sony consoles) . The range of cars is respectable-featuring 
 famous names such as Porsche or fast and furious Ferraris and BMW's just to name a few. You can 
 race on famous tracks like Spa, Monza, Imola and Barcelona.
  
  It's best played using a racing wheel for absolute precision and control-like the G25 or Formula 
 Vibration wheels from Logitech. Oh and make sure you have a good graphics card-I suggest at least 
 a Geforce 7 or ATI X series card for impressive visuals. Also you have multiplayer available and 
 a bonus why not challenge a friend in the grueling 24-hour race mode. One more thing-you can comprehensively 
 analyze your GTR cars perfomance by using Motec's i2 Pro software-that's something a PS2 or PS3 
 game can't do unlike on a PC. In all-I recommend GTR2 to fans of other games that feature other 
 types FIA car like Formula One but would like a challenging racing game that will provides hours 
 of endless fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaBiggman
Rating: 1.7
Date: Mar 8, 2007 11:47 pm PT
Review:  I've had my share of racing sims over the years and now, sadly to say, I can add this one to the 
 pile.
  
  First off, let me say that I'm not just another Need for Speed junkie. I was playing racing sims 
 before that, and I will continue playing them far into the future.
  
  This game, without the shout of a doubt is old, outdated, and unwanted in my opinions. The steering 
 first off is terrible. At 30mph or higher, the car no longer steers, it becomes a speeding brick 
 destined to go straighter than an arrow in flight. It's funny because my crappy 96 Buick Regal 
 can steer better than these brand new supercharged vehicles.
  
  How do I know this? Because I generally take turns going 20 - 30 mph in the city. These aren't 
 massive turns either, these are tight squeezes in tight places. Somehow though, these amazing vehicles 
 cannot seem to handle anything higher than a 10mph turn. The graphics are plain old awful. Normally 
 that wouldn't matter to me, but it's a racing game and well, they don't have very much going for 
 them other than handling and graphics.
  
  I have never driven one of these cars, but I have had my share of cars through the years. Cars 
 with turbo, cars without turbo, with and without superchargers, V4 - V10 cars, etc... Yet, all 
 of these cars sound like a jet engine preparing to take off for some reason...
  
  Not worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rkipker
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Folks, I've read some of these reviews... like the one just before mine... Waste of Time this is 
 so far off the mark. GTR2 is one of the Best racing Games I've ever played... and I'm almost only 
 play racing games.
  
  This game is not just for folks who like Real Simulators... cause I'm not into Actual Sim Racing 
 for Actual Timed Races. This game GTR2 has it all.
  
  You can run a default setup, disable damage, and set AI's all the way down to Clean Driving at 
 80%.... get in the race and have a blast. You can skip practice, qualifying or not. You can tweak 
 every aspect of a car or not! You can just set you gas tank/mileage and number of pit stops depending 
 on how many laps you want to run. Oh yeah... you can set laps from 2 to 999 as well.
  
  The graphics are fantastic... but you will need a monster system to run it in high/Full graphics. 
 You can check your FPS in the game (ctrl-F) and tweak your video setup to maintain 30+FPS with 
 almost any 3d graphic carded system.
  
  Sound is great as well... each car from an American Mosler MT900R to the Porsche RSR each style 
 car has their own unique sound and rumble.
  
  Now for what I think is the best part... Add-Ons! I've already D/L tracks like Barber Motorsports 
 Park in B'ham AL. Laguna Seca, Watkins Glenn and many other National and world wide favorite tracks. 
 Additional cars and tracks not to mention any upgrade/mod you want at sites like www. nogripracing. com 
 I'm not a great review writer... but if you like racing games... on the track great sounds and 
 can get a FFB wheel w/pedals... this is a awesome racing great fun game. It also has a training 
 session which will eventually get you though each track.
  
  Check this one out.. it will be the best 20 bucks you've ever spent for a PC game.
  
  Hope 
 this helps folks on the bubble of should I or should I not. This and GT Legends are a great buy 
 at Amazon. The GT Legends lets you run the old great and GTR2 let's you run the newest GT speedsters.
 
  
  RKip
  
  BTW... the game may not be a Perfect 10.0 for erveyone... but far from a 4.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rooooooooe
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 19, 2007 2:22 am PT
Review:  This game must be only for racing sim fanatics.
  It&acute; s totally worthless if your just looking for some racing fun.
  
  Thee feeling when 
 you hit the gas as hard as you can is stunning, not in a good way. Then only thing that seem to 
 happen is the car is getting uncontrollable, you don&acute; t even notice that you are driving faster 
 than a moped.
  
  This game takeshours and hours to learn and it&acute; s really annoying if you have played games 
 like need for speed and so on.
  
  My advice for you is to go buy some of that.
  
  The good about the game is that it feels kind of accurate, you can flip the car
  and destroy 
 it in all kind of ways. But the bad is the feeling, it feels like you are driving a big pickup 
 truck, it&acute; s totally unhandable. I played this game a couple of timed, tried the different 
 features and after that i uninstalled it and I will never trie it again. What amazed me was the 
 overall score it had receaved here on gamespot, i just felt like i had to give a shoutout about 
 my feelings, but dont take my word for it, everyone is not alike, but if you like games like need 
 for speed i bet you would laugh at this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriscoPowers
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - The most realistic simulation to date is the only way to describe GTR2. The physics, 
 AI, cars, tracks, races are all represented faithfully down to the last detail. You're gonna need 
 a somewhat powerful computer to run it as the physics engine is extensive, especially when there 
 are large amounts of cars on the track. A good graphics card is a must as well, as cranking up 
 the settings and watching a 24 car race is simply stunning. The physics engine also provides THE 
 most real-to-life handling of all the cars in the game. I've heard that some real-life drivers 
 of the BMW M3 have picked up this game, and have mentioned that the in-game feel is close to that 
 of the actual car. Another fantastic part of this game is the driving school. Its not like the 
 Gran Turismo 4 license centers, as there are lines on the track that don't just show you the optimal 
 race line, but tell you where to break and accelerate too. There is 140+ lessons that should probably 
 be completed before you can race for real. That way, you get to feel what its like to be a real 
 race car driver in training. You can really get the feeling about how hard and intense being a 
 race car driver is..
  
  Graphics - When you're in the cockpit, there is no other way to say it then, "ITS REAL." They've 
 designed it down to the last detail, including sponsors! When you watch yourself in the replays, 
 it is pretty much just like watching a real race. The offtrack environment aside, cars, tracks, 
 and bystanders look realistic and the lighting effects are fantastic. The screenshots posted on 
 Gamespot do NOT do justice to this game.
  
  Sound - Whether it be the reeving of the engine, talking on the radio to your pit crew, or hearing 
 a Ferrari F550 fly past you, the sounds are loud and thrilling. Just like race cars should sound 
 like. If you've got it turned up loud, neighbors might mistake your house for a Nascar track. Once 
 again, the sound is entirely realistic that you'll want to pump up the volume to the max just to 
 hear your engine revving. Stomping on the accelerator to hear the noise is worth more than half 
 of the price of this game.
  
  Don't forget to buy a wheel, its the optimal way to play the game. The Logitech MOMO should be 
 the minimum. I have it and it works fantastically. The developers even pre-programmed settings 
 for certain wheels, including most of the popular Logitech ones. A step up from the MOMO would 
 be the Logitech G25 which is a bit more expensive but offers the benefit of a clutch and selector 
 gearbox. Whether you use sequential shifting or individual selection shifting, it is the real deal 
 on the track and it takes more concentration than your average arcade racer. Its the most realistic 
 driving simulation coming from a company owned by the director the FIA GT championship. What did 
 you expect? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 1, 2007 2:05 am PT
Review:  okay after playing it for almost 2 months everyday, it say it's a good simulation game that's comparable 
 to rfactor.
  it has lots of views including a rare cockpit view which i suggest you use in the game.
  if you're 
 using another view, the game looks poor, especially the sound. sometimes when you didn't accelerate, 
 i sounds like water splashing, the sound is invaried.
  
  if ur into cockpit, then you'll have a nice time, the engine sound is great and so is working with 
 a wheel great but the gear changing looks slow and unrealistic.
  
  overall a good game especially if you're a gtr fan, the online doesn't have much players though. 
 But if you hate driving around the tracks on and on, don't get this, right now, i'm a little bored 
 also. online has far too little players. but as i said, if ur into simulations, get it, it's a 
 rare title and it has a lot of mods and add-ons from some websites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BulletProof727
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 31, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- There is simply no way to describe. This is the REAL DEAL. Racing doesn't get as good 
 as this on the PC. The physics are amazing and the AI isn't as dumbed down like in the Gran Turismo 
 series (i like GT, but its not as good as GTR2) . Whatever a real race car driver would have to 
 go through in real life, you have to go through here. People don't seem to know what training racers 
 have to go through during the season but this game portrays that very well. Simply put, you HAVE 
 to practice at it. You can't just pick up ur steering wheel and win, you gotta practice, but thats 
 where the fun comes from :) .
  
  Graphics- Car models and the track layouts are crazily vivid and full of detail. The cockpits are 
 also just like the real thing. Although, the spectators and off track personnel could be worked 
 on, especially the pit crews. Thats not a big part of racing anyways so it doesn't really matter.
 
  
  Sound- When you're accelerating at full speed and down shifting, you definetly feel the power of 
 the car kick in. When turned up to the maximum, it feels like ur actually there.
  
  If you buy GTR2, don't forget to get a wheel like the Logitech MOMO which is reasonably priced 
 and works great. I would get the Logitech G25 if it didn't cost so much! The only thing the MOMO 
 lacks is a clutch but the sequential shifter is realistic as most FIA GT sports cars use sequential 
 shifting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fivaxis
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 29, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  I'm not sure what tracks the programmers have driven on but no race car should understeer so much. 
 No matter how you set the cars up they just plow straight ahead when you turn the wheel hard. It 
 would be quite helpful if the cars were able to actually turn.
  
  The game itself is ok but I have the most fun just driving around the track alone, the actual races 
 are hard to qualify for. Unfortunately it gets old quick when your car won't turn, and I always 
 end up getting mad at it.
  
  I'm using a Logitech steering wheel BTW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: janne55
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 8, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  Advantages
  --Sound is close to perfect; every track noise, gearing and revving is as good as you hope it would 
 be. --Graphics are for the most part awesome. The cars' inside and outside are very realistically 
 modelled. Everything important has been animated in a very stunning way. --The controls are the 
 masterpiece of this masterpiece. Every car is highly individual and through your steering wheel 
 (if it's good) you feel every bump in the road. It feels as realistic as can get and that makes 
 it so wonderful to make that perfect line. Disadvantages
  --Could be difficult for people new to sim racing. The driving school helps a bit to solve this, 
 though.
  --Bugs. Here and there in the game, you notice that something strange happens (an opponent disappears, 
 the car can fly into nothing when you crash it)
  --The setup system. This game has a highly advanced system for setting up your cars chassis settings. 
 Unfortunately, there is no information what so ever about what does what in the setup and because 
 of this, setting your cars chassis up properly becomes time consuming and very hard. --You can't 
 play it without a steering wheel (unless you like to crash into walls)
  
  Verdict
  None of these disadvantages, however, matters at all once you are on the track and driving as hard 
 as you can to improve your time or overtaking an opponent. It's quite simply amazingly fun and 
 because of the number of cars, number of competitions and the depth of the controls; you never 
 get tired of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lzblind
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jan 6, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why gamespot like this game so much! They say it's a 9.0 game and I can't agree with 
 that. It's not like me, but I feel almost offended by seeing this 9 there. I'm glad I didn't bought 
 it... it would made me very mad. =) If you saw gamespot's best and worst games of 2006 , you could 
 see that this game was one of those good games that no one play... And they doesn't understand 
 why. For me, it's so clear, so obvious, that the only explanation I can find is that the reviewers 
 are huge fans of this game or computer racing games. If you like racing games that stick to the 
 real job of driving a car, go play gran turismo. If you like to fire your engine and dive into 
 adrenaline, try need for speed. The sound effects doesn't look real, the engine sounds like that 
 old game, stunts . The graphics are terrible, everything looks like it's made from brightless plastic 
 painted with a child's painting software... The textures are poor, specially the grain and track. 
 Not to mention the rain... man, what's that? I don't know if it changes when controlling the game 
 with the wheel (cuz I only have a keyboard) , but controlling the car is no fun at all. The brakes 
 and the wheels doesn't seem to answer your hands, it feels like the track is driving the car and 
 you are just trying to help. They say that the game tries to teach you how to drive this kinda 
 realistic game... but it teaches you with a bunch of boring lessons . So, borrow it before buying 
 it... it feels like those realistic air simulators, they tie so hard to the real deal that they 
 forget that a game is suposed to be fun and then you prefer to fly fighters at Battlefield 1 or 
 2... It's a game, it's not a real car... and to infuse a game with the sense of reallity it takes 
 a visionary and artistic touch, and this game doesn't have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _R3SP3CT_
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 25, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  GTR2 (PC)
  
  Racers on the PC have never been very good. The KB/M controlls are just not made for racing games. 
 But that dosen't mean the game sucks because the controlls might not be what is expected. This 
 game is one of the best racers on the PC. Again I'm not a real fan of the controls but this game 
 more then makes up for it with features.
  
  PROS:
  - Graphics, this game has outstanding graphics (considering you have a pretty good graphics card.)
 
  - Dashboard view, now you can feel like your in the car, the dashboard view is really nice, makes 
 you feel like your really in the car
  - Online, PC's have always been the medium for online gaming, this game is no exception, you can 
 have up to 28-player races, virtually lag free (the lag is really minimal but when it does occur 
 it can really mess you up)
  - The vehicle damage actually shows, if your driving 80MPH and hit a wall your car is going to 
 look like it hit a wall going at 80MPH, yes the damage shows in this game, making for a nice addition.
 
  
  CONS:
  - System Requirements are a tad high, if you have a pretty good graphics card GeForce 7800 or equivalent 
 you should be Ok, but playing this game on an integraded chip is not going to cut it.
  - Some racers can get cheap, but that's part of any game, you can be in the lead for most of the 
 game then one tiny screwup and you lose, then have to restart the race, kind of gets annoying, 
 but once your used to the game it shouldn't be a problem
  - The controls, playing the game with the keyboard is quite difficult, the keyboard controlls are 
 responsive but just not made for this type of game.
  
  Conclusion:
  - This is a great racer, especially for a PC, the graphics and online play stand out from other 
 racers, and there is lots of customization (tune-ups, etc.) , playing the game with a keyboard can 
 be rather difficult though. If your looking for a great racer and don't have a console, this is 
 the PC racer i'd reccomend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXxXeNoCiDexXx
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 21, 2006 11:58 am PT
Review:  Good game, but kindda pointless.. It's not like you get more cars and what not by winning races. 
 The graphics are pretty good. The sound is also pretty good and it feels pretty much like a simulation. 
 I have a 8400 and a maxed out XPS 700... and the game runs great on both. If my 8400 can handle 
 the game with max settings, so should your computer. Don't need a superb graphics card to bring 
 out the best of this game, unless your really into gaming. If you got money to blow, then buy this 
 game. If you think it's going to be one of the best games ever played, then your in for a huge 
 disappointment. The game is worth playing though, isn't the best... but it's good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grinde91
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 14, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  If you were (and still are) a big fan of the EA f1 and NASCAR Racing simulations, this will be 
 the next classic in your collection. With just as impressive graphics and realism, this makes it 
 dominate the racing sims market. Although it takes a while to get used to using the controls, you 
 will not regret it at all. The best part about this game is the damage system and the day to night 
 and weather transitions. However, on the realism side of things, such as the driving aids, ect, 
 this let me down a bit compared to the original GTR. If you compare this game with all the latest 
 racing sims (e. g ToCA race driver 3, GT4, Test drive unlimited) , this has to be the most realistic 
 and challenging of them all. The only thing that is really missing on the ToCA series are some 
 driving aids and dynamic weather. The AI is also a bit cheesy, but still a relatively good game 
 to play. GTR2 will make you learn about car setups (which are vital in th&icirc; s game) to get 
 the most of your car. The wrong setup can ruin your race or make you practise more than you have 
 ever done. The AI in GTR2 is like they say a bit too hard to beat (which is realistic to be honest) . 
 You will have to make sure you make no errors, or you will have to build up your race all over 
 again. so in conclusion, and excellent game for beginners (due to the driving school) and a strong 
 competition for pro drivers. hope you enjoy the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ATHF_Bum
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 12, 2006 9:22 pm PT
Review:  GTR2 is overall a great game, the learning curve may be hard but that's only to people new to the 
 series. If you played GTR then you'll love GTR2.
  The variety of cars is great and if there's a livery you want but the game doesn't have all it 
 takes is maybe 2 hours making a skin in photoshop. The car models look great, but the environment 
 (such as trees off track and such) looks terrible. It's like GTA graphics off track.
  
  Sound is very, very good, which is something to expect from SimBin. There are only a few minor 
 problems with the sound and that is with the car sounds. The TVR T400R sounds nothing like the 
 real one (the real TVR T400R has a wonderful I6 sound) and the C5R sounds downright terrible. Luckily 
 there are some very devoted players who have made sound packs to get your GTR2 cars sounding right 
 :]
  
  If you look in the right places you can find some great user created cars, such as the DBR9 or 
 C6R, and you can find all sorts of skins for your favourite cars.
  (Race Sim Central Forums is a great place to look) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fitles20031975
Rating: 2.3
Date: Dec 9, 2006 4:11 am PT
Review:  Short and snappy is certainly severed by this inflexible system. One cannot demonstrate any true 
 understadning of the review if it may not be more fulsome than an indecent one hundreds words. 
 However, try as I must...
  
  Looks really **** I won't be buying it because its not real. I might half-inch it though. Temporality 
 declines motivation. All the way back to the real world. Rather mollified. Exhibits a sabotaging 
 tendency to lag in its appearance. Fruitless dependency on cartoon graphics. May have worked on 
 the Wii, as that's a girls' toy, isn't it? All in all, and without pulling my kicks, I would be 
 generally inclined to say that this rancid offering is only a little less than insulting to someone 
 of your obvious intelligence. Good day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niks-fish
Rating: 6.9
Date: Dec 4, 2006 9:14 pm PT
Review:  This one is very hard. If you plain to win it you must get one of the best steering wheel. You 
 have no chance of winning with the keyboard.
  You should also get a decent video card to play it at a good speed.
  I didn't like the graphics 
 and specially the speed. Everithing was set in low graphics, but it was pretty slow. (my card: 
 FX5200)
  
  The most disappointimg for me is that you can't tune your car. You can't do anything on it, except 
 to chose some colours of the teams.
  
  One of the best things in the game is the tutorial. It really helps a lot to learn to play. You 
 can unlock tournaments when you win some tests.
  It really cost a lot to learn to play ok. A simple error (like braking at the same time you're 
 steering) makes you go to sand.
  
  Don't forget, this game is a sim. If you tought it might be similar to nfs OR Gran turismo, you 
 were WRONG. You'll be disapponted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junkchaser
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 19, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  This game is really amazing! Though the graphics are rather basic the gameplay is realistic. First 
 I was afraid that this game would be too heavy for my PC but with a AMD 2000+ with 512MB of RAM 
 and an ATI 9600 Pro this game really drives very smooth. Of course not with the detail on maximum.
 
  
  If you get really into the driving there is no point of return. This game is so addictive you spend 
 whole days driving around on circuits trying to drive just that little faster through the curves.
 
  
  One thing is for sure ... you have to have a good steering wheel for playing this game right. Otherwise 
 you better stick to the arcade driving games with your joypad or keyboard.
  
  Buy this if you really like good simulation games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FastrBlastr
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 14, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Personally I have been a fan of the GTR series since it was realeased but I finally feel the series 
 has reached the zenith of motoring simualtion.
  
  I understand that this game is not for everyone but for a driving enthusiast it is seventh heaven. 
 The representation of your car's handling in this game is absolutely spot on and I feel to get 
 the most from this game you really need to invest in a force feedback steering wheel otherwise 
 you miss out on so much tactile subtlety. The cars behave exactly as I would imagine a 600bhp + 
 monster to behave. As in they are very hard to keep on the road at high speeds, impossibly so if 
 you resort to the kind of driving techniques you would apply in the likes of TOCA / GT / PGR. While 
 these games are emmence fun and instantly enjoyable they don't represent what it takes to drive 
 a powerful car exceptionally fast.. control. How many times do you see someone in PGR3 make a last 
 minute dive for the apex of a hairpin turn, coming far too fast with no appreciation for the racing 
 line but with clever use of the gears / barakes / handbreak the car masterfully drifts and pulls 
 out gracefully. Try this approach to driving in real life or in GTR 2 and you will accomplish one 
 thing a very quick and somewhat painful trip to the hospital.
  
  GTR 2 really hits home the need for subtle and precise control of your car. The driving school 
 is a wonderful introduction to high speed driving for those who would like to learn the techniques 
 required to drive on a track, which does a wonderful job of reinforcing the ethos of control.
 
  
  Physics and control aside GTR 2 has some wonderful graphics and awsome sound. While GTR 2 is no 
 where near as pretty as most of it's competitors the sounds are the most realistic and immersive 
 in any racing game I've played. From the sounds of your engine screaming at high revs to the radio 
 chatter to the sound of your tyres just clipping the gravel trap on a corner nothing else sounds 
 as good or goes to as much length to convice you your are on the track.
  
  Finally the tracks themselves offer such a wide variety from fast and relentless to highly technical. 
 There is nothing better than the feeling that you could stop playing this game take your car to 
 the nearest track and apply what you've learned. I think it is going to be a very long time before 
 any other driving game comes along that basicly forces you to drive as a race driver would and 
 give you some glimpse into the world of premier motorsport quite so convincingly as GTR 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wild_Card
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 13, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Ok were to begain. first let me point out that this is my first PC raceing SIM. i have played the 
 grand turismo games ect. Also Im pretty new to the GT raceing scean as well. also i am not playing 
 with a wheel ect. im useing my saitek cyborg flight stick. First up, graphics. Not bad. The cars 
 look great. the inside view is good. Some of The tracks are a little sparce but over all very clean. 
 The game is a bit of a resource hog. i play on a AMD 64bit 3000 @2.10 CPU , 1G of ram and a 6800gt 
 GPU. i can play in 1024/768 2xAA 4xAF 28cars on track and most graphics options cut up to max and 
 my normal FPS avg is about 30 or so. how ever i have had issues with stabilty. 4 CTD's and many 
 events were fream rates would take a nose dive in the preteens. ending game and restarting is the 
 only way to fix. all drivers are up to date ect. just thought id give a warrning. not unplayble 
 but it is a issue. CPU car AI is alot better than the grand turismo series to be sure. How ever 
 its far from perfect. if you stall on track many times the AI cars wil stupidly crash into you 
 even though thay had plenty of space to go around ect. The physics are good. I my self have done 
 my share of ... spirted driveing in very powerfull cars. the spin out moddle is a little over done 
 and the manner in wich the car will spin's is not right. But all in all its not to bad. The game 
 is very playble with Keybord and mouse as long as you cut on pretty much all of the driver aids 
 and dont expect a completly smooth race line ect. with a flight stick you will need a couple of 
 driveing aids. but the game is MUCH better when you have at least some form of analoge controls. 
 key is setting up sensativity ect. Its very hard for me to score this game seeing as its my first 
 of its type and i have little to compaire it to. but all in all its well worth getting IMHO and 
 is dispite a few obviose flaws a very fun game with alot of replay value. one thing i would like 
 to have seen would be a true carrier mod. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: purcusionist
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 9, 2006 5:03 am PT
Review:  Dont be like me and let the price of this game fool you! I found this game to be the most realistic 
 , and challenging racing sim I have ever played! Yet as difficult as this game can be to learn 
 , I find it a very fun learning process! I'll just sum it up as this:
  
  With my Force Feedback Wheel, this is the closest I have ever felt like I was actually racing in 
 a real race car.
  
  ABSOLUTELY SUPERB!
  
  Asus P800SE mobo
  P4 HT 3.0ghz processor 3.4 OC'ed
  Nvidia GeForce 6800GT 256mb AGP
  2 gig DDR400 Corsair Dual 
 Channel Ram
  2x Maxtor 80g 7200rpm Hardrives
  SoundBlaster Live 24
  19' Samsung SyncMaster LCD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pgatcomb
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 7, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  This is probably the most down to earth realistic racing simulation game I have ever played in 
 my life. I have played netkar pro, toca 3, nascar sim racing, Rfactor, Richard Burns rally and 
 none of them quite capture the feel you get from the game. The first thing you notice when you 
 first take your car out on the track is how much a of a difference slight differences in speed 
 make the difference between a taking a corner perfectly and ending up in the gravel. The whole 
 experience, from the mirrors in the car to the vertex damage on vehicles is simply incredible. 
 Drivers school is a must, and the championships are varied and challenging.
  
  The Bad:
  This game will take you hours to get good at, and that's with a descent wheel. I have done thousands 
 of laps on a variety of tracks and to this day I still spend some time in the gravel. Loading times 
 are moderate and driving with more than 7 cars on the track can be a slide show making for impossible 
 driving. Fortunately the developers put in a lot of options for tweaking. The one thing that got 
 me more than anything is that the AI is TOO good, especially at qualifying. I would think that 
 breaking a track record in a car with 200 HP less than the car that set the record would seem a 
 little odd.
  
  Overall:
  If you like sim racing, or are just looking to kick it up a notch, this game is perfect for you. 
 The AI is incredible and the cars feel like you'd expect 650 HP pieces of racing machine to feel. 
 Just remember to warm up those tyres and take the time to learn the garage options, it'll come 
 in handy when you decide to take it on line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: champhf
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  this game is so hot .......... i bought it today and im still learning how to play . the cars are 
 crazy and so many unlockables are available it will blow you away. i won't lie this game will take 
 time to learn but you will be sucked right in, the graphics, the sound, and game play is smoking...... this 
 will have me playing for hours and im still only in training. i was scared to spend my hard earned 
 money on this game but now im wondering why i wasn't at the store the day it was released. i hooked 
 up my joystick and it recognised it and im playing it like it was on a gams console and im trying 
 to think if i ever played anything this good on a game console and i can't remember!!! belive me 
 when your playing and the sun hits you in the cockpit it is so real you will feel like you are 
 behind the wheel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kingchappy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 3, 2006 4:01 am PT
Review:  I bought this game a few days ago. As a typical Formula 1 racer, I was cautious in starting with 
 Touring Car racing.
  
  Boy am I glad I made the switch!!! For 1, this game has the most realistic damage and crash model 
 I've ever seen in a game before.
  I've been playing GP4 and the EA Formula series for a long time now, but never has a racing sim 
 come this close to reality.
  
  Although for keyboard and joypad players, the controls are pretty jerky, with a little tweaking, 
 GTR2 is reasonably playable with a joypad.
  Personally I've always favoured a wheel, for that I can say... GREAT JOB....
  With my new G25 
 coming I still play with the oldschool Logitech Wingman Formula Force.... Still with that wheel 
 the forces are pretty much the real deal .... I can't wait to try it with the new driving aid ;)
 
  
  As far as graphics, I'll just shut up... AMAZING really, the car detail really got to me, as well 
 as pit-crews and the whole overall engine working it's way through the simulation. There's nothing 
 more pleasurable then screaming along the track with 31 cars on your tail, recording the whole 
 thing and reviewing it with amazement.
  What also got to me was the Pit mechanics, for the first time ever I've seen the possibility to 
 ask for a damage report :O..... asking for permission and requesting your position have been seen 
 before, but OMG what a thrill. Nothing like hearing some-one say to you how you're holding up in 
 the race.
  
  Last night I started a run on the 24 of Spa.... 1 word only seems to fit :
  
  DROOL
  
  To bad I haven't come around to test the AI extensively yet, but so far I can't 
 complain. The fact you really have to work you ass off to overtake says it all.... Nothing like 
 a true fight for position!!!
  
  Car physics and drive-ability are really nicely done.... I really had to get used to the fact it 
 wasn't a formula car.... When set up right, a formula car always sticks to the road like flies 
 on flypaper.... Touring Car mechanics.... driving is a whole other world, which IMO only makes 
 it more challenging to drive. Let alone to be a good driver :D
  
  Conclusion:
  Every race simmer should absolutely have this one in his/her collection. If you don't : You call 
 yourself a race sim fanatic?? 
  Graphics, gameplay, playability are right up there with the top.... if THE TOP.
  
  If you really 
 want to enjoy the game to it's full extent, be sure to bring a very powerful system with you.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Exodia_Necross
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2006 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Everything in the game is super, except for a few things...
  
  Another annoying thing about the game is that it only offers the 2003-04 sessions... no Z4 ///M 
 Coupe! no F430! different teams.
  
  But enough criticizing, this is the best game I played this year. I was really disappointed with 
 Most Wanted and was really looking forward to this game. The demo was awesome, but I was very afraid 
 that the real game will be a disappointment, but there is nothing farther from truth, the game 
 is awesome!!! Physics are the best Ive tried EVER! The G-force is the best I have EVER tried (G-force, 
 for those who dont know, makes a game A LOT more realistic) ! Hot cars (Ferrari, BMW, Porsche, 
 Lambo, and much more, 144 of them. SO much to do in this game. Driving school is great. More championships 
 then you can imagine (which Simbin never mentioned) ! Like six 24 hour races that you can reduce 
 and save in the middle of (which is very important!!!) . This game is  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DusTech
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 20, 2006 10:17 am PT
Review:  I can barely call this a game , it is, at all effect, a racing training. I'm playing it at simulation 
 level with my driving wheel and pedals and I still find it extremely difficult. I'm getting driving 
 school about accelerate and braking... i'm not good enough to play a race.
  
  This game is a perfect simulation but I don't think that occasional player will enjoy it. Maybe 
 if you play it at rookie level you will be happy with yourself, but it's not the same.
  
  Play it at SIMULATION level and you'll enjoy your hard work about become a real pilot!
  
  About 
 technical issues I don't know why this game is so high resource-sucking
  because the graphic isn't so advanced... you'll need a good system to play it properly on races.
 
  
  This game is different, push to the end your pedals and you'll be out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knut-am
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 16, 2006 11:31 am PT
Review:  im not going to make a long description of my view of GTR 2, i dont have the time as im headning 
 back to play it some more. most of you that read this view on the subject allredy have some kind 
 of opinion anyway on wether this are superb or simply great becourse it fits both those view's 
 equally well. Simbin has done some work on the original GTR game + added some lessions from their 
 GT Legends game and made this. the gameplay is i think from an overall gamers point of wiew better 
 then both it's predesessors. it has a lot more to offer in the form of more tracks and a very good 
 driving school mode that sadly wasnt there on the brilliant GT Legends. this help any new gamer 
 to adapt to the many tricky tracks and cars that are here + of course the driving itselfe. it has 
 a more forgiving driving model in the semipro difficoulty then it's predesessors but has kept the 
 hardcore Professional setting more or less just as challenging as it was in the two previous games 
 mensioned here, im not going to write anything about the easyest arcade mode, it simply is there 
 for the very casual player, though it is good it's there, i just dont play it on that setting so 
 i got nothing to add about it. GTR 2 is lacking some of the charm i've found in GT Legends, mainly 
 becourse the cars in GTR 2 of course are all modern GT cars with very mutch simular handling capabillities 
 (roughly speaking) and thus has no cabriolet versons or 1000csm engine like the little Fiat in 
 GTL, its not a bad thing of course since this game simulate the modern GT class racers.
  
  the Graphics in GTR2 is,,,, allmost. but one issue i will say it has and that is the tires they 
 dont look right but i can live with that. the presence of changing wether condissions w/ rain make 
 a giant leap in the series and the landscape itselfe also are now mutch more up to date looking. 
 the prize to pay is of course the PC you need to run it all without any FPS loss. a modern high 
 end system is required to play this on anything above 1024x780 with most details turned on.
  
  the Sound is great as in all Simbin driving games, again all the different cars has their sampled 
 sounds presented in the game and it sounds deadly well on a good speaker setup, probably on a lesser 
 speaker setup as well but i have't tryed that.
  
  o well,, i cant sit here typing anymore about this game without going pack to play it.. so for 
 anyone that know of Simbin's driving games from before ; this wont let you down either. for the 
 newcomers to realistic driving sims on the PC ; this is the best game to get aquaintent with it. 
 but please have the hardware, well above the recomended PC spec's for you nead evry ounce of it. 
 high end SLI or Crossfire realy come in handy in this game.
  
  now its back to my sceduled 3 hours racing spree... yipiiiiii !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funnyCigarette
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 17, 2006 4:39 am PT
Review:  Finally, the perfect (alright alright, almost perfect) race-sim is released! Currently, there's 
 no other game on the market, that deserves to be called a racing simulation as much as this one 
 does. Here, you get the true handling of a race car, the feeling of speed (which you can adjust 
 by changing the field of view) and the greatest sound ever. The most complicated thing about creating 
 a race-sim is to make the digital sound very realistic and boy... the creators of GTR 2 made it 
 just great. I'd give it a 11/10 for the sound if I could. The most annoying thing about this game 
 are the requirements compared to what you get to see. I've got a 6800GS 256/256 and I still have 
 to go down to DX7 effects to get satisfying framerates (~40-50) . But graphics should not really 
 bother you - most important thing is the track, the car and you driving it :)
  
  Oh, and please read the warning placed on the official website of GTR 2 before launching the game 
 (It's true!) .
  
  Edit: Finally got the perfect solution for the gfx settings... in my case, I just had to turn off 
 all shadows keeping all other settings at full/high, high detail interiors and high res. car livery 
 to get smooth framerates at 768x1024 + AAx2 and DX9 effects.
  With shadows turned on I'm experiencing real bad slowdowns on some tracks like Spa, Barcelona or 
 Zhuhai. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wurn
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 16, 2006 6:28 am PT
Review:  Still waiting for my game, just ordered it. Played the DEMO and wooweee it rocks. Graphically it 
 looks amazing if you look at the screenshots. My current rig battles a bit to run it smoothly and 
 make it looks great. Not long from now i will have upgraded and kabam it will look like the screenshots.
 
  
  Like its predacessor its gonna be difficult but with enough patience and gritt one can get up the 
 ranks. To me what makes this game amazign is the sound, the cars sounds so amazing that i really 
 feel as if i am inside the driver seat.
  
  A note if you are going to attempt to play this game without a steering wheel then good luck to 
 you. Alot of gamers feel that a steering wheel is just an expensive tool, on the cont-rare, it's 
 a necessity. For GTR2 you definitely need one. You can use you keyboard or a joypad but will find 
 it difficult and frustrating to drive.
  
  I am so glad that the pc simulator games are stil alive.
  
  Only negative will be it is not 
 a game where you can quickly start up have a nice relaxing quick race and exit game. You need to 
 fully commit to it for a few hours before it really starts to come alive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martinium18
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 15, 2006 10:26 pm PT
Review:  This is hands down the best racing game I've ever played. I m a die hard gran turismo player but 
 the races are limited to such a small amount of cars the realism effect and graphics in this game 
 are just on a completely different level, this game just looks amazing on max settings on my pc. 
 Much Kudos to the hard working developers. This game deserve any car enthusiast attention just 
 because it is such a great experience to play. I just can't tell you how realistic it is. I've 
 always personally preferred PC gaming over consoles except for fighting games because they are 
 always light years ahead. This game further proves my point. If you have a good enough computer 
 to run this game please do so. The game runs lag free on my system which consists of FX-60 and 
 stock speeds 2 GB RAM and two 7800 GT's in SLI, no lag whatsoever. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AndruhaSurin
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 15, 2006 3:56 am PT
Review:  best graphic and gameplay on pc racing games ever! But game could have city races (like PGR3 or 
 some kind of streetracing for more fun but its GTR) ! This game is awesome breaktruth for pc raceing 
 and (need to buy) . Look like forza2 and better than PGR3 or any TOCA and others! cockpit view 
 is awesome! With my EN6600GT with highest grafic available in game its flying fast (i would buy 
 a new card for this game for sure) . Could be more fantastic with good PC recomended. Cars in this 
 game are fantastic (have even BMW) ! Everything is on highest level of design and qwality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markt50
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 14, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  The PC is blessed with some fantasic racing simulations, we have Live for speed, RFactor, GT Legends 
 and now the follow up to the fantastic GTR.
  
  GTR2 is simply amazing. If you have a decent PC and steering wheel then you're in for a treat. 
 This game exudes class in all areas. The graphics are fantasic, the handling of the cars is top 
 draw, The sense of speed is excellent. The sound is just as good as in GTR which means it has the 
 best sound effects ever heard in a racing sim.
  
  It takes a lot of effort and practice to become good at this game, but it never feels frustrating, 
 I've spent hours driving around the same track in practise mode attempting to shave those vital 
 hundredths of a second off my lap times. There is soo much fun to be had in simply driving the 
 wide selection of cars around the many tracks on offer. The AI cars are fun to race against and 
 display a decent level of racecraft without being overly aggressive. The online racing can be fun 
 and frustrating depending on the server you join. I've had some excellent online races, but they 
 can be spoiled by the occassional person deciding to play dodgems, or the fact that everyone wants 
 to win going into the first corner, resulting in the obligatory first corner pileup.
  
  A steering wheel is a must to get the most from this game, I've played it with a MOMO and a Driving 
 Force Pro and both are excellent wheels to use when playing GTR2 and they really enhance the experience.
 
  
  If you have any interest in PC Racing Simulations then GTR2 is a must buy, and a yard stick by 
 which future racing sims will be judged. A fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lvjmd1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 14, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  I never really liked driving sims till now. This game is great. Graphics, sound effects, handling 
 and so many options to figure out. I forgot i was in my room and just concentrated on the driving... I 
 had to win the race!... which just proves to me that this game is worth the money. I found handling 
 of the car difficult at times but I realized after some time that this just was part of the realism 
 of driving a car. You cant just floor the car and expect to win, you have to practice with the 
 many tracks and cars to get the feel of the game. I think anyone would like this game and it is 
 well worth the $20 and it looks like there are some tracks and custom cars for downloading. I am 
 still trying to figure out the details of where and how to do that. But overall a great driving 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdanaci
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 13, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  GTR 2 is a very hard game. It is a simulation. i didnt like its interface. it is so crowded. if 
 you dont have a good graphic card, you wont like this game Because at lower resoltation you cant 
 see rims bla bla bla. If you crash your car badly it is burning. But flame effects awfull. Your 
 car takes damage but i dont like it. In the cockpit you cant see tire wear or others. I played 
 it about an hour but its boring. If this games score 9.0, toca 3 must have 9.5. Sounds are good. 
 AI is good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 11, 2006 5:58 pm PT
Review:  I am not one of those really hard-core fans for sims even though thats where my love for PC first 
 started, but now and again I do really want my realism to give that extra kick of imersivness.
 
  
  Overall I am quite pleased with this title even though I was a little turned away from the demo, 
 (due to the tough control sceme for the gamepad I was using at the time) . I did give this game 
 a second try with a different peripheral .
  
  Controls: Well, this game / sim is very unforgiving on button mashing, in fact if you are using 
 a game pad you must as well ensure that you tie in the analogs to your steering, throttle and braking. 
 Each of these nuances do take take some finesse. Your best bet is getting a wheel / pedal setup. 
 Some swear by Logitech's Momo wheel, I myself use the thrustmaster Ferrari GT2 racing wheel, and 
 it responds just fine.
  
  Graphics: Low end cards may have alot of problems pull out some of the nice glitz, and glare GTR2 
 has to offer, but of course that goes both ways, I do wish for more support allowing more tweak 
 settings for a higher end card. Like when it comes to AA / HDR and whatever else tickles my fancy. 
 Otherwise the damage effects really do this game nice along with weather.
  
  Sound: Audio, not too bad you can tell the difference in cars coming up on you, nothing groundbreaking, 
 but its a nice tie in knowing you got some decent sound effects that can be tuned up to your liking.
 
  
  Stability: One crash, and that is it this could have been a drivers issue with my X1950XTX's video 
 drivers, but after trying out a different set of drivers the issue never occurred again.
  
  Multiplayer: Not bad, you can get enough in game, and not have any performance issues in a race. 
 Overall very impressed with the stablity of the netcode.
  
  Overall, I have to give kudos to the development staff for really doing this game justice in this 
 inhabited genre. This sim / game isn't for the weak at heart, you have to learn the lay of the 
 roads, and the quirks for the vehicle you use. Example the Viper's high end torque in full sim 
 mode, will cause you to either scrub the tires wearing them down to the rim, or causing a complete 
 spin out. So caution must be checked when applying throttle to that vehicle.
  
  I suggest a wheel for this to get the best out of this title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Dukes
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2006 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Okay, ive only bought one other racing game for the PC (need for speed : most wanted ) ... ( i 
 thought it was fun ) . i played the demo, i thought it was great, so i noticed the game released 
 and it was 20bucks, i was blown away so i purchased it. All i have to say is this is an amazing 
 game, racing is great, difficault, but fun!
  
  The visuals and sound are terrific, however game seems to bog down with settings all the way up 
 and w/ max cars (36) in race! and my computer is no joke! And the reason i dident give this game 
 a 10 in gameplay and value is because the online play seems to lag a little bit, i do believe its 
 because most of the servers are not in the US. I say if you are interested in racing (of any sorts 
 ) pick this game up its well worth 19.99! WEELL WORTH IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abergfeld
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 12, 2006 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Racing sims are in short supply these days. For those of us who don't want to run from the cops, 
 defeat a rival gang or add neon to our cars, there's precious little to choose from. I own TOCA 
 3, GTR and now GTR2 and GTR2 is far and away the best of the bunch. IMHO, TOCA is an arcade game 
 by comparison. GTR's race weekends with practice and qualifying simply offer more than either the 
 ladder progression (without qualifying) or the 3-5 lap class races of TOCA. Graphics are superb, 
 as is sound. The menu can be gawdawful confusing and it takes a couple of hours to settle in on 
 how you want your game set up (view, driving assists, video options, force feedback, etc.) , but 
 once you get there, it is the most lifelike racing experience I've had on a PC. I've driven a fair 
 amount of autocross and the physics in GRT 2 are spot on in my experience. Key features for me: 
 1) GTR 2 has lots of custom championships with just a few events so you can compete in an evening 
 instead of a month. It also has full championships so you can compete for a month if you want to. 
 2) Once you find the right level of driving assists (for me it's semi-pro with auto trans, leaving 
 antilocks and traction control on, but everything else off) , you can tune your car AND your competition. 
 The AI can be tuned in percentage points. for example, I am not a gearhead so I load the default 
 setup and reduce the AI so that I am competitive - around 96 or 97% seems to work for me. That 
 may not help online, but in the single player it makes your experience not-too-easy and not-too-hard. 
 3) Amazing replays. This is the only game that I've ever watched replays on. You feel like you're 
 really watching a race - and the screenshots! Great wallpaper material.
  
  The only knock on gameplay (and maybe it's my lack of setup skill) is qualifying. I consistently 
 qualify low - or last , yet when it's race time, I'm usually on the podium if I don't crash out. 
 There is a default setup - perhaps a default qualifying setup would help. Bottom line: this sim 
 will keep you busy a very long time. Multiple championships, multiple classes, multiple cars and 
 online racing. All this for the princely sum of $20. An absolute no brainer for any sim racing 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Piquet2
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 11, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  This game picks up where GTR left and does a great job. I think the driving school and custom championships 
 are steps in the right direction, but I still miss some kind of career mode. You can start and 
 stay at the top for as long as you want, your results doesn't really have an influence on your 
 virtual career as a race driver. The only thing that will make this game last long is the multiplayer 
 part.
  
  Graphics are very good, especially the car models. The tracks can be a bit bland, but when the 
 scenery moves by at 250 kph, it doesn't really matter that much.
  
  Sound is awesome, really nice sampling these guys made. I love when the car starts to shake at 
 high speed and the sounds that come along with it. Personally, I absolutely hate the music, but 
 then again I'm not a techno fan.
  
  The handling and physics are awesome, and afaik, Simbin worked closely with teams in FIA's GT championship 
 to make it as real as possible. The AI can be a bit tricky sometimes (maybe it's just me) . I sometimes 
 experience weird behavior from opponents, when I overtake or am being overtaken by cars from a 
 different class.
  
  My overall score is 8.6 - great
  
  Pros: Realism, graphics, sound, force feedback, driving school, multiplayer
  
  Cons: Absolutely 
 AWFUL and confusing user interface, still no career mode to bring some importance to your race 
 results. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NIGHTHAWKAK47
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 10, 2006 12:51 am PT
Review:  well i thought gran turismo 4 was the best simulation ever then this game came around and proved 
 me wrong
  Gameplay : Crystal Perfect Outstanding Masterpiece Mind blowing i mean can it get closer to more 
 perfect i mean the next best thing is drinving the real cars ... isnt it?
  Sound : well the ///M3 GTR 's engine note just shoved me out the window the screeching engine sounds 
 collisions just let u think that u just died and got burried under the INDY track
  Graphics: man oh man i think just the internal view needs a little more polish but come around 
 these are perfect car modelisation is outsanding it outdone GRAN TURISMO 4
  Buy it damn you!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kahuna9995
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 9, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  Personally I have been a fan of the GTR series since it was realeased but I finally feel the series 
 has reached the zenith of motoring simualtion.
  
  I understand that this game is not for everyone but for a driving enthusiast it is seventh heaven. 
 The representation of your car's handling in this game is absolutely spot on and I feel to get 
 the most from this game you really need to invest in a force feedback steering wheel otherwise 
 you miss out on so much tactile subtlety. The cars behave exactly as I would imagine a 600bhp + 
 monster to behave. As in they are very hard to keep on the road at high speeds, impossibly so if 
 you resort to the kind of driving techniques you would apply in the likes of TOCA / GT / PGR. While 
 these games are emmence fun and instantly enjoyable they don't represent what it takes to drive 
 a powerful car exceptionally fast.. control. How many times do you see someone in PGR3 make a last 
 minute dive for the apex of a hairpin turn, coming far too fast with no appreciation for the racing 
 line but with clever use of the gears / barakes / handbreak the car masterfully drifts and pulls 
 out gracefully. Try this approach to driving in real life or in GTR 2 and you will accomplish one 
 thing a very quick and somewhat painful trip to the hospital.
  
  GTR 2 really hits home the need for subtle and precise control of your car. The driving school 
 is a wonderful introduction to high speed driving for those who would like to learn the techniques 
 required to drive on a track, which does a wonderful job of reinforcing the ethos of control.
 
  
  Physics and control aside GTR 2 has some wonderful graphics and awsome sound. While GTR 2 is no 
 where near as pretty as most of it's competitors the sounds are the most realistic and immersive 
 in any racing game I've played. From the sounds of your engine screaming at high revs to the radio 
 chatter to the sound of your tyres just clipping the gravel trap on a corner nothing else sounds 
 as good or goes to as much length to convice you your are on the track.
  
  Finally the tracks themselves offer such a wide variety from fast and relentless to highly technical. 
 There is nothing better than the feeling that you could stop playing this game take your car to 
 the nearest track and apply what you've learned. I think it is going to be a very long time before 
 any other driving game comes along that basicly forces you to drive as a race driver would and 
 give you some glimpse into the world of premier motorsport quite so convincingly as GTR 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lule_vets
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2006 2:03 am PT
Review:  Zanimljivo je to postoje neke stvari koje u starijim ljudima bude neto de&amp;#269; je i, ma koliko 
 eleli da to sakrijemo, jednostavno me&amp;#273; u nama igra&amp;#269; ima nema onog koga neka igra 
 nije vezala za kompjuter u meri koja odska&amp;#269; e od normalne. Zbog dobre igre i online okraja 
 mnogo nas je zapostavilo u&amp;#269; enje, sport ili devojku, ali ta da se radi, dobra igra &amp;#269; esto 
 zna da bude dezintegrator slobodnog (pa i onog drugog) vremena. Samo jo pet minuta u online okrajima 
 zna da se pretvori u sate. anrovi koji izazivaju ovakve simptome kod igra&amp;#269; a su raznoliki 
  to su uglavnom dobre strategije, FPS-ovi, FRP-ovi ili dobra vonja. U februaru prole godine 
 smo predstavili prvu verziju igre GTR koja je i dan-danas ostala jedna od najboljih simulacija 
 vonji ikada. Sa velikim interesovanjem su brojni fanovi ove igre do&amp;#269; ekali nastavak.
 
  
  www. nacionalna-klasa. com za on-line igranje. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mutley89
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 8, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  I dont normally write reviews but simply had to for this game as some people have called the game 
 awfull and that couldn't be further from the truth! One review i read says this will never be as 
 good as Toca Race Driver 3. I find that rediculous. This game makes TRD3 look so basic its not 
 true. I have driven a 270bhp Subaru impreza just yesterday and played GTR2 today and i cannot begin 
 to tell you how realistic the feeling of speed in this game is. I can honestly say this is the 
 first game to get it right, and the sound in this game is also completely faultless. To the people 
 who say the graphics are not that good, they must have awfull computers. And with a steering wheel 
 this game is very very playable. To sum up if you're a fan of racing buy this game!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nuggetoker
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 4, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  FIrst off, this game has set a new par for all other sim racing games.
  
  Ill keep this sort and sweet. Ill also defend the game a bit :)
  
  Well, someones review mentioned 
 camera angles were lacking... This game is meant to be played from the cockpit, thats where all 
 the beauty of the driving comes in play.. Thats where the physics truly become awe inspiring.
 
  
  Next, this game requires (imo) a wheel and pedals (logitech Momo force for me) Another reason why 
 some people may boast about this game over others, wheel/pedals or useing the keyboard... Ive driven 
 a couple fast cars in my life, and aside from actually feeling the G-force, this game is darn close 
 to reality.
  
  The feeling of speed is beautiful, fast and real. Some sim racers do poorly at this.. Making the 
 car feel slow.. Not this game, very well done.
  
  I only reduced points in Gameplay because there isnt a solid single player campaign (like Gran 
 toursmo) Yet, this isnt a console racing game, this is a sim for people how love to race (drive 
 fast cars) Which it did near to perfectly.
  
  Graphics.. Well, there definitely nice.. It is a racing game though... Youre not staring at the 
 beauty of pixel shaders up close on the wall... So, its hard to judge this. Completely acceptable 
 imo
  
  Plus it has online racing! A huge benefit to the game. Its very rewarding both following another 
 person online bumper to bumper a couple laps, but also passing and manuevering through the slower 
 cars/people. Great game, Period
  
  PS: if youre looking for a whole new caliber and interactivity in gaming, buy a logitech momo (wheel/pedals) 
 Amazing! Id like to build part of the shell of an F1 car, mount my momo inside, then have it hooked 
 to a projection (big screen) on my wall. That would rock! Now, where can i get some cash? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sg1sgasgc
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2006 10:44 pm PT
Review:  If your like me, you were probably hesitant to buy another game called a sim after the hype of 
 Race Driver 3 ( best sim created my foot) . This thing is so real it is not funny. Thing only thing 
 bad i have to say about the sim is that you have to do the driving school to unlock parts of the 
 game and the voice overs from the pits are very hard to hear. That aside, i have never driven a 
 game so difficult in my life. It is so real and challenging and incredibly enjoyable. If you want 
 a real racing experience, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandnizzle
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 3, 2006 12:58 am PT
Review:  This is a SIM racing game based of the FIA GT series - each car is directly modelled from the touring 
 cars from this series, and physics will reflect this. These are NOT standard manufacturer Porshes, 
 Lotuses, etc. So you can't just add an exhaust or a body kit - the cars are already as they are 
 in the actual series. However, the game allows a great deal of tuning - real tuning that is, such 
 as gear ratios, suspension settings, and the like.
  
  And to this extent, it is a very good game. The ISI physics model used its getting old, although 
 the company has tweaked the model quite a bit from GTR. So the physics are quite good, although 
 I'm not sure how difficult the game will handle without a wheel. I use a DFP with the current drivers 
 installed, set to 270 degrees.
  
  I think many people are buying this game with other console sims in mind, such as TOCA, and GT4, 
 and do not realize that those games are considered by the sim community, for the most part, watered 
 down sims edging on arcade.
  
  This game has real life effects and you must drive accordingly. You must learn to trail brake, 
 you must know how to apply threshold braking, and weight transfer. You must learn how to kill the 
 understeer or balance over through delicate throttle control. It's a challenge to post competitive 
 lap times, especially if you compete in online leagues.
  
  In the end, if you like SIMS, and I mean real sims, such as NASCAR 2003 season by Papyrus and GPL, 
 then buy this. If you like GT4 and TOCA, let this be an entry into the next level. However, if 
 you want to change the bodykit, add massive spoilers, and add neon glow to the underbody, you might 
 want to steer clear of this quality title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enesjusufi
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2006 2:11 am PT
Review:  Yep thats it... the best damn racing simulator. Because this game is EXTREMLY realistic, the fact 
 that the Simulator was created and was tested by many FIA GT Racers and other famous racers to 
 MAKE SURE this game is 100% Accurate and the GTR simulator is STILL used for Practicing by real 
 racers...... thats how realistic it is!! The sound, the physics, the graphics, the cars, the car 
 behiviour, gameplay, the feeling.... the engine sounds...... oh baby, the engine sounds!!! grrrrr!! 
 Gives you goosebumps when you hit the gas!!!! An experience that a Real MAN must test once in its 
 life........ The only ones who dont like this game is Kids, because you cant TUNE your car... put 
 a Turbo in it, put a rear wing on it..... a la 2 fast 2 furious..... its only laughable........ 
 dont you kids get it?? Its a REAL Racing simulator... THIS GAME IS FOR REAL MEN, COME BACK WHEN 
 YOU ARE ONE OR GO BACK TO NEED FOR SPEED AND PLEASE..... PLEASE STOP WASTING YOUR TIME GIVING BAD 
 RATINGS AND BAD REVIEWS TO THIS GAME.......
  
  IF YOU DONT HAVE THIS GAME........ THEN YOU HAVE A PROBLEM...... DO YOUR SELF A FAVOUR AND FIX 
 THAT PROBLEM! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madgonzo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 16, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  (Disclosure: I fly online with one of the developers of this sim)
  
  When I heard about GTR, in was only just available in the states, and I wasn't a huge fan of driving 
 sims. I enjoyed them, but I didn't know of a good GT sim, and GPL and F1C couldn't hold me the 
 way a good flight sim could. Then, while flying online w/ Mark Reynolds, he mentioned that GTR 
 was different. in that its physics model was awesome (they actually tested some of the cars in question, 
 and had very good numbers for all of them) , and my car was included (Z3 M) . Now I knew I had to 
 try it. Many hours, many crashes, and a full on Act Labs wheel, gearshift, and clutch/pedal set 
 (but no championships) later, I was sold on the racing genre (by the way, the Z3 M low to mid end 
 performance was modelled flawlessly; I haven't tested the high end speed stuff personally, but 
 it's very believable) .
  
  The thing that impressed me most about GTR (and now GTR 2) is the sense of speed. Most games, the 
 corners take you by surprise because you can't see them coming, and even when you can see them, 
 it doesn't feel like you're going faster than 45mph, so instinctively you can't figure out why 
 you just overshot into the infield on a turn it looks like a schoolbus could make. GTR 2 doesn't 
 have that problem. If you overshoot, it isn't because you didn't have warning (the turn indicators 
 on the side of the track and the optional turn cueing take care of that) , it's because you didn't 
 brake properly, shifted the weight of the car too far forward, and understeered exactly where you 
 were trying to avoid.
  
  When I heard about GTR 2, I wondered what it could possibly bring to the table. Then after realizing 
 I wasn't a slouch at racing, but still couldn't win place or show (but would've made the ESPN highlight 
 reel with spectacular crashes) , I realized that maybe some training stuff and recommended car progressions 
 could be added. Lo and behold, the driving school is possibly the greatest single addition to this 
 program. It describes technique, consequences of success and failure in attempting said technique, 
 gives you practice time, and lets you perform for score. The best thing about this is that when 
 you fail and want to retry (or if you just want to go back and review the text) , you don't need 
 to reload the track every time! Imagine that: you spend more time racing than looking at a screen. 
 Driving school gets my nod for best new feature as well as its elegant execution (no slapped-on 
 feature here) .
  
  SimBin also made a smart move with the GTR series' transition to the rFactor engine. I'ma a huge 
 rFactor fan as well, so when I heard that GTR2 would use a gorgeous graphics engine and an unparalleled 
 physics engine, I was very happy. After opening the box, I wasn't disappointed. SimBin made great 
 use of the rFactor engine. When driving the Z3 M on Monza, I was ecstatic. This sim is better in 
 every respect. One eye-candy knock on the original GTR was daylight modelling. Specifically, the 
 original engine couldn't change daytimes on the fly; it required loading a different track (same 
 track with different graphics) . Naturally, this causes issues for immersion purists on those 24 
 hour races. SimBin listened to the masses and fixed this with dynamic weather and daylight, and 
 for further measure made the daylight transition scaleable (so you don't have to wait 24 real hours 
 to see a full day's transition) . Lastly, the interface is clean and well integrated. You can get 
 to the configuration screen from about anywhere, and there is no load or transition time between 
 screens as is often the case nowadays with interfaces bolted on in the 11th hour. Even the music 
 is greatly improved from GTR 1! Quite honestly, nothing in this package seems either bolted on, 
 nor 11th hour.
  
  They did remove one thing, though from GTR 1: the Starforce copy protection scheme. For people 
 who missed out on GTR because they didn't want the world's most aggregious copy protection program 
 on their system now have no excuse to pass this one up!
  
  All this, and for a $20 price tag. That's absoluetly incredible. I would've shelled out $50 for 
 this sim, and I wouldn't have thought twice.
  
  The only reservation on this product is for people who don't want the hardcore. Ladies and gents, 
 this is not NFS: FIA! This is a sim, and you won't even make it around the track the first time, 
 much less beat the AI or the clock. If you aren't sure about graduating from arcade physics, give 
 the demo a whirl. You don't need more than two cars or one track to let you know whether this game 
 is for you. Everyone else, come on in. This is the best GTR yet!
  
  10/16/06 Addendum: After putting plenty of time into this sim, I find myself driving my real Z3 
 M a lot more tactically , which is to say taking those 2-lane country roads at 70mph with better 
 performance in turns. The fact that you can use sim driving techniques to improve real-life driving 
 speaks volumes about the fidelity of GTR 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ForzaCC
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 29, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  GTR was a massive hit and won numerous awards when it was released a couple of years ago. If you're 
 one of those who loves GTR it is quite impossible not to be completely flabbergasted by its sequel, 
 GTR 2. Graphics and the sonic experience have improved while handling of the cars has been refined. 
 In addition, the different levels of challenges together with the demanding driving-school makes 
 this a game that you will be able to enjoy endlessly. The only thing on the downside is that it's 
 a difficult game to control, but I guess that has more to do with my own skills (or lack thereof) 
 than the game itself. All in all, the verdict can be nothing else than a roaring standing ovation 
 - appearance, sound and movement come together in perfect harmony!
  
  To finish this review off I just want to mention the adrenaline-kick I get when blasting down a 
 straight at 230 km/h - with hands and arms shaking from the feedback from my steering-wheel - I 
 constantly check the rear-view mirror to avoid being overtaken by a fierce opponent. It's absolutely 
 priceless! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zelkien
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 26, 2006 10:37 pm PT
Review:  I know this game is a sim, and a sim is a sim is a sim. Some sims can be nothing but stats like 
 baseball or plotting a course underwater in a submarine. Aside from what other sims are I actually 
 drive cars and this game is definitely not a sim. My friend has a Lotus Elise and races SECCA. 
 The fact is that you can swing a 180 turn doing over 40 mph. This game says that if you don't almost 
 stop while turning you will not make the turn. As far as the Porshe, Ferrari, and other dream cars 
 I can't personally attest to how they handle, but they just don't feel right. Another lacking area 
 is the sound. While Acid Loops are cool music sometimes, when you can TELL it's an Acid Loop it's 
 not good music. I really don't believe all the engine sounds and what the heck is the clunking 
 noise while driving, did I leave something in the trunk unsecure? Now onto the graphics. My P4 
 3.0 (OC 3.4) 2 gig ram and 256mg 7800gt actually handled it all pretty well. It did get sloppy 
 if 10 cars were piling up but otherwise it was pretty smooth. The cars look good, the pavement 
 looks good, everything else is a little void of detail. If you haven't already purchased a good 
 racing game AKA TOCA 3, then definitely buy it before you purchase GTR2. TOCA is as much of a sim 
 as you want or as arcade style as you can handle. GTR2 just comes up a little short on the wow 
 factor after the start up. Also a MOMO Racing wheel is a must. I live and die by mine. The feedback 
 effects on GTR2 are top notch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbgun12shot
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 23, 2006 11:25 am PT
Review:  I usually play first person shooters, but I wanted a different kind of challenge. I downloaded 
 the demo for GTR 2, and decided to purchase it. This game, in my opinion, is worth so much more 
 than 20 dollars. I use to play racing games, and this is the best by far, it has sophisticated 
 driving schools, realistic physics, good graphics, sounds, everything about it just seems great. 
 One thing though, if you buy this game, you will need a controller, joystick, or steering wheel. 
 I am using the xbox 360 controller for the pc, I have analog gas, brakes, and steering, and without 
 the analog you are going to find yourself facing the wrong way consistantly. I right now am still 
 learning, I am stuck in driving school, a 180 degree turning lesson where you have to beat your 
 instructor, I have tried and tried and can't beat it! Talk about a challenge, I love this game.
 
  
  I play with all the automated shifting, steering help, and so on off. With the difficulty on realistic, 
 so don't get scared, I just like a challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radioactiveman
Rating: 7.9
Date: Sep 23, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  Got this game this morning, and am glad I did not buy it, this would be a great game if it was 
 for PS2 or Xbox 360, but the controls are not great for PC. It is a great sim, not comparing to 
 Grand Turismo 4. I doubt I will play this game very much if at all just because it is very hard 
 to control with PC. Maybe if I buy a gamepad one day I might play this, but I'm a big FPS fan, 
 and mouse controls are the best for FPS's, so I doubt I will be buying a controller anytime soon.
 
  This is a good game and that's why I rated it the way I did, but I didn't like this game at all. 
 If you like racing games and have a controller, buy this game, it's very detailed and realistic. 
 If you don't have a controller, download the demo if there is one, or download the full version 
 torrent and try it before you buy to see if it's ok to play for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: williamshattner
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 23, 2006 12:20 am PT
Review:  The original GTR and the quick follow up GTL, were great games that were well received and pleased 
 a rather jadded sim community. This pretty much meant that the games were difficult for an average 
 gamer to get into. I know that I never raced either game online for sheer fear of both getting 
 pounded AND acedentily running into someone and ruining a race. GTR 2 is more accessible in both 
 its single and multi player components. It still provides the brutal challenge of a realistic sim 
 if you choose, but it will also provide just the right amount of helps for noobs like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterheijmans
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 19, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Hats off to SimBin! I had hoped that some day some one would develop a simulator that would do 
 our monster gaming pc's justice, and today that became a reality. Thank you, thank you. As for 
 me, this has got to be the most realistic and accurate racing sim for pc I have ever experienced. 
 When you plant your seat in that Ferrari, and take around the Barcelona track, and the roar, yes 
 roar, of the engine, and the way the vehicle responds to your actions and lets you feel every bump 
 on the track. If you don't find yourself leaning into the turns, and your heart beating a little 
 faster and you don't actually FEEL like you are really there... Check your pulse.
  This thing is Incredible! It's going to be a challenge to top GTR 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djhelix
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 26, 2006 6:42 pm PT
Review:  I knew it would be good! I have been really benchmarking the physics in other racing simulation 
 pc games such as: rFactor v1150, awesome game by the way; and LFS (Live for Speed) not NFS, that's 
 FAKE all around, or arcade, respectively. If you talk to people that actually know about racing, 
 and the sensation they receive from it, are you were to ask them which video game make you feel 
 that way the closest, it's a battle between LFS and rFactor. GTR1 was just pathetically bugged, 
 erratic car behavior/physics (ect) . Not GTR2 is out! WOW man i must say it's like combining the 
 best of what rFactor has to offer, and LFS, in 1 game. I have also played in the past, and playing 
 again, Gran Turismo 4 for PS2. If you are familiar with the physics/handling in that game, GTR2 
 will be a welcoming surprise. AIM me a wbry2001@aol. com if you would like to know more. Peace. 
 s 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmb34
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 19, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the best gt games that I have played! I didint realize how many cars are in 
 this game and I am having a hard time deciding which one I like best.... I have the game maxed 
 out and I am getting as high as 90fps and lows around 30 DEPENDING ON HOW MANY CARS ARE ON THE 
 TRACK. This is by far the best $20 I have spent in a long time. One thing that is a huge plus is 
 NO STARFORCE! This is game so far seems to be running smooth on my rig so hopefully no bugs popup. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BMWMotorSport
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2006 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Everything in the game is super, except for a few things...
  
  Another annoying thing about the game is that it only offers the 2003-04 sessions... no Z4 ///M 
 Coupe! no F430! different teams.
  
  But enough criticizing, this is the best game I played this year. I was really disappointed with 
 Most Wanted and was really looking forward to this game. The demo was awesome, but I was very afraid 
 that the real game will be a disappointment, but there is nothing farther from truth, the game 
 is awesome!!! Physics are the best Ive tried EVER! The G-force is the best I have EVER tried (G-force, 
 for those who dont know, makes a game A LOT more realistic) ! Hot cars (Ferrari, BMW, Porsche, 
 Lambo, and much more, 144 of them. SO much to do in this game. Driving school is great. More championships 
 then you can imagine (which Simbin never mentioned) ! Like six 24 hour races that you can reduce 
 and save in the middle of (which is very important!!!) . This game is  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mydasx
Rating: 8.4
Date: Sep 19, 2006 10:24 am PT
Review:  In my humble opinion the only reason i buy consoles is for sports, racing, and niche games like 
 zelda, mario, gran turismo, etc. It is hard to find good racers for PC, since the nascar titles 
 stopped being produced we have been hovering in no mans land for racers. Toca was good but not 
 quite. GTR 2 hits the spot! Nice physics engine, pretty graphics, lots of cars and tracks. AI is 
 challenging, but beatable if you are a good driver. You know you are playing an awesome racer when 
 all you can think about is trimming off fractions of seconds for your lap time. For the price tag, 
 this is a must buy for all your racer fans looking for a fix. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
