-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: GTR FIA Racing
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/driving/gtr/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The finest car physics model to date.
 Incredible number of options and customizations.
 Gritty, complex audio.
 Accessible to rookies and arcade veterans.
 Excellent attention to practical and graphical detail.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Dreadfully long track loading times.
 Requires high-end computing power.
 Potential multiplayer pitfalls.
 Not enough prerelease fine-tuning.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul  1, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.8
Critic Score: 8.6, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 699 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 10tacle Studios
Developer: SimBin
Genre: GT / Street Racing
Date:     May 3, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Despite its blemishes, GTR is the breath of fresh air this genre so badly needed. 

  Not without its quirks, 10tacle's GTR is nonetheless a supremely engrossing, painstakingly intricate 
 sports car racing simulator that's aimed principally at the ultrahardcore simulation addict, yet 
 it wields enough versatility and fully customizable "detuning" to thoroughly indoctrinate newcomers 
 and even please steadfast arcade racers. Is it, as has been noted in prerelease hype, the modern 
 manifestation of Papyrus' remarkable yet crazily challenging and PC-killing 1998 benchmark Grand 
 Prix Legends? If played at maximum realism and graphical detail levels, perhaps. But there's so 
 much more to GTR that the parallel must end there. Certainly the developers at 10tacle Studios 
 have hit the ground running with this, their inaugural effort. If you have the computing speed 
 to run it and the patience to endure its few pitfalls, you likely won't find a better, more believable 
 non-NASCAR racer in today's market.  

          Featuring fully licensed, beautifully depicted automobiles and ultra-authentic physics, 
 GTR looks as good as it feels - if your computer is up to snuff, that is.     

  Unlike so many racing games, GTR does not focus on NASCAR-type "stock" cars or Formula 1-type open-wheel 
 cars. It instead keys on the FIA GT Championship, a European-based series featuring high-end, high-level 
 sports cars adapted for racing conditions. One of the many nifty perks of this approach is the 
 inherent variety. The game sports nearly 20 unique drivable racecars (the box says 70, but many 
 are simply repainted repeats of others) , including a wide assortment of Porsches, Vipers, Ferraris, 
 and Lotuses. Some are considerably faster than others, and that's why both the real-life series 
 and its fully licensed digital peer offer different classes. You decide which car and/or class 
 you drive.  

  And that's just one of a multitude of decisions you'll need to make before you hit the track. Indeed, 
 one of the most notable aspects of this, a game that gears up primarily to satisfy the yearning 
 of drivers who accept nothing but the most demanding parameters, is its approachability. This should 
 not be lost on disciples of games such as Need for Speed: Underground or other like-minded arcade 
 staples. To wit, GTR is not only one of the very best racing sims out there, but also one of the 
 best arcade racers.  

  Players that select "arcade" from the main menu are presented with a stripped-down and simplified 
 version of the game that abolishes nuisances, such as garage modifications, qualification runs, 
 race lengths, and other event parameter decisions. Arcade mode is further subcategorized into four 
 distinct classes, each of which delivers a slightly more authentic experience than the one before 
 it. The racing is a bit faster and far more forgiving than you'll find in the game's semipro and 
 simulation modes, though even at its most simplistic, arcade still manages to showcase 10tacle's 
 glorious, road-clawing physics model. Even in the easiest subcategory of all, aptly named "Sunday 
 driver," there's no mistaking that you're really driving a car that contacts the road at four separate 
 points.  

  10tacle does, however, enforce an engine limiter throughout arcade mode that keeps you from running 
 away from the field. The only way to rid yourself of that limiter is to leave the arcade appetizer 
 behind and begin sampling GTR's meat and potatoes.  

  At full bore and with all its numerous driver aids removed, GTR exhibits one of the most taxing, 
 complex, and sophisticated driving models ever concocted for a PC racing title. Floor it hard from 
 the start and you will most probably spin out. Leave your braking just a tad too late and you will 
 head offtrack. Hit a rumble strip or a rough stretch of pavement and you're jostled about your 
 cockpit like that little ball in a baby rattle. Bump a competitor a bit too heavily and you'll 
 feel the resulting handling issues as your speed increases down the next straightaway.  

  What is perhaps best about GTR is its subtlety and attention to detail. Rough pavement, wet-weather 
 handling, braking, accelerating -- it's all infused with so much intricate physics that most drivers 
 will have a tough time even coming to grips. Indeed, the GTR physics model is so good that many 
 may feel they need to experience the actual tactile sensations of g-forces just to be successful. 
 This can't happen of course, so the best approach is a smooth, unerring driving style, along with 
 total and complete concentration, particularly during the first few opening laps when your tires 
 are cold. You'll also need to quite seriously modify your technique when moving from one car to 
 another, because 10tacle has simply pulled out all the stops in trying to make them as distinctive 
 as possible.  

  But wait -- there are other answers, too. By pressing the "I" key, you can ask the game's artificial 
 intelligence to temporarily assume your driving duties. You can also request that your helpful 
 crew chief/spotter verbally describe any damage you've incurred. Or you can hit the Replay key 
 and monitor what the other guys are doing out there. In fact, when you're sitting in your paddock 
 during a practice or qualifying session, you can pretty much observe whatever or whomever you want 
 to observe via the game's stylish monitoring system. With all these accommodating perks, combined 
 with an incredible number of difficulty and realism adjustments and an ultracomprehensive garage 
 facility -- which thankfully offers numerous predevised setups -- patient drivers who want to succeed 
 will do so. Eventually.  

  Two final weapons in your arsenal come in the form of the MoTeC advanced dash logger and the MoTeC 
 interpreter. You'll find the former right there in the cockpit with you, spitting out essential 
 information and data that'll help you keep your bearings while you're on the track. The latter 
 is far more advanced and infinitely more intricate. By toggling the MOTEC button while in the paddock, 
 you'll open the external MoTeC interpreter application, where you can analyze virtually anything 
 to do with your last lap or any other lap you've run to that point in time. Inside, you'll see 
 a mind-bending assortment of facts, figures, graphs, and other visuals that deliver the inside 
 scoop on your car and driver's performance. You'll also realize that opening the interpreter sometimes 
 destabilizes GTR, thus forcing you to restart it. Regardless, serious gearheads will find much 
 to like here, even if the interpreter doesn't seem to interpret everything it should.  

          Sporting a sophisticated MoTeC digital display and a superb view of the action, the GTR 
 cockpit is a great place to be.     

  And don't think GTR is intended only for those who like to play alone. The game's multiplayer mode 
 permits up to 56 drivers to compete via LAN or Internet -- theoretically anyway. In practice, we 
 found stuttering and other frame rate problems when a dozen or more cars were on the track simultaneously, 
 particularly when grouped together. We had much more success with a six-player game, where the 
 only serious warping and momentary screen freezes occurred at the outset of an event.  

  It's worth noting that we attempted online play only after installing patch 1.4.0.0, which addressed 
 some of the earlier multiplayer issues. Still, the current online buzz would seem to indicate that 
 not everyone is enjoying their Internet racing. Premature disconnections, lockups, and other assorted 
 oddities are just some of the problems being bandied about.     

  If it's any consolation, 10tacle does seem interested in after-sales service. For example, ours 
 was just the latest in a rapid series of patches released for the game since its European introduction 
 late last year. Moreover, a freebie add-on entitled "King of the Ovals" was released just last 
 month, allowing drivers to ply their craft on a trio of imaginary NASCAR-type roundy-rounds more 
 familiar to stock car fans. Truth is that none of the ovals deliver the same edge-of-the-seat excitement 
 as the game's far more complex depiction of steeped-in-history road courses, such as Donington, 
 Monza, Spa, and Magny-Cours, especially if you're driving at a low difficulty level.  

          GTR's depiction of time of day and environmental variables is nothing short of stunning, 
 though both will heavily tax your computer's resources.     

  Furthermore, oval driving further exposes one of GTR's more glaring evils -- the inability of AI 
 drivers to effectively handle even partial track blockades. If you create an accident or merely 
 come to a stop anywhere on an oval (or a road course, for that matter) , you can clearly see a gaggle 
 of confused competitors slow to a crawl or stop right along with you, waiting patiently for you 
 to extricate yourself, even though there's plenty of room to squeeze by. On a more positive note, 
 oval racing in the Semi-Pro or Simulation levels with driver aids off can deliver some addictive 
 bumper-to-bumper action. Certainly the constant flow of traffic is something you'll rarely see 
 on the wonderfully rendered but somewhat limited selection of road tracks.  

  When not confronted with a semiblocked track, GTR's AI drivers are otherwise shockingly authentic. 
 They'll dip and dive and move around looking for openings in an eerie mimicry of their real-life 
 counterparts. They'll nudge and bump you -- especially if you've set their aggression level to "psychotic" -- and 
 they'll dice it up with you door-to-door, as if an expert human player were behind the wheel. They 
 don't exhibit the pack mentality common to so many other racing games, and they'll occasionally 
 hit the grass or the sand if pushed too hard.  

  GTR audio is far from pretty. And in a game that professes to be "the most realistic racing simulation 
 ever," it's a very good thing. Road noise is particularly extraordinary, barking and rumbling and 
 effectively translating the struggle of rubber as it fights to hold your car to the track. Tire 
 scrub is deadly authentic -- varying from moment to moment and always keeping you informed. Engine 
 notes and gearshifts are both exclusive to the type of car you're currently driving, and they're 
 utterly convincing. Downshifts in particular have a wonderfully grating, mechanical sound, especially 
 in some of the more esoteric vehicles.  

  Conversely, car-to-car contact is curiously subdued and certainly not in keeping with the damage 
 you may have incurred. Your crew chief/spotter is also on the quiet side, though he and virtually 
 every other segment of the audible landscape may be increased or decreased in the overall mix. 

  In a graphical sense, the game delivers a mix of goodies and is generally not a quantum leap forward 
 from other recent top-level sims. That's not necessarily a condemnation, because other recent top-level 
 sims have been pretty darn credible, but one of GTR's most conspicuous troubles is its hunger for 
 computing horsepower. This isn't just a graphical need either, as the game also gobbles up CPU 
 and memory for its ultrasophisticated physics modeling calculations.  

  Between that and what would appear to be inefficient usage of 3D acceleration resources, GTR will 
 exhibit occasional jumpiness and frame rate slowdowns on any machine that doesn't meet the  recommended 
  system requirements. You can forget the minimum requirements -- they surely must be someone's misguided 
 attempt at humor.  

  Moreover, antialiasing seems to activate and deactivate depending on the complexity of the current 
 scene. So while the game looks smoothly antialiased some of the time, it seems substantially more 
 ragged elsewhere. These graphical hassles are most evident at the start of a race, or at any other 
 time a large number of cars are grouped together, and the resulting impact can be sincerely frustrating. 

  The solution? Downgrading the number of cars into the teens or single digits is definitely one 
 of the best things you can do to salvage a good frame rate and maintain moderately high detail 
 levels. Or, if you have the financial wherewithal, you can upgrade your PC -- a 3.0GHz CPU, 1GB of 
 RAM, or a graphics card with at least 256MB of dedicated video memory are all great yet pricey 
 fixes. A substantially more cost-effective and realistic answer is to utilize GTR's massive number 
 of graphical tweaks to achieve a happy medium between beauty and function, or you can signal for 
 your artificially intelligent "codriver" to take the reigns during particularly jumpy segments. 
 The good news is that even on "low" detail levels, the game looks decent.  

  No matter what you do, you won't find perks, such as pooling or reflective water, lens flare, or 
 the highly sophisticated lighting effects of, say, EA's NASCAR SimRacing 2005. You will, however, 
 experience variable weather, which not only looks impressive, but also plays havoc on tire selection. 
 Pay particular attention to the degree of precipitation, because moderate rain isn't nearly as 
 dangerous as a heavy downpour. Indeed, 10tacle's modeling of wet-weather handling is downright 
 amazing.  

  Watching day turn into night and night turn into day is an equally striking event, particularly 
 as 10tacle has effectively captured all the associated nuances. One moment you're heading west 
 facing the gorgeous orangey hues of a setting sun, and the next you're driving into a considerably 
 darker eastern sky. The subtle variations along the way are simply beautiful.  

  Drivers who appreciate racing's inherent violence will enjoy the game's approach to breakable cars. 
 GTR cars shed parts, and those parts then bounce about the track and react with other automobiles. 
 This is a rarity in racing games, where detached hunks of car generally lose their physical properties 
 or harmlessly disappear. Granted, those parts break off along predetermined seams, but that's a 
 petty complaint. Otherwise, crashes produce enough view-obscuring thick, black smoke and bright 
 orange flames to be truly frightening.  

          Having popped his bonnet and two right side wheels after deliberately driving reverse track, 
 this driver suffers the cruel consequences of his stupidity.     

  Sadly, a far scarier proposition is waiting in GTR's interminably ponderous track-loading procedure. 
 Indeed, it's so bad at times -- particularly if you're entering a night or rain race with a lot of 
 competitors -- you may think your computer has stopped responding. That 10tacle couldn't somehow 
 deal with this issue before releasing the game is, to say the least, perplexing. And hey guys, 
 a printed manual that covers more than just the absolute basics would be nice, too.  

  Already hard at work at GTR's successor, GT Legends, and certainly offering plenty of postrelease 
 GTR-associated goodies, 10tacle would appear to be in the racing game for keeps. And that's very 
 good news for simulation fans, many of which continue to openly weep at the departure of Papyrus 
 Design Group from the sim landscape. Despite its blemishes, GTR is the breath of fresh air this 
 genre so badly needed. It is a great achievement that undoubtedly required a little more lab time 
 yet nevertheless expertly points the way to the future of realistic racing games.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (24 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: luismoreno1992
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  This one's a very good and solid game from simbin. I understand that this is one of their first 
 games (though not the first game by Image Space) . One of the good things in the game is the racing 
 action of course. Until they check this game out, they won't expect such a big crowded racing pack. 
 Over 70 cars to choose from and it is possible to race around 52 of them in a particular race. 
 The bad thing about this is that too much and lead to annoying lags. Unless your system has the 
 capacity for that, it is best to just stick to around half the field (25 cars) .
  
  A nice set of tracks would keep you happy in this kind of game. 10 tracks might be few, but good 
 enough for an action packed season. They're richly detailed as well. And the pit garages are just 
 as cool as the tracks. You can see the team running that particular area (ex - Scuderia team in 
 one garage, Labere Competition in the other.) Speaking of the pits, another bad thing about it 
 is that the pit crews are missing. And also, if you speed up the fuel usage, your opponents can 
 all pit at once and cause a pit frenzy. This can turn out bad if you make a stop and hand over 
 the wheel to your 2nd driver. If you're in the middle of it, your driver would end up stuck because 
 of the traffic and could put you out of the race for stalling.
  
  The Spa 24h is probably a good addition to the game. Taking advantage of the driver switch feature 
 in the game along with the save system, you can complete a full 24h race without worry or overnight 
 stress. This is what Gran Turismo 4 lacked (no offense) . Sure in GT4, there's a time acceleration 
 feature just like in this game, but why should you sit and wait for 8 to 24 hours just to win the 
 prize? Also, the time acceleration in GT4 is just up to x3. Here in GTR it can go faster. Why is 
 that?
  
  The Good: Great racing action. Good tracks and graphics and cars.
  
  The Bad: Some lags with the wrong specs, pit stop frenzy on scaled fuel and tyre wear. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rarson
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Did I get your attention? I'm tired of people fawning over this game.
  
  Does anyone remember Sports Car GT? I do. I bought it back in '99 when it was released. This is 
 the SAME GAME. No, seriously, I bought GTR 6 years later and found out that not only were the flawed 
 physics still COMPLETELY intact, but that the graphics engine hadn't changed much at all.
  
  Talk about overrated. And the best part? Simbin continues to release new "games" that consist 
 of nothing other than content tweaks to the same old GTR engine (which was basically the same old 
 Sports Car GT engine) .
  
  I got tired of Sports Car GT pretty quickly. Not because it was a sim; I love racing sims. I had 
 the Logitech Wingman Force wheel since before SGT and that was definitely the best way to enjoy 
 SGT, but it wasn't enough. The physics in SGT are akin to the physics of GT4, only skewed in a 
 different direction. Whereas GT4's cars seem to handle like bricks, SGT/GTR cars seem to handle 
 like tennis shoes on an ice rink.
  
  The people who fawn over these "pinnacles" of racing simulation apparently have never *actually* 
 driven a car around a race track. Game programmers seem to think that "simulation" means "hard 
 to drive". GTR is the most overrated piece of crap in racing simulation history, and I probably 
 wouldn't be saying that or complaining about it so bad if it weren't for the fact that I was tricked 
 into buying it FIVE TIMES. Yeah, see those titles to the left of my review, under "Games you may 
 like..."? GT Legends, RACE, Sports Car GT, GTR 2, and GTR are all the same game. If you're going 
 to buy one of them, I would suggest buying GT Legends. It has the best selection of the most interesting 
 cars out of all of them.
  
  Otherwise, I would suggest actually buying a decent game, like (ironically) Test Drive Le Mans 
 for the Dreamcast (easily one of the best handling and funnest racing sims ever made) or TOCA Race 
 Driver 3 (I haven't played any of the more recent Codemasters games, but I have been a fan of them 
 since TOCA Touring Car Championship... the *original* TOCA game released in 1997) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angelisaac
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Actually, I have no problem with devs striving for ultimate realism in games like this. What I 
 do mind is not making it approachable for the average joe gamer. This "game" looks, sounds, and 
 feels cool on the initial run-through. It's when you want to experience more than just the quickie 
 practice races that it falls flat. You must meet its expectations to experience the full game (i. e. 
 career mode) , and unless you're hardcore, you're in for an endless exercise in frustration. After 
 a few hours behind the wheel, I walked away in disgust. This could have been an awesome game, now 
 its back on my shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TunerSkyline92
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 27, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  This game is very difficuit, with keyboard will be worse. With wheel steering force would be better 
 then keyboard. Anyway, this game show the same how to drive in real live. Very difficuit, really. 
 There have different level, Acrade-Easy Level, you can play it easily. Pro-Semi- Bit hard bit easy, 
 you can play it bit easily. Simulation-VERY hard. VERY hard BUT FUN! And CHALLENGE!
  
  Go to another website, another website have different skins that you can download them and install 
 with different skins with your prefer or you can made your own, go to another website to read the 
 instruction to design the car.
  
  You may ask me about why rated worst on sound, because I am deaf, I cant hear everything, so I 
 dont know about sound.
  
  WORTHY TO PLAY!! DIFFICUIT BUT FUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dudezer88
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 17, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  I was amazed by this game the first time I played it. The first thing that strikes you is the authenticity 
 of it all. The second I started playing it I was startled by how realistic the physics are. This 
 is about as far from a Need For Speed arcade racer as you can get. The problem with this is that 
 it takes some getting used to in order to actually win races. Race experience changes drastically 
 based on which track you're on and what the weather is like. Grip is drastically changed with change 
 in temperature and of course if the track is wet, you'll lose grip very quickly. Unlike other simulation 
 racers however, GTR simulates wet weather racing physics in a much more believable way, you always 
 feel like you're on the edge of control and you'll often drift past that edge and end up in the 
 gravel. Again, it takes considerable time to learn all the elements of a certain track, the car 
 you're driving, and how the weather will affect your car. The difference in the way one car drives 
 in comparison to another is usually fairly understated in most driving games, but in GTR each car 
 has its own feel. All the cars of each class in the game have similar rates of acceleration and 
 top speed, but they all feel different from one another. When you step into the AWD Mid-Engine 
 Lamborghini Murcielago you won't mistake it for a RWD Front-Engine Viper, they look, sound, and 
 feel drastically different.
  
  On the technical side, GTR has some very good visuals. The game is lacking in some of the latest 
 effects seen in games but the high quality textures and models make the cars look really good. 
 The environments look great as well, especially with the dynamic weather the game implements. The 
 place where the game really shines is the audio department, engine noise is the best I've heard 
 from a game. It's loud, gritty, and realistic. Tire squeals, rain, road noise, and pit radio chatter 
 are all equally good. This is easily one of the most uncompromising racing simulators out there, 
 but it's still easily accessible and very fun. I really enjoyed the authenticity and realism in 
 this game. If you want a racing simulator that doesn't make compromises, this is the game for you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigboss33
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2006 12:43 am PT
Review:  gtr fia racing is a great racing sim and i think this game is good on any necessary thing. graphic 
 ,sound ,gameplay, control system ,anything. yeah i am talking about graphic ,its really good and 
 really satisfing but if you compare the graphic with the system requirements .i mean graphic is 
 simply best and since i am playing the game with 128 MB video card i say its great. another thing 
 is sound and thats something i have problem with and maybe its my soundcard's problem any way sound 
 is really good in game and very natural. the next thing is control system and its simple and great 
 you can control the car with ease, you can undersatnd me if you played the gran turismo. by the way 
 its a great game but the difficulty is to highand i thing its really hard ,you know i had problem 
 finishing the rookie cups at fisrt .game has a many kind of matchsand
  really good practice mode so you can learn a basic rules. that's all and at the end i msut say againg 
 if you lookin for a great racing simulator
  you're in the right place.
  
  
  
  if you lookin for a friend i am always here 
::::::

::::::
UserName: c_hodges
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 27, 2006 12:59 am PT
Review:  In a nutshell, this is one of the most realistic (if not the most to date) racing sims out there. 
 In the previous years, is sim racing was dominated by Papyrus and their NASCAR sims. SimBin stepped 
 up and revived the market with GTR. Gameplay includes singeplayer (which includes open practice 
 and race weekend) , replay analyzer, and multiplayer. There are 3 modes of racing to cater all racer 
 types. You'l get about 10 tracks and if you search around the internet, there are PLENTY of add-on 
 tracks to add to endless hours of racing. If you have a high end system, GTR will look breathtaking. 
 For a game released almost 2 years ago from this time of this writing, maximum graphic settings 
 look awesome. Damage modeling is quite extensive. You can see (and feel) track details such as 
 cracks in the track, tire skid marks left on the track well after they were initially laid. Car 
 sounds are virtually spot on. Each car has their own unique sound. Throw in a great set of 5.1 
 speakers and you'll surround yourself with 600+ hp cars all around you as you start a race. GTR 
 may not be for everyone. Simulation mode basically requires a decent racing wheel to run competitively. 
 This game is primarily driven by Euros and online gameplay is very competitive. The Euros you race 
 against are very serious about it- just dont rub them the wrong way. By now, GTR 2 is out and there 
 are mixed feelings. Some feel GTR 2 is easier and not as good as GTR. They feel SimBin dumbed down 
 the physics. I think it feels the same, MAYBE a tad grippier but nothing short of challenging. 
 I had alot of fun racing GTR, but it's time for this racing sim cat to retire GTR and move on. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gold90435
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 12, 2006 3:41 am PT
Review:  GTR FIA RACING (2005)
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 9/10
  ----------------
  Moral Values: 6/7
  Fun Element: 5/7
  Camera: 7/7
  Traditionality: 6/7
 
  Atmosphere: 6/7
  MPAA Rating: 7/7
  Plot: 7/7
  Music: 6/7
  Originality: 7/7
  Likeability: 7/7
  ---------------
  Overall: 9.3/10
  
  Genre: Licensed FIA GT and NGT Championship 
 Driving Simulator
  Classic: YES
  Worth Buying: YES
  Playing Frequency: Once every year
  
  + : licensed product with all the GT and NGT cars and drivers, all licensed tracks featuring 
 heavily detailed graphics, unbelieveably accurate gameplay simulation, fantastic detailed graphics 
 for cars and environment, memorable music, arcade semi-pro or simulation modes with customizable 
 realism settings and AI aggression, full championship atmosphere with all the weekend's practice 
 sessions and worm-ups
  
  - : starforce protection, no commentary, simulation is so hard that many people may give up before 
 learning how to drive properly, no championship option in arcade mode
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lasertoffe
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 7, 2006 8:48 am PT
Review:  Even if I am more into bumper to bumper racing, this is one of the best racing games I have ever 
 played. 
  
  One thing that struck me was that it was so hard right out of the box. That is always a good thing. 
 A game with a long learning curve is a game that lasts long. 
  
  The details in the simulation is breathtaking. If you run out in the gravel you will end up with 
 pebbles in the tires and that will make the car unsteady for a while. You REALLY feel when the 
 tires are hot or cold. They have gotten the angle of the pavement in the tracks right.
  
  I love this game. It's up there with Grand Prix Legends. If you like a simulator more than a game 
 then this is it for you. There's no Need for Speed style of "racing" in here... Not that there's 
 something wrong with NFS but GTR is a true racing SIM. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bumbay
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 17, 2006 8:16 pm PT
Review:  ahhhh.... gtr a great game mmmmm........ anyways gtr is a o. k gameO. K lets start with da gameplay. Well 
 it is a sim so it is goin to be hard but there is 3 modes arcade, pro and sim i do sim it is hard 
 but if u r good atit it is fun. graphics the game is so real lookin in-carviews, daylight but there 
 is a chath u have to have a good grphics card 4 good looks. sound is perfect. the bad u need 2 have 
 a good graphics card 2. loading time r long 3. multi player is bad bad bad. so gtr is a GOOD game 
 chek it out be4 u buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: il2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 4, 2006 9:48 am PT
Review:  Many game all claim to be a realistic but this no doubt is at the top for realism. Everything feels 
 so detailed, the cars and the track feel accurate. The tracks have minor bumps in certain and as 
 the track gets used the grove line, (the path the cars will always take around a corner) gets more 
 grip as rubber is laid and down and at the side rubber balls will collect up. You can see them 
 but if you go there you will feel the loss of grip.
  Here is a taste how detailed and well simulated this game is. The realism of this game is on par 
 or even better than papyrus Nascar games realism.
  Like all these games they all these hardcore sim games they are hard at full simulation but are 
 the most rewarding and very addictive. You'll just keep on trying to get better and when you do 
 you'll feel great. 
  There is an arcade mode for novices too but this isn't very long as it is aimed at sim mode. Also 
 there is semi-pro mode which an inbetween the two which can be good if your starting off but I 
 couldn't feel much difference and to me you better off starting straight away in sim mode because 
 you will be just wasting time.
  There is only one complaint and it's not to do with the game but the manual. There is nothing in 
 it and it is big problem for begginers. You won't know how to change your setup if your a novice. 
 It's not the only game. There seems to be a trend with games these days. I don't know if they don't 
 want to scare novices but to me it's more scarier not having a manual. If your new just get info 
 off the net instead.
  The main way you play this game is you first choose the realism of the game and then what you want 
 to do like championship, one weekend race, practice or the best bit multiplayer. I would say multiplayer 
 is no doubt the most fun but the other modes are great too. The most important issue is the AI 
 drivers which are really good. They will try and take over you like in TOCA but are more careful 
 like real drivers would be. 
  This game is a true sim as there is nothing to unlock, everything track and car can be used. Which 
 is just like your flight sims. The game as a similar attitude which is good. As every car is unique 
 which gives you in a way plenty of replay value.
  Now here is what I think is one of the best things about the game and that is the multiplayer. 
 It makes the whole experience more because your driving real people and as the game is so realistic 
 you never know what will happen because the guy you've been chasing infront of you might be a bit 
 quicker but he screw up and put you ahead of him. So you'll have some really exciting races. If you've 
 just started and you're not doing well there be plenty of people at your standard so you won't 
 feel bad at all. 
  You connect games on the net through the game it is really well done. The lobby will have all the 
 games showing and give you all the info you need. The ping value is actually unimportant as you'll 
 nearly always get good connections.
  A very useful thing about the game is that you can download other people setups which is very handy. 
 You'll need a good setup. The ones that are given on the game or okay but you be wanting to go 
 faster and finding a good one is easy. This is really useful for the novices who don't how to make 
 their own setup.
  The graphics of this game is good. It uses directx 8 only. The cars are very detailed and directx 
 8 does a good job with the reflections and so on. 
  All this realism and graphics do need a good PC to run it on but if you haven't you can turn down 
 the graphics and not miss too much.
  The sound for this game is great. All the cars have their own sound. The engine sound powerful, 
 the gear changing noises have this heavy duty "clank" noise, and the wheels protest when they're 
 abused. The sound is really good and is really useful to know how you are driving your car. When 
 you first play it you'll be turning the volume up.
  This game as got a good fan base and you can download skins, new cars and tracks. This game will 
 be here for a long time and if your a hardcore simmer you will be coming back to this game time 
 and time again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wasimos
Rating: 1.1
Date: May 7, 2006 1:48 am PT
Review:  I heard from every possible way, online about this game being so superb and stuff. This game just 
 not slip to make a good first impression, it keeps on dissapointing you more as u discover it further.
 
  
  Lets talk about the graphics first. According to the tech requirements of this game, expectations 
 naturally rise before you go for buying it. The game seriously lacks 'today's' technologies of 
 advanced graphics. 
  The fires through the exhausts during gear shifting are 2D textures! There are no pixel shaders 
 as well. The tracks equipped with poor details of service crew and a few branches of trees. You'll 
 really feel like playing an ancient game like Need for Speed 2 SE or so. There's more of it. The 
 screenshots of this game are not as bad as I may sound. The trick is there; the vehicles are med-low 
 polygoned ones with Hi-res textures. As the environments require extremely low texture memory, 
 the bulk goes for the vehicle.
  
  Movements, of the cars are not well detailed either. Talking about simulations; F1 Career Challenge 
 is a good example. And when you turn in the curves, the cockpit view is of no use, because the 
 hood keeps on rattling ur nerves, distracting your attention from the actual way the car behaves.
 
  
  I have played difficult games before, this is certainly not one of them. Its not a piece of good 
 product at all.
  
  Still, if you think of playing the game from rather a chase cam; the camera is not well positioned 
 either. In the whole game the only interesting thing was the TV cam mode. And surely you wont be 
 able to play like that.
  
  The huge time it requires to load a track is very surprising.. because NFS 2 didnt require more 
 than a second!
  
  Do not go for buying this game. It'll be a complete waste. If you still buy one... you'll agree 
 with me then.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maugt40
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 23, 2006 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Ive been a racing simulator fan since the days of Indianapolis 500 from Sierra through Grand Prix 
 Saga, NASCAR Series by Papyrus and Grand Prix Legends. I found this game far excellent from graphics 
 to physics emulation to car modelling. I congratulate the GTR team for the accomplishment. I personally 
 dont like much the situation of stepping up ladders, gaining credits and money to buy other cars, 
 unlockables, etc. Sometimes people cant spend 8 hours of play a day to get such a dreamt car, 
 but you would like to drive it as it is real. The hearth of a good racing simulation is that you 
 feel that you are driving a real car and the car looks beautiful. This game is more concentrated 
 in racing simulation itself, there are other games more biased to arcade type gaming, like GT4, 
 Forza Motorsport, Enthusia, which are excellent, plenty of entertainment, I love them,, but... GTR 
 is more focused on the pure spirit of GT racing, a great RACING SIMULATOR for true racing fans, 
 the challenge is there... in true race driving, great accomplishment. Im waiting the GTR2 sequel. 
 Also excellent job in GT Legends. Since I was a child I was a fan of Pedro Rodriguez in its Porsche 
 917. Itll be great a game called LeMans Legends isnt it ?. Im grateful that now several games 
 include the legendary and adorable FordGT40, the light blue one with GULF insignias. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silence_Toothy
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 13, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  you can't describe it till you played it, this game is pure fun.
  the sounds are so real, you feel like you are in the game, every sound sound so real and like it 
 was recorded right from the real world.
  if you don't have steering wheel don't buy this game, driving with keyboard will make you spin 
 1080 degrees instead of driving across the track.
  
  this game will allow you to compete against up to 52 in ONE track! 
  and racing the La Mans for 
 24 hours it's 600 laps, it has day, dusk, dawn and night.
  there aren't many cars in the game but every car will make you feel different
  there are even 
 Seat Toledo in it =0
  try the demo first this game is very hard and requires some skills that can be earned in 2-4 hours 
 playing the game, you need to be ready to waste time learning.
  just for your notice there aren't any guides in the game but there are some in-game help (like 
 braking help, steering help and more)
  there are 3 game modes: Arcade, Semi Pro, Simulation.
  Arcade is game made settings you just 
 select the car and the track, there are 5 types of settings each one is more difficult.
  the semi pro is the medium level you can choose your race setting (how many opponents, any in-game 
 help, starting position and choose if having qualify, warm up and practice) 
  this game could make revolution if it had bigger hype 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ntodder
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 12, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  Just a short review because I disagree with so many reviewers take on this game. Most people are 
 so much in awe of the great physics model and graphics in the game that they overlook the fact 
 that there is NO GAME. There is no single player game. What do I do now, what should I do next" 
 kept popping into my head as I tried to get into this game. Every racing game should have some 
 kind of challenge or ladder to work your way up. Because of this lack of Game, GTR sits unused 
 on my harddrive. I play TOCA2 and NFS: MW as well.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: olipog
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 30, 2005 3:01 pm PT
Review:  if you've got the patience, this game really stands out. At first, you will find youself doing 
 massive donuts and crashing into every wall in sight, but as you get used to it, it is fantastic 
 controlling the cars doing controlled slides through corners. If you simply enjoy destruction derby 
 type racing, this is also great fun, as the cars smash to bits. The only problems are the small 
 number of tracks: no silverstone, nurburgring (old) , but this is only a minor letdown, and also, 
 the spa 24hours: long, boring and with rather interesting lighting effects.. going straight from 
 night to day is strange.. still a very good game, well worth getting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yuyu125s
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 27, 2005 12:54 am PT
Review:  I come from Hong Kong , please forgive my poor english
  
  I think the game is the best sim racing game in game world right now, since Grand prix Legend, 
 the control and the sound is the most real simulation.
  
  The best element in the GTR is the sound engine, the F360 engine sound is same as Real that I heard 
 in Car DVD, real car and TV programme
  
  the in-car sound is prefect, even better than perfect, but the outer sound is not quite loud enough
 
  
  About the control system, it is quite hard to drive in simulation mode and closed all assist device.
 
  But you can feel the REAL
  
  Over all it is a SUPER racing game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackbirddh
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 15, 2005 12:14 pm PT
Review:  This game tops all race simulations I have seen (and I have seen a lot) . After Grand Prix 4, this 
 is the first race sim, that is worth playing (I know there are some real nice arcade racers out 
 there, but they are not sims from my understanding) . 
  
  When you start the game, select simulation mode, chose a car and track, and go out on the track, 
 the first thing you are going to do is ... spin. After a while, you will be able to reach the first 
 corner and will ... leave the track. After some serious tries you will be able to finish a lap 
 and realize, that all the A. I. racers are far off concerning lap times and if you compare yourself 
 to others online ... you will see, you don't stand a chance. 
  
  So now comes the hard part ... learn the tracks and practice them. ... get a feeling for the controls 
 of the game. If you use a FF Wheel you soon start to feel the track, not only the bumps (that's 
 easy) , but also when and where the car looses traction, and slowly ... very slowly, you will find 
 the limit. The Force Feedback effects are just great. You feel the engine in the wheel, bumps, 
 the scrubbing of the tires on the track. You fell the line and when you leave it, and just like 
 in real racing, you will realize that off the line there is almost no grip (and you will crash 
 again) . 
  
  The physics of the game are so realistic, that is just pain as hell. This is for 2 reasons: 1st 
 ... you must understand some of the physics of a racecar, and 2nd ... you only see the consequences 
 (the car dips and hops) , but you don't feel it, like in the real racecar. The physics in the game 
 are as unforgiving than the real thing, but you are limited in the feedback you get by the screen 
 and the FF wheel. So (at least from my perspective) the game appears to be much harder to race, 
 than a real racecar. If you would sit in a real F550 in Spa, you won't crash as easily (but maybe 
 you wouldn't be so fast either) . Whatever ... this game is the closest to real racing, that a game 
 ever has got. 
  
  This game is only for race addicts who want to have something realistic. If you are willing to 
 spend a lot of your spare time in acutally training a PC game, this is the right thing. You will 
 improve and get faster, and step by step you will understand why. For example you have to learn, 
 that for getting Blanchimont right in Spa, you have to understand, that you need to brake while 
 steering in, in order to shift weight to the front wheels, so its not so much important, to brake 
 late and hard, to get the corner, but to brake in a swift way, while steering in ... this will 
 make you fast. 
  All these experiences will help you improve, and you can also learn somthing by watching other 
 racers online or talking to them in the chat. 
  
  The online gaming is a bit jumpy, but OK. However, on the public server the races often don't last 
 longer than 5 laps, because the game is so unforgiving, that until then even the fast guys have 
 crashed and are out of the race. In the leagues, this seems to be better, but I haven't tried one, 
 because I don't have enough time. 
  
  Besides the racing, there is lot of realistical tuning and setup work you can do with each car. 
 Setting up the car corretcly can approve lap times, but usually training will help more (at least 
 at the beginning) . The standard setups, that come with the game are OK, but a bit conservative, 
 so you can go fast, but don't crash to easily (riding height is the major factor here ... lower 
 makes you faster, but if you hit the gas to much on a bump ... you'll spin) 
  
  Summary: 
  If you are race addict and have a lot of time, this thing is right for you. If you 
 want to play a game ... stay away ... and better game NFSMW. (I play both) . This the 1st game I 
 bought for a very long time and it is worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stas29
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 28, 2005 1:10 pm PT
Review:  FIA GTR is the most realsitc racing simmulation game made thus far. It contains ALL licenced cars 
 and is configurable from a beginer to an advanced racer. What makes this game even more realistic 
 is that it includes MOTEC software, yes, it is the same analysis software that is used in REAL 
 racing. The graphcs is superb in this game, and the car physics is the most realisitc of any racing 
 game. Well, unless you don't get bored with Nascar SimRacing where you get bored going in cirlces. 
 This game has 3 racing modes: Arcade, Simi-Arcade, and Simmulation. In Arcade mode, most of the 
 real life handling characterisitcs of all cars dissapear. It very similar in handling to the old 
 racing games made by SEGA. In semi-racing mode you actualy need to slow down when turning and use 
 brakes when needed. In Simmulation mode you actualy need to master all of the REAL life handling 
 characteristics which are specific to every car. You need watch out not to accelerate to fast because 
 if you do it will make your tires too hot and will considerebly decrease performance. After you 
 master game, you will enjoy taking you skills online racing against other pros.
  
  This game deserves a solid 9 score!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enesjusufi
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2005 8:33 am PT
Review:  If you are looking for a Car Simulator then this is it...... This is the best Car simulator that 
 you will ever find... The simulator is tweaked and maintained by REAL Racing drivers who helped 
 with making the Cars turn right, sound right, feel right even the game to be exactly like it is 
 in reality!!! The Car setups is tweaked by MOTEC (which is the real Program racers use in reality!!)
 
  The SOUND of the Cars makes your hair on the Neck stand when you step on the gas on that GROWLING 
 V12 ENGINE!!! All the Tracks are 100% Accurate, like the Monza, Nurburgring, Barcelona and many 
 more... cars like Ferrari, Lambourghini, Porsche, Salleen, Viper will bring you Joy and orgasms!! 
 :)
  
  GO BUY NOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daniel1919
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 18, 2005 12:51 pm PT
Review:  When I first played this game the realism of the cars was sensational and great fun. I was looking 
 for an ultimate realistic driving sim and at first I would agree. You understand that you are driving 
 car and going over bumps etc. 
  Though "realism" can get annoying because the car is very sensitive which I would agree is pretty 
 realistic but when it takes two weeks to be able to drive a car and keep on the road but then to 
 compete with AI's lap times is very hard. If you play and game after a couple of weeks and you 
 can't do a full race in sim mode regurally there isn't much fun in it. If wanna enjoy this game 
 just concentrate on this game. 
  This game is only for the hardcore driving simmer. You need a good steering wheel and play with 
 the sensitive and other input setting as it can make a huge difference.
  When you go online you can see how many people can't keep the car on the track for a whole lap. 
 After racing for real life I don't agree it is that realistic but it is a step in a good direction. 
 
  Except for the diffuculty the graphics are nice. The graphics only use directx 8 and you can tell 
 but it still looks good due to car models details and using directx 8 to it's full. Though to put 
 full settings you need a beefy system but the good side is lower settings won't be noticeable.
 
  All the options for gameplay are typical and there's not much else to say about the game.
  
  My best advice is wait till GT Legends comes as the company is spending more money on it, the 
 graphics will use directx 9 and it's already getting great news.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shavedman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 13, 2005 1:45 pm PT
Review:  GTR is simply the best racing game period. The best graphics ever in a game (2048 X 968) at 75MHZ. 
 You will need a powerful computer to run it at full graphics. (I have a 3.4 GHZ, 3 GB RAM, 256 
 PCI EXPRESS video card) . 
  
  The racing physics are incredible. It really make you beleive you are racing a car from the FIA 
 GT Championnship. 
  
  You can play online or against the AI. By the way, the AI in GTR is very impressive. It reacts 
 realisticly to your every moves. 
  
  I recommend downloading numerous patches or addons from different websites to race on more tracks 
 and modify some caracteristics of the game. 
  
  YOU have to race the Maserati MC12. It is simply a Ferrari Enzo modified by Maserati to be even 
 more faster. Like the Enzo isn' t fast enough!!!!!! (Not on the original version, has to be downloaded)
 
  
  Go to ---- http://www. gtrresource. com/ 
  http://www.10tacle. com/gtr-game/en/index. php? Homepage
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazymadtuna
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 1, 2005 9:03 pm PT
Review:  The Game
  
  Man, GTR has made me look at racing games in a different way. This is by far the most realistic 
 racing game I have ever played to date. Nothing comes close to comparison in terms of car physics, 
 and how the car behaves. This game makes GT4 and Forza look like arcade games, and you will truely 
 find out how forgiving GT4 and Forza are. In GTR if you do not have your assists on, GOOD LUCK, 
 because you wont make it back to the pit lane. This game is not a racing game, this game is a simulator, 
 its just that intense. Your not going to get behind the wheel and fly by your competitors, instead, 
 your going to get spanked on a consistent basis until you truly learn ins and outs about your car. 
 
  
  This game is not forgiving in the slightest bit. If you push to hard in a corner, your going over 
 the turn, if dont downshift correctly and get the revs low enough, your car is going to spin before 
 you complete your turn. There is little room for error, infact no, let me take that back, there 
 is NO room for error, and thats what makes this game so difficult. This is the most difficult racing 
 game you will play, hands down, and if your not into fine tuning the car, sitting in the middle 
 or back of a race pack, then I dont see you enjoying the experience that much. The learning curve 
 for this game is ridiculous, it reminds me of the aliens game on the ps1 (That game was impossibe 
 to beat) . If your not going to spend hours upon hours driving one car, then your not going to get 
 that far, because each car handles differently.
  
  The Graphics
  
  The Graphics are much improved from the demo, with more polish, and more reflections, but the graphics 
 leave much to be desired. The cars are beautiful in the final build, but SinBin have failed to 
 make the environments look nice. The tracks look boring, and the backgrounds are dull when you 
 compare them to either GT4 or Forza, and those games happen to be on consoles, hmmm. By pc standards, 
 the graphics fail to match the depth you get out of Nascar Sim 2005 and Richard Burns rally. The 
 graphics are far from mind blowing, but they do give a accurate representation of the tracks. It 
 would just be nice to see the road shimmer in rain when the light hits the wet pavement, it just 
 adds to the experience. The graphics do not take anything away from the experience, and when you 
 start racing with +30 cars onscreen, who cares.
  
  Sound
  
  Cant complain about the sound, the cars sound good, the engine sounds seem spot on. The sound affects 
 are on par with every other game. The sounds are exceptional when you are in the in-car view, especially 
 those ferrari's, I need get myself one of those. The sound is definately one of the best aspects 
 of the game. 
  
  Gameplay
  
  Gameplay is a touchy issue on this game, the reason I say thiat is because you really need a wheel 
 of some sort to truly enjoy the game. The keyboard does not cut it, no matter which way you slice 
 it. This game requires precise imputs to take full advantage of all the options available to you. 
 
  
  The keyboard is unplayable, and if you dont plan on getting a wheel, then I strongly suggest that 
 you dont waste your money purchasing the game.
  
  An analogue stick is another option. I tested out my ps2 controller, and I was surprised how sensative 
 the analogue stick was. The analogue stick was just as responsive as the racing wheel, but you 
 lose the sense of feeling that your controlling a car. On the analogue stick, I noticed it was 
 hard to play with the accelarator and brake at the same time, especially with the accelarator and 
 brake mapped onto the right analogue axis. Theres no doubt in my mind you can get really good with 
 an analogue stick, but I dont see people running as good times with it, simply because the feeling 
 is not as natural as turning a wheel. That said, an analogue stick is 20 times better than using 
 a keyboard.
  
  The driving wheels are the best way to go, and since I have a force-feedback and non-force-feedback 
 wheel, I can inform you on what to expect if you plan on getting a wheel. I'll kindly start of 
 with the non-force-feedback logitech wheel. The non-force-feedback is an excellent purchase. The 
 logitech wheel responded with a great amount of accuracy. I felt in total control of the car, and 
 since the wheel has very little play, I was consistently running better and better laps. The funny 
 part is, the accelarator and brake are positioned in a more comfortable position than the DFP logitech 
 force-feedback wheel, which was surprising since this wheel is a cheaper build. The non-force-feedback 
 wheel to me seems like the best purchase, its cheap, I got mine brand spanking new for $15, its 
 sturdy, the response is excellent, and the feeling of being in control of the car is irreplaceable. 
 The only thing negative I can say about this wheel is that the centering is not so great at times 
 because it uses springs to center itself, unlike the magnetic motor in the DFP logitech wheel.
 
  
  Onto the beast, the DFP logitech wheel. A yes, the much touted wheel. All I can say is you get 
 what you pay for. There a plenty of reviews on this wheel, and its for a good reason. The difference 
 here is that the DFP truely immerses you into the game. You feel every bump on the track, seriously, 
 I never knew how bumpy race tracks were. You are constantly fighting with the wheel, and feeling 
 is truly exhilarating, its like a work out, and I think I have shed some pounds messing around 
 with is bad boy. If you have the cash to burn, then you wont go wrong with force feedback, its 
 an exceptional feature, but again you wont die without it.
  
  As long as you have a deseant wheel, this game will be fun to play
  
  Internet
  
  Fun, 
 fun, fun, fun. This is the most exciting part of the game. Its fun to see how much people suck 
 on the internet, but its all in good fun. All I can say is when you have 30-40 people on one server, 
 you have a race. This is what I have been dying for in racing games. Gone are the days of 6-8 cars 
 on a track. I've had so much fun talking to the people online, competing for track position, fighting 
 for that no1 spot, and as usual, theres always a few drivers who show me whats up. Its also nice 
 that most of the servers put damage on, so you are really careful about what you do. Its fun watching 
 2 players go at it and crash, with the hood flying in one direction, the tire bopping in another. 
 It really sucks if someone slams straight into you, because if your engine dies, or your starter 
 fails, its game over buddy. Theres no other game that can match GTR's online. This is the best 
 racing game online ever, and by far the most competitive.
  
  Value
  
  This all the game comes down to the value. If you have a wheel and the internet, this game is a 
 must buy, who thought racing with over 30 people would be so much fun online, and the wheel as 
 I stated before adds another dimension to the game.
  If you dont have the internet or a wheel, I wouldnt suggest not buying the game, because its wouldnt 
 be any fun at all.
  
  Things That stick out
  
  Weather changes-awesome
  Night time- wow, hope I dont hit a deer
  1 to +40cars- depending on what vid card you have, you 
 can put a crazy amount of cars
  Car selection- Finally i can race a lamborghini against a ferrari
  In-car-view- Exceptional, 
 you feel as if you driving the actual car, Amazing.
  Online- need I say no more, ONLINE, baby
  Full Damage- is that my wheel rolling of to the side, 
 hey, thief!!!, come back with my wheel, arrrrr!!!!!, frigging sports fans
  
  
  I hope you enjoy this game as much as I do
  Keep racing
  
  Oh, and one last warning, this 
 game is EXTREMELY DIFFICULT, and that is not an understatement.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tirreg
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 22, 2005 5:31 pm PT
Review:  In 1998, Papyrus released a driving simulation by the name of Grand Prix Legends. It completely 
 turned the driving sim community on it's head with a level of detail in the physics engine that 
 allowed the player to experience what it was like to drive one of those unruly machines at the 
 edge of their performance envelope. After days of mastering the techniques, it proved to be the 
 most satisfying and truly adrenaline inducing experience for fans of auto racing. Following in 
 the footsteps of Papyrus, 10Tacle and SimBin have released what is a stunning simulation of the 
 FIA GT series cars: GTR.
  
  10Tacle has created in GTR, the most realistic simulation of race car driving thus far. If you 
 want to experience the thrill of barreling out of parabolica at Monza in a 600+ horsepower super 
 car - with all the tactile and audio/visual nuance of the real thing, a good force feedback wheel 
 and GTR are your ticket to paradise.
  
  For the uninitiated, this program is more akin to Microsoft Flight Simulator than it is to Need 
 For Speed in terms of it's general concept. The only things here to accomplish are to master the 
 cars and win races against the CPU cars or against other drivers during online play. Everthing 
 the game has to offer is immediately available to you. Just to be clear - there's no story - no 
 unlockables - no real campaign (save the season mode, which is basically driving the courses in 
 the correct order of the FIA GT season.)
  
  The game features 10 tracks out-of-the-box. They are the ten tracks for the 2003 (?) FIA season 
 - I'm fairly certain. Also available for free download are three oval tracks for a different experience.
 
  
  Also included with the game is the actual MOTEC software that you can use to analyze the telemetry 
 data from the race cars. No this is not a fudged simulation of the software - it is the real thing!! 
 GTR actually creates telemetry data just as a real race car does (tweaking the car setup is a huge 
 part of the experience) . The MOTEC software doesn't know the difference. Apparently, drivers have 
 compared the data from real-world driving with the sim data and they are eerily similar - to the 
 point that the drivers can use GTR to try the cars with different setups and collect useful data!!
 
  
  If you are a racing fan you've most likely dropped your mouse at this point and went out to buy 
 GTR - which you undoubtedly should. If your not a racing fan (that's wants to experience the real 
 thing) , you probably will find GTR an unending source of pure frustration, played on anything but 
 "arcade mode," which eventually you would want to get past.
  
  For racing fans, as of this moment, this is the ultimate challenge. I bought Forza Motorsport for 
 Xbox and I've got a 53" HDTV and great surround sound - but I can't even get myself to touch it 
 again. GTR has ruined my appreciation of just about everything else in the genre. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
