-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Guild Wars
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/guildwars/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Well-designed, interesting skill system and action-packed combat.
 Tons of content--huge volume of cooperative and competitive activities.
 Lavish presentation makes the whole world of the game look alive.
 Technically marvelous--runs fast and smooth, loads almost instantly.
 Has something for just about everyone.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 It can be difficult to find a good group of willing players for cooperative missions.
 The gameworld is beautiful, but lacks cohesion.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  4, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.2
Critic Score: 8.9, 56 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 17,314 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: NCsoft
Developer: ArenaNet
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Apr 26, 2005 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's a very impressive game that's rewarding on many different levels and can be tremendously appealing 
 for any number of reasons. 

  While it's tempting to compare Guild Wars to any number of other fantasy-themed role-playing games, 
 there's really never been anything quite like it before. It innovatively and successfully combines 
 many of the best, most addictive properties of action RPGs, online RPGs, and competitive multiplayer 
 games in one beautifully produced package, which offers a tremendous lasting value yet none of 
 the monthly fees typically associated with online-only games. The first title from developer ArenaNet, 
 Guild Wars threatens the entire online RPG establishment with its bold design. More importantly, 
 it's a very impressive game that's rewarding on many different levels and can be tremendously appealing 
 for any number of reasons.  

          In the world of Guild Wars, the men are men, and the women are runway models. Oh, and it's 
 awesome.     

  In Guild Wars, you play as a hero from Ascalon, your typical fantasy province that's fallen on 
 hard times, thanks to relentless assaults from fearsome creatures called the charr. Ascalon seems 
 huge and wondrous as you begin to explore it and its outskirts. But it turns out to be literally 
 just a tiny portion of the richly detailed and shockingly gigantic world of Tyria, which you'll 
 explore during the course of an adventure that's truly epic. Meanwhile, the other half of the game 
 consists of competitive battles between teams of players, set in various types of arena events. 
 It's action packed, it's tactical, and it's sporting. It's definitely more involved than a pick-up-and-play 
 first-person shooter, but it's relatively easy to learn and certainly difficult to master. Unlike 
 many other online RPGs, which often take a lot of flak from their audiences for lacking a definitive 
 endgame, Guild Wars gives the impression that it was built with the endgame competition as a primary 
 concern. However, one of its big surprises is just how much noncompetitive content there is. Even 
 if you have no interest in player-versus-player battling whatsoever, Guild Wars will still provide 
 you with more than 100 hours of quality gameplay, which you can tackle either alone or together 
 with other players pretty much every step of the way.  

  The core gameplay in Guild Wars is reminiscent of action RPGs like the Diablo series. It lets you 
 navigate countless big, winding maps filled with enemies and treasure, and combat is frequent and 
 fast. You can't climb or fall from ledges, so at times, the design of the maps feels pretty contrived. 
 However, the generally linear layout mostly just helps to keep you focused. The game's interface 
 is clean and intuitive, and offers a few neat perks like a minimap that you can scribble on to 
 help you communicate with your team. You have free reign over the camera perspective, so you may 
 choose to play from a first-person viewpoint all the way on out to a bird's-eye view. Although, 
 a third-person behind-the-back angle seems to deliver the best of both worlds, because you'll get 
 a close look at the game's gorgeous graphics and plenty of room to see on your character's periphery. 
 When you see an enemy (whether it's a computer-controlled creature or an opposing player) , you 
 may target it with a hotkey or a mouse click, and then attack it with your ranged or melee weapons. 
 Most of your combat will be focused on using your different skills, though.  

  You can have exactly eight skills readied at a time, which correspond to the number keys on your 
 keyboard. Which eight skills you bring to battle and which skills you discover during your adventure 
 is really at the heart of what makes Guild Wars such a compelling experience. It's what levels 
 the playing field in PvP and keeps the action manageable even when things get really intense. Each 
 of the game's six character classes has 150 unique skills, and each one has its own little icon 
 graphic, description, and purpose. For the most part, skills are not inherently better or worse 
 than other skills -- they're just different. Depending on how you've developed your character or 
 your role in a player team, the skills will be better or worse for your circumstances. Many skills 
 have obvious uses, while many are much more specific to certain types of situations. Some will 
 serve you better when exploring the role-playing portion of the game, while others will be better 
 suited to PvP battling against real opponents. It's definitely an interesting selection process. 
 It shares a lot in common with collectible card games, and similarly offers a very satisfying reward 
 whenever you discover that great, new skill that makes you feel much stronger while also causing 
 you to make significant changes to your overall strategy. Guild Wars' skill system is a resounding 
 success.  

  Creating a character is a quick, straightforward process of choosing a gender, appearance, and 
 character class. You'll quickly notice the game's striking character design right from this point. 
 Even prior to that, though, you're asked to make an important choice: whether to build a standard 
 role-playing character or a player-versus-player-specific character. If you choose the former, 
 you start out as a first-level neophyte on a foreboding day in Ascalon's history. And if you choose 
 the PvP option, you skip all the way through the 100-odd hours of questing and storyline and begin 
 with a high-level character decked out with powerful equipment. He or she can then jump right into 
 some competitive matches, but cannot participate in any cooperative gameplay.  

          An absolutely huge story-driven role-playing adventure awaits you, though you can cut straight 
 to the player-versus-player skirmishing if you prefer.     

  The idea behind these two options is pretty obvious. Players who'd rather not muck around with 
 leveling up and pretentious fantasy storytelling needn't even bother with it, and they can instead 
 jump straight into the competitive game. Or, players who want to get their feet wet before diving 
 into PvP combat, or who want to ignore PvP entirely, may do so during the course of the adventure. 
 It's not quite this cut and dried, though, because Guild Wars  wants  you to experience both aspects 
 of the game, regardless of whether you think you do or not. Specifically, if you cut straight to 
 the PvP, you'll find that the vast majority of the different character classes' skills are locked 
 away, waiting to be discovered during the course of the role-playing portion. Custom weapon parts 
 can also be found in the campaign, which can later be used in PvP.  

  So, it's possible that players expecting Guild Wars to be a light and breezy experience will be 
 disappointed, because this is a deep, enthralling, and potentially very time-consuming game. While 
 combat in Guild Wars rewards skillful planning and coordination between players, many of the best 
 Guild Wars players will surely be the ones who invest the largest number of hours into the game -- not 
 only honing their talents, but also seeking out the best skills and equipment in the role-playing 
 portion. Fortunately, the role-playing portion is on equal footing with the PvP, so chances are 
 you'll enjoy the opportunity to experience both, and appreciate the game all the more for it.  
    

  Guild Wars is one of those games that you can easily play for long stretches while losing track 
 of the hours -- suddenly it's dark out, or light out, as the case may be. However, in contrast to 
 many other RPGs, there's very little about Guild Wars that inherently demands a lot of your time 
 all at once. It was clearly designed from the ground up to allow you to play in brief spurts, for 
 minutes or maybe for an hour at a time. The PvP battles are action-packed affairs along the lines 
 of what you'd expect from a competitive shooter. The role-playing quests and cooperative missions 
 are typically less than an hour long. Also, you never need to worry about saving your progress 
 or logging out in a safe area, because you can quit whenever you want to, and you'll always restart 
 in the nearest town with all your skills and experience intact. There are no severe or permanent 
 penalties from getting killed -- just a temporary hit to your maximum health and energy levels that 
 goes away when you get back to town.  

          Guild Wars offers single-player, cooperative, and competitive experiences each in turn. 
     

  From a technical standpoint, the game is a marvel. It boots up and quits out instantly, downloads 
 software updates quickly and automatically, and runs wonderfully in a window if you prefer (you 
 do need to be connected to the Internet whenever you're playing, though) . Unlike in other online 
 RPGs, logging in and quitting out is painless, and your character is also capable of instantly 
 teleporting between all the cities and towns you've ever visited, at any time. These locations 
 effectively serve as lobbies, and they're packed with players looking for other players to be their 
 teammates. Or, if you can't find a good player team (or don't want to) , the cities and towns let 
 you fill out your team with computer-controlled henchmen.  

  For better or worse, these henchmen aren't as good as the real thing. Later on in the adventure, 
 they'll be ill equipped to help you through some of Tyria's most dangerous environments. We also 
 had them bug out on us on several occasions, either by getting stuck in the environment or flying 
 off to who knows where. But the game generally makes it really easy to start and restart quests 
 and missions, and finding willing players to work with is also fairly simple, which makes the occasional 
 problems with the henchmen easy to dismiss. There's another issue that has to do with the game's 
 cities and towns, which is that they can be overwhelming because they can be filled with so many 
 players. There's no simple, obvious way to get into a group, short of clicking on the different 
 people you see and then clicking a little plus icon that invites them to join you, so chat channels 
 tend to be filled with requests from players looking for teammates. Also, there's no easy way to 
 compare your pending quests with your teammates' pending quests short of just chatting about it, 
 so it can be especially difficult to find a willing group to go questing out in the wilderness, 
 versus taking on the cooperative missions that start out in town. And there's some slight but noticeable 
 lag when you type chat messages. For a game with player community at its heart, Guild Wars seems 
 somewhat devoid of amenities for enabling players to meet one another.  

  Furthermore, since Guild Wars makes it so easy to jump around the world, as well as to start up 
 and exit out of the game in the first place, the player community doesn't exactly seem warm and 
 friendly, on the whole. For example, if a quest or mission doesn't go well, random teammates are 
 liable to quit without any warning, which can be frustrating to those left behind. As with just 
 about any online game, the solution to this sort of issue is to play with friends instead of with 
 strangers. To this end, Guild Wars actually has another leg up on most online RPGs, in that it 
 lets you freely communicate with any other player in the gameworld, while most online RPGs limit 
 you to communicating only with players on the same server, which contains its own instance of the 
 gameworld.  

          Many of the cities in Guild Wars are absolutely packed with other players.     

  Guild 
 Wars uses a different sort of technology. Towns and cities that have too many players in them are 
 automatically split up into "districts," akin to separate chat lobbies, while missions and wilderness 
 areas are always uniquely generated for the player team, so you'll never encounter random players 
 or seas of already-killed monsters when you're out exploring the world. For the most part, that's 
 great. But to an extent, it's actually a double-edged sword, since the fairly abstract manner in 
 which the gameworld is set up diminishes some of the sense of immersion. It's difficult to fully 
 appreciate the scale and the dangers of the world when you can freely and instantly teleport between 
 the areas marked on your map. In other words, Tyria doesn't feel quite as cohesive as it could 
 have, with the extremely brief but frequent loading screens between maps, and the fact that the 
 towns and cities are all inundated with out-of-character banter. Additionally, the key story sequences 
 are presented in full speech, which is nice, but most of the questing is conveyed through small 
 text-based pop-up windows, which aren't very engrossing, especially not in the context of the game's 
 otherwise-outstanding presentation. For that matter, the rewards for the game's dozens of different 
 side quests often aren't even pertinent to your character. So the questing system can sometimes 
 seem unfocused. It's mostly just there to give you more of a reason to explore the gameworld at 
 your own pace -- which, luckily, is enjoyable enough on its own.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (931 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Moogle11293
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 17, 2009 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Well where to begin, I already own all of the guild wars, one thing to get out of the way, so by 
 reviewing this, I count them all, because by god, you need to have them all for the game to be 
 the least bit playable.
  
  Guild Wars seems to get a lot good credit, I can understand that, some aspects of the game are 
 quite well done, but really, after 2 years, this is all I can say about this game.
  
  Graphics:
  Although guild wars has a very clean engine, its notoriously boring, if you can find 
 any screenshots you will notice they are quite blank, although some have some detail about the 
 map design at hand, but its thoroughly useless, you cannot explore those areas most the time, when 
 you get to them they will just appear drab, or anything else.
  Game runs perfect at a medium-high end system
  that includes everything on high and and maxed 
 out anti aliasing etc.
  
  As said the landscape quickly draws to extremely boring.
  Character details is very good, and weapons and armor usually look great, (note: the dye system 
 for dying weapons and armor is very good too) Players ontop of that do too, although there will 
 be some gripes about ugly faces at the creation menu, lack of customization, but those can sometimes 
 be ironed out, although I'm a griper, and for me I needed for beauty to my characters. 
  Spells effects are very bad, sometimes you wont even notice that a spell has just went off, and 
 sometimes if you have never seen the game before, you might just wonder what you are seeing... because 
 it probably doesn't do what you think it does.
  Although all these almost minimal particle effects and effects of any kind do aid performance, 
 but as this engine has aged in which it obviously has, in the end some of it just doesn't look 
 at all too good or convincing.
  And there is no blood, not one bit, giving this game an easy low age rating. No violence really, 
 when you hit someone bright flashes come out, but dark colored etc, so nothing special on your 
 rewards for smashing someones face in.
  
  Controls:
  Controls work normally, yet if your lagging you can expect the usual. Skills are easy to reach 
 to, weapons are easy to reach, all menus are tabbed to a single button, and so few a menu's makes 
 it all the easier, you can even go into options and modify your layout visually. 
  
  Sound:
  Sound is quite bad, the environmental effects are usually well... environmental to say 
 the least but often repeated, but spell effects sound like crap, some spells dont stand out at 
 all, and just all blend in, so all the spell sounds blend in, so I'm just gonna leave pretty much 
 70% of all skills alone for sound effects, on the other end are sounds made from weapons, they 
 are good for the standard, nothing special but do their job especially the clanging sound of a 
 sword from that final drum beat of killing someone with a hammer. 
  
  Gameplay: 
  Here's where it all just goes to hell, as if the blank appearance of guild wars wasn't enough, 
 the game sure as hell will.
  This game, can get you so frustrated its unbelievable, its unreal.
  
  Firstly I purchased all 
 3 (at the time) Guild Wars, under the idea that I will get more features, but I will be dreadfully 
 warned later on, the effects that would happen if I did not. 
  (3 gw - Prophecies (Guild Wars) , Factions, Nightfall.
  in order of appearance)
  Basically you 
 can just buy one of them, and can still play that campaign of guild wars, sounds alright yeah ?
 
  
  I made a Prophecies character... The hardest place to start.. and ironically, the first GW.
  
 
  Before I start my novel let me cover the weapon types
  these are all the weapons in the game if you have all 3 GW.
  Swords Moderate damage, moderate 
 speed.
  Hammers High damage, low attack speed
  Axes Moderate/high (both) , moderate speed.
  Daggers Low Damage, Very high speed.
  Staves Low 
 damage, high speed.
  Wands Low damage, high speed.
  Bows A few kinds of bow, with varying attack/speed
  Spears Moderate damage, high attack speed.
 
  Scythes High damage, low attack speed.
  
  Done.
  Cant dual wield, weapons have requirements.
  Example you must put 9 into sword skill (warrior 
 only)
  to use a sword.
  Requirements differ (req) some weapons drop as req13 which arnt very valuable (you can only upgrade 
 a skill to a max of 12, to get 13 you must add a rune, which are extremely expensive if your starting 
 the game)
  ... Even shields have requirements, if they can be counted as weapons.
  Weapons can get customized too, so if they do (Giving you a 15% bonus in damage or something.) 
 only that character can use them.
  
  During prophecies, you start in some wonder land like place, where its all like Elder Scroll: Oblivion, 
 and all happy and everyone has a nice life other than the raging monsters some where. But this 
 is called pre seering, its the time before prophecies started, its where your character is created, 
 low level enemies, etc you do some, boring quests, go and get etc.
  Choose your secondary profession (after creating your character)
  
  Part 2 of game mechanics....
 
  after the weapons you will be wondering about the Professions and skills ?
  
  Here is the truth, without atleast 2 guild wars... you will be useless in pvp. No one will want 
 you.
  Because.
  You will be missing, almost all the good skills, skills which work together. On guild wars, you 
 can only have 8 skills at a time, they all must do a job. Guild wars is a team game, throughout 
 any of the series, never expect to solo, its impossible. You must get real life players, or brain 
 dead Heroes or Henchmen, who are hellbent on taking their share of the gold (egs...12g drops...1 
 player 3 henchmen 12 divided by 4... yeah... so how am i supposed to afford all this stuff that costs 
 20k ?) You farm, you grind.
  hence the name grind wars.
  The list goes on, really, there is so much to save about this game which you get sick of extremely 
 fast.
  
  After leaving pre seering, Ascalon is destroyed.. the town you were in, well it doesn't even resemble 
 what it used to be so i guess it got messed up, things called the charr are invading, like, half, 
 beast... basically yeah beauty and the beast.. they look like the best. and they are asses, they 
 hang around in groups of 4 or even more and unless your prepared and know what your doing you will 
 get your ass kicked open.
  
  You will have no money, or not enough.
  And everything seems to drag, I was extremely, lucky, I started because a good friend of mine played, 
 he was good at the game, and i mean beyond gvg good, but he hated organised Guild V Guilds, and 
 heroes ascent (High end pvp) because it sucked and was too serious.
  
  Characters dont stay the same, you will later learn your skills will no longer stick to one profession, 
 your secondary profession gives you allowance to skills and 3 out of the 4 abilities the secondary 
 uses.
  
  Armor is low at the beginning of the game, and buying a full set requires you to have atleast gotten 
 half way across the campaign (for armor is customised and cannot be pre bought) although a character 
 can wear max armor, regardless of its level, armor has no special properties.
  armor is limited per class
  egs warrior has a max of 80
  elementalist has a max of 60, no higher 
 or lower unless modified with insignias and the like, so. a 75k (thousand gold btw without materials 
 which add about half ontop .. and dye....) is no better (other than looks and bragging rights) than 
 a 5k (Without as mentioned) suit of armor.
  
  This game is not about skill it is about skill then time played
  it takes skill to get the hang 
 of what the hell is going on.
  then timed played to even be able to play it.
  about year and you can play this game well.
  
  PvP is regularly unfair.
  You will be put 
 against the opposite.
  Aka, something which will kill you and make you useless.
  Example if you are a Warrior, you must get up and close to your target, you have skills for blocking 
 melee attacks, and a healing skill, and skills for just out right sword attacks.
  Put against something which slows your movement speed, and nukes you to hell....
  
  that is 
 how guild wars works.
  
  You will be constantly underpowered.
  there will be some builds (set of skills)
  which are overpowered.
  
  My friend made a necromancer 
 build which was just so unstoppable..1.5 years later they nerf that skill (make it weaker and changing 
 its properties) At this point I was starting to quit guild wars, then they nerf his next build, 
 which was even better, those skills are now commonly used nooby skills.
  
  It cannot be explained the extent of it all.
  There is so much detail, and thus so many problems.
 
  If you spot a problem in the game, dont ignore it, because your really just grinding for nothing, 
 there are no rewards really.
  If you want you can buy this game but in the end you will be in the same state as me, knowing that 
 this sucks ass.
  
  I dont play wow, but i generally dislike wow, Gw Vs Wow is a major argument, but seriously, I vote 
 WoW.
  
  Gw PvP is awful, no matter what they say.
  There is always something that can kill you.
  
  There is health, which increases by level. 
 (higher levels get bonus damage against lower levels)
  Armor which increases the more you play, thus you must keep buying more and more, and gold until 
 later in your playing time will be extremely scarce. Especially if you do not own all of the guild 
 wars. (eye of the north is an expansion, you need atleast one of the 3 to play it)
  
  PvE is the worst in any game I know.
  Next to Perfect World. 
  I know a GvG player who is extremely 
 good... after 2 years.. she always quit and plays perfect world..
  any only plays guild wars because there is NOTHING BETTER TO DO.
  
  It can suck up your time, 
 with empty non entertaining gameplay.
  
  Energy is what controls spells, there are no potions to regenerate it.
  It regenerates slowly 
 of its own accord, also some skills can help you regenerate it, but these come at a cost to yourself.
 
  
  Most skills are half done, which is part of the game mechanics.
  Example skill which costs 5 energy, bow attack, half range, 10 second recharge time, does 30 damage 
 (at level 20.. which is the max level 12 marksmanship + 1 from armor +3 from rune)
  .. thats actually not a bad skill... best example is necromancer skills
  
  sacrifice 20% health 
 get 18 energy.
  Wow... isn't that awesome... now why doesn't it get improved ? 
  ... well... Anet is too busy nerfing your favorite skills !
  
  Theres too much to rage about.
 
  
  Check the
  PVX wiki. (load of guild wars builds)
  or 
  Guild was Wiki (the unofficial one IMO)
  
  Do yourself a favor and study this game to hell. 
 and make sure you wanna play it.
  because it really isn't worth it.
  Trials.
  friends account
  anything.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: therascricket
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 5:12 pm PT
Review:  I have to write a review after seeing someones post who is inexoerienced in gaming give Guild Wars 
 a 4.0
  
  GW is quite likely the best bang for your buck in PC gaming and has been for years. Its regularly 
 updated still and is a very fun and very deep game.
  
  The PVP is the best hands down and is 5 times as deep of a PVP experience than WoW. WoW PVP is 
 a tacked on addition made to please the fans of simplistic PVP. The sheer depth of GW PVP is something 
 WoW could never fathom of.
  
  The PVE is an excellent experience. WoW kiddies will complain that when you leave a town, its an 
 instanced zone. Its also the beauty of GW as it depends how you look at it, and heres why:
  
  The enemy AI in GW from creature to creature is incredibly more advanced than any mob in WoW. 
 The AI in GW is something you dont hear enough about. WoW Mobs have basically one main attack and 
 group mobs emply ZERO group tactics in WoW and just all attack at the same time.
  
  WoW mobs are pathetically stupid compared to GW mobs.
  
  So, you can walk around in WoW in 
 one persitstant world full of very stupid mobs if you want or play GW and enter instanced zones 
 that give a much more tactically in depth experience with not only better AI, but much better action. 
 
  
  In a group situation, WoW cant compare. You cant have two classes in WoW. The sheer fact that anyone 
 in your group could be a Elementalist/Necromancer, Assasin/Monk, or Monk/Mesmer ......... yes, grasp 
 that - a group can be extremely diverse. This produces a higher level of individual responsibility 
 to the player for the group since youll have very specific spells from your classes that have to 
 be maintained in a faster, smarter, and more 'twitch action' style of gameplay when in a group 
 in GW.
  
  There is simply NOTHING in GW that compares to the incredibly easy Warrior class in WoW, for instance. 
 Meaning, even the GW Warrior is incredibly more in depth with much better skills that require more 
 timing and thought and overall skill.
  
  You simply have WAY more options in GW with the powers and skills of your characters. 
  
  Its 
 easily a 9.0 
  
  Other than intelligent, 'twitch' gameplay things that make GW a 9.0 are:
  Graphics are still 
 great
  Enemy design is VERY cool and not as repititous as many games
  Enemy AI blows every other game thats even similar away
  Highly awesome single-player PC experience
 
  Best PVP of any PC game - easily the most in depth
  Solid interface and chat functions
  Excellent PC optimization - it runs great on many systems
  Very reliable PC software and support
 
  
  Now, Id say THOSE are the things that matter and make for a good game. 
  
  Just realize one thing: ALL games are different. You play WoW.... so you can play "WoW". Its a totally 
 different thing from a different company with far different gameplay. 
  
  GW is its own game. Its more comparable to Diablo 2 than WoW, IMO, since towns are basically like 
 chat rooms with avatars in the sense where youre finding a group to enter the instance with. You 
 can walk around and gear up as well and it binds the whole experience together. Youre just missing 
 out if you dont have GW - bottom line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nature-elf
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 13, 2009 5:38 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is an MMORPG that is only suitable for gamers who have other gamer friends who plays 
 Guild Wars as well.
  
  
  Without having any monthly subscription fees, Guild Wars is one game that will probably have many 
 other players in it, but that doesn't really make a difference in the game because in Guild Wars, 
 you get your own personal map when you enter a hostile environment.
  
  That actually sounds good as first, it means that there isn't a need to compete with other players 
 for a kill, or getting your loot stolen by other players, but after a while it takes it's toll 
 because it will only be you in the game map and maybe 3 other NPC henchman if you don't have any 
 friends playing with you, which is the scenario that I am in.
  
  Sure, you may be able to look for a party to help you and put up a party search, but seriously, 
 the chances of people actually joining you is really slim.
  
  So in the end the game feels like a single player game rather than an MMORPG.
  
  There is the 
 PvP portion of the game as well that can actually be fun if you know how to play the game, and 
 to do that, you will need to play the Campaign which is seriously really boring if you have no 
 Guild Wars friends playing with you.
  
  And the PvP focused character that you can create will be at a huge disadvantage because of your 
 gears and lack of skills.
  
  
  The graphics may be gorgeous and the story might be good, but what's the use of all of that when 
 this so called MMORPG cannot be enjoyed as an MMORPG for players like myself who lack gaming friends.
 
  
  
  Other online games that I have played like Warhammer have other players in hostile environment 
 and that's good because usually parties are form in the midst of battle, quick help can be obtained 
 if it's required when you are getting whacked by a monster and some players are around, this way 
 online friends are made.
  
  Guild Wars makes all of that almost impossible. Trying to evade from a monster is impossible because 
 monsters can spot you from quite a distance and they attack in groups of possibly up to 10. 10 
 against 4, what are the odds of surviving... especially when 3 other players are NPC Henchmen.
 
  
  Also Guild Wars has a map that's covered in fog like maps in Warcraft 3, unexplored area's will 
 have a fog over it. And with all the terrains in Guild Wars, it's like walking in a corn maze, 
 to make things worse... the game only moves in a 2 dimensional place, so you can't jump, you can't 
 swim heck ,if you get stuck on the edge of a cliff and the goal is to get down the cliff, you have 
 to find another way down which may take a very very long time... it's like a game of trial and 
 error, the error will cause to to respawn back to the point you started forcing you to walk all 
 the way back which really takes up a lot of time.
  
  It's really terrible in my opinion. and I would really prefer going back to Warhammer even though 
 I am a sucker for games with good graphics and Guild Wars wins hands down in that aspect, but PvP 
 and MMOPRG gameplay wise Warhammer takes the trophy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rs_pcg_1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 7:26 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed the game from the start, but after I got to level 4 in 2 hours, I was bored. Then I realized 
 there are only 20 levels. The spells can be fun, but to me they are bland. Nothing like the details 
 of spells in Diablo II or the Final Fantasy series, but I guess it would lag the servers. 
  
  When I had a friend to play with, or someone else to join my party, it would be more fun. The 
 NPC's can be dumb, especially the Fire Imp that is given to people with the GOTY edition. The imp 
 stays an fights any enemy in site, and does not leave the enemy until they're dead. There is no 
 voice chat, bummer. Xfire helps with that.
  
  The game does have great system requirements so that even computers 4 years old can play. The expansions 
 make the game more fun, especially when rangers can charm only certain animals in each.
  
  There are a LOT of quests, but if your sticking to the main story line, starting players will have 
 a hard time finding where to go, after the beginning. I personally had to ask someone playing.
 
  
  All in all the game is fun if you like RPG's, the large selection of different classes keeps you 
 going, along with morphing 2 classes together.
  
  So slay away, make new friends, join a guild (cause it helps) , and all in all have FUN!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mike12348
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 6:51 am PT
Review:  with guild wars being a good game and it being free i giv it about an 8.6
  grapics were nothing like ive ever seen befor much better than wow fighting was fun but only have 
 8 skills on at one time it got alittle boaring of doing the same thing in Missions. the adition 
 of heros were cool and some of the new places were intresting and fun. pvp left lots to be disierd 
 even with pvp charicters. and you could farm gold eaysy and get people to run you places in order 
 to skip missions. the new classes were very diffent like nothing i may have thought of except the 
 assasin i might of thought of that. but the othere were very cool to find out wat they were good 
 at . henchmen were cool to play with and heros were like advanced versions of that. like the last 
 place in night fall that no one could beat was anoying and agrivateing.
  at the end i just got board of the same thing just in difernt places.
  
  your fellow gamer 
 Mike1238 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NardBasket
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 10:57 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is everything it's cracked, hyped, and talked up to be. And I say this having started 
 playing it five years after it came out! 
  What separated Guild Wars from a certain other online RPG for me was the fact that its fun right 
 off the bat. No "Don't worry, the fun picks up with you reach so-and-so level." One of the things 
 that makes it fun right away is the combat system, which also definitely makes the game an action-rpg. 
 Combat is fast and frequent, and always engaging. Auto-targeting and engaging enemies is a breeze, 
 with hotkeys ranging from simple "attack" to specific skills and spells. 
  Guild Wars has a huge main story, and manages to keep you following it through its multi-faceted 
 delivery system. Meaning, almost every NPC in the game is important in some way, and they all tie 
 into the bigger picture of things.
  The game's lands, even pre-expansion, are huge! Mountain ranges are as big as mountain ranges, 
 and expansive wastelands, forests, and beaches really present their scope in the epic fashion you'd 
 hope for. 
  One really cool thing about this game is that you don't necessarily need to play with other living 
 people in your party- you can use the game's 'henchmen' to fill out your adventuring party, and 
 they're actually very competent, which is rare for NPC ally artificial intelligence. 
  Bottom line here, get this game. No monthly fees, fun combat, epic scale and story, and depth of 
 gameplay make this a truly great game thats fun to play, even to this day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bogartcool
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 9:41 am PT
Review:  Guild wars has got to be one of the best games I've ever played, definitely the best MMORPG ever. 
 The ONLY thing that isn't perfect about this game is that it does lack a little cohesion, but I 
 think that's why I like it, because there are so many different settings around the whole world 
 it makes you feel like your in it! It looks very realistic for being able to play on a mid-range 
 PC. There are a whole range of different unique monsters, and even each campaign has a different 
 "feel" to it. For example the "prophecies" campaign makes you feel like your in the middle ages, 
 while the "factions" campaign gives you the feel like your in ancient china. I love the character 
 classes, and how you can also pick a second profession. They also seem to be very balanced out 
 so there is no one "perfect" profession. I would recommend this game for anyone who likes MMORPG's 
 and really anyone who likes games in general, your sure to like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: igg72
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2009 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is one of the first MMO games I have personally picked up, and at first I was a bit 
 uneasy. But when you progress in the game, it becomes very interesting and extremely entertaining.
 
  
  In the beginning, it is easy to find people who help you. The game may be a bit confusing at first 
 and sort of hard to get used to, but once you start to figure things out it becomes a bit easier.
 
  
  The gameplay in this game is very unique, and requires a lot of thought to become skilled. You 
 are allowed 8 skills in your skill bar, which makes being good very challenging. The skill selection 
 in this game is VERY vast, and there is near endless combinations to what you can do.
  
  The campaign and PvE modes in this game are very well put together. There are missions with cut-scenes, 
 quests that make sense, and challenging things to do. The missions are very fun, with certain objectives 
 to fulfill, you are usually rewarded with a decent cut-scene at the end. The quests are extravagant. 
 The dialogue is well put together, and the quest objectives actually make sense unlike other MMO 
 games.
  
  The PvP in this game, is one thing that many people play it for. You can have massive wars between 
 guilds, have 16v.16 wars in the Factions addition, or just do some 1 on 1. The PvP is very well 
 put together.
  
  One thing I noticed about this game that made me enjoy it even more, is that it really feels like 
 an actual video game. The interface is very easy to use, the graphics are decent, and, unlike other 
 MMOs, it has a unique design. Many people may thing this does not matter, but I am frankly sick 
 of the awful looking interfaces in many games.
  
  All in all, this game is great, and if you are into fantasy MMO games, you should definitely pick 
 this one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dean_Harper
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  I started playing GW way back in Dec. 2005. I was surprised to find that I haven't given it a review 
 yet. GW is a great MMO. It combines no monthly subscription, a beautiful game world, a very nice 
 skill system, and great Player vs. Player action to synthesize an amazing experience. The classes 
 (professions for GW) are balanced enough that they can be formatted to anyone's style of play, 
 due to the complicated and simple skill system. Each profession has 4-5 different attribute lines 
 that can be specced into with Attribute Points as you progress your character through the 20 skill 
 levels available. Each attribute line strengthens and increases the duration of skills that you 
 acquire during your journey. For example:
  
  Mesmers (masters of Illusion, control, and the mind and my personal favorite profession) have four 
 different attribute lines: Illusion, Domination, Inspiration, and a primary attribute (an attribute 
 only available to primary mesmers, but more on that later) Fast Casting. Each of these attributes 
 have skills connected to them that increase in power, or scale, with the more attribute points 
 in the line. Now, each primary profession (the prof you choose at character creation) is allowed 
 to choose one secondary profession later in their career. You may choose from any of the other 
 professions, but you will not have access to the primary attribute of that profession (an example 
 being the Fast Casting of Mesmers) . Each primary attribute usually has an inherent effect that 
 boosts the abilities of your character. Mesmer's Fast Casting allows them to do just that - cast 
 spells much faster. 
  
  The catch with the multi - profession system is that you can only have a total of 8 skills on your 
 skill bar. That is where strategy comes in. You have to plan ahead and adapt your skill bar as 
 the game progresses, because some monsters aren't affected as strongly with some skills as others. 
 
  
  The Player vs. Player portion of the game is much more strategic than that, even, requiring you 
 to balance your build (your attributes, skills, and equipment) to the rest of your team in order 
 to achieve the best results.
  
  The 6 core professions of GW are:
  
  Elementalist (general caster/ranged spell slinger)
  Monk (your generic healer/protector)
  Ranger 
 (your generic hunter w/ optional pet)
  Warrior (your generic tank/frontliner)
  Necromancer (minion summoner/support/damage dealer using dark magic)
  Mesmer (disabler and master 
 of the opponent)
  
  
  There are also four professions from the two other campaigns, Assassin, Ritualist, Dervish, and 
 Paragon, but I won't get into them at this point. If GW sounds like your kind of MMO, then I highly 
 recommend getting it.
  
  -Dean 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itachi100
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 12, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  this game really doesnt focus on the RPG elements of the game, not any skill leveling system to 
 make the game worth playing, and really basic classes. this doesnt belong in your collection. worst 
 of all, if you like RPGs for the RPG elements of the games, you will hate this because its all 
 about PVP, PVP, PVP!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! the only way to make money, is quest or kill random roaming 
 things, forturnately, you get your own copy of the world. so no one goes with you unless you invite 
 them into your party.
  
  it has a LONG story and its a little bit too long. and after you play for a while, the environment 
 becomes very dull and unexciting. an apocalyptic wasteland.
  
  not fallout apocalyptic. Devil may cry apocalyptic!!!
  the skies are red and depressing.. the 
 ground and environment is destroyed, and deserted.
  
  the game's surroundings are too dull
  
  and like any other MMORPG, its based in the medieval 
 era in a very retarded fantasy. very few games manage to pull it off to do that and make the game 
 good, and this isnt one of those. MMOs are a waste of your money, but this one has no monthly fees. 
 only advantage... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godshalomaster
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars brings some PVP oriented play to the world of MMO's. There are no monthly subscriptions 
 fees to play GW. The game breaks up the usually crowded world into a general town and then instances 
 between them cuts back on load times. This is a fantastic feature of the game don't get me wrong, 
 but it also makes it feel a lot more like a single player game then an MMO with thousands of people 
 playing with you. Then again if you have no friends at all you can always use the hence men the 
 game provides. The real meat of the game comes from the arenas where you can battle other players. 
 GW features lots of different modes of play, such as capture the flag and death match. However, 
 unlike other major MMO's the gear you have on your character really doesn't affect your characters 
 skill, this falls to your skill set. You're able to set seven different skills you can use in combat 
 and one of those seven can be an elite skill that does something that is a little bit stronger 
 than other skills. Besides bringing some different styles to MMO's GW really fails to capture people 
 from other MMO's out there.
  
  Pros
   No subscription fees
   Fast load times
   Unique skill system
  Cons
   Very linear
   Lack of multiplayer experience
  
  
  Reviewed 
 by GodsHaloMaster aka SSMaverick
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doubledime
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  What can I say, Honestly, the best game Ive played to date. sure Ive tried WoW, WAR, EQ and D&D, 
 But i quit them all and still play GW's to this date
  
  
  The Good:
  
  -Immersive amazing class system, VERY customizable
  -Actual SKILL Involved, With only 8 skills 
 aloud in the bar at a time, you really gotta take time to Think it over before leaving an outpost
 
  -Great Community, millions of players, Never a Dull moment.
  -PvP is absolutely Brilliant, Of course it has to be, Never have I played better PvP
  -PvE is 
 Deep, Great Stories, Amazing End game Dungeons, plenty of Items to keep you Busy
  -LOTS and LOTS of Events, Every weekend theres a mini Event, While during holiday seasons, Plenty 
 of Changes go on.
  -Guild System is well made, With Guild halls, Individual capes, and Massive guilds, its fun to 
 have one (or lead one in my case)
  -STUNNING visuals, Though Older now, they still hold up against some of the newest games, Not hard 
 on the come either!
  -Great Sound Track, it makes the game have a Feel to it
  -The Game is Very Comical, so if you need a laugh, just watch for some of the small things :P
 
  -title System makes it easy to play for a goal
  
  The Bad:
  -no game is without flaws, and its no exception
  -The instance System makes it feel.. detached 
 almost.
  -No Jumping, Its just a drag, sometimes i just want to jump off a cliff to see what happens, but 
 i cant
  -Can Be Linear at times, which makes it not as good on the exploring part
  
  
  
  The good HEAVILY out weighs the bad though, and I recommend you go out and pick up all the 
 games today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mihipihi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is one of the games that has a special place in my game-list, as its the one and only 
 mmorpg that I played more than 6 minutes. It's also the game I played the most, I think I played 
 it for app. 400-500 hours.
  The graphics are great. It had the most realistic graphics I saw at the time I buyed it (I didn't 
 have a high-end computer) . The flashes work great, various explosions of different colours look 
 real, and the magic that's implemented into it is perfect. The environment is absolutely beautiful 
 and a real joy to play in, so are the creatures and people walking around in it.
  Now the gameplay. This is my first rpg review, so i dont know well how to start...
  
  The gameplay 
 is divided into two parts. The city/town part (where the players gather together) , and the fighting 
 exploring part (all the landscapes and fighting arenas.
  The city part is where you find your primary objectives, get to knowing players, upgrade your eqipment 
 etc., but you can't fight. And nothing can attack you there.
  In the arena/landscape part you can do all of the city part, but you can also fight. The only thing 
 you can't do is changing skills, which is allowed only in the cities.
  Skills are various magic enchantments, shouts, or just sword/hammer attacks. You have 8 skills 
 available. You can attack/defend without skills. When you get better, your skills improve.
  
  Overall, a great game which I recommend to everyone who likes either magic or rpg games. I 
 dont play rpg's usually, but with this game, I was pleasantly surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neon7771
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  If I had to choose between Guild Wars and World of Warcraft, I'd pick Guild Wars every time. Guild 
 Wars utilizes gaming setup and gameplay unlike World of Warcraft.
  Most people who play World of Warcraft complain that Guild Wars has a low level cap at 20. This 
 is one of the reasons that make is such an amazing game. World of Warcraft focuses its gameplay 
 entirely on constant grinding and leveling. Playing a game like that gets boring extremely fast. 
 Guild Wars focuses its gameplay on completing quests, finding items, armor, and other materials. 
 Most people who want to play a quality MMORPG don't play for grinding, they play for the quests, 
 which is what Guild Wars offers. 
  The most important factor that makes Guild Wars a much better game than World of Warcraft is its 
 administration. Arena-Net provides a well-rounded environment for its players, prohibiting practices 
 such as bot-farming and the purchasing of in-game gold. Blizzard, however, supports these acts 
 and takes no action to regulate them. Arena-Net is more devoted to providing a proper gaming environment 
 than Blizzard can ever hope to be. With the administration comes in-game admins. In this respect, 
 Arena-Net admins take care to read any report sent and take the proper action required to rectify 
 the situation. Blizzard admins, sadly, abuse their power however they see fit. Weather it be by 
 randomly killing a player for speaking out, or by permitting bots to run rampant, Blizzard is corrupt.
 
  The bottom line: Guild Wars is the better game with the devoted administration behind it, and 
 no other MMORPG can come close to matching its standards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travisstaggs
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  So I've been playing Guild Wars on and off for about a good 3 or 4 years now and no matter how 
 many times I stop playing it or stop playing it because I'm stuck in the main storyline yes I said 
 it a mmorpg with an actual good story worth completing, anyways I always come back to play this 
 game, alright on with the review.
  
  Graphics 10/10: Amazing graphics state of the art well for its time which was only like 3 almost 
 4 years ago environments looks amazing and very well detailed and all the monsters and classes 
 look amazing.
  
  Gameplay 10/10: Very fun and addictive gameplay you can only go to level 20 but theres still plenty 
 of stuff to do after level 20 mix and match skills try out new combos .
  
  Sound 9.5/10: I simply love the music in this game very very well done and amazing, and when there 
 is voice acting its very well done also.
  
  Replay Value 10/10: Very addictive so many classes to try and so many skills to mess with.
  
 
  Overall 10/10: Simply amazing if you like mmorpg this is a definite must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyseven
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  The addition of the heroes system with the Nightfall expansion made me a Guild Wars believer. Being 
 able to play any of the games with your heroes leveling right aling side the main character really 
 hits the bulls-eye. Being one who does not like having to pull a large group together in order 
 to complete a quest, I have to say that I was incredibly excited to re-open the Guild Wars cd case 
 that I had purchased at it's initial release. Great job, NCSoft! You have now created countless 
 hours of play, as well as re-play of the previous games, Prophecies and Factions. With new-found 
 hero pals at our disposal, adventuring throughout the isles reveals suprisingly stunning visuals 
 and storylines at every turn. Amazing graphics that will certainly wow the most experienced, and 
 without bringing the computer to it's knees. As of the end of 2008, the Guild Wars games, remarkably, 
 still stand tall next to others in the MMORPG class. Guild Wars still out-performs it's rivals 
 on many levels, providing rock-solid and stunning visual effects, as well as a seamless and vast 
 storyline. It may have taken until the release of Nightfall before I stepped up onto the Guild 
 Wars soap box, but here I am, and I have to tell you, "Play Guild Wars, it's amazing." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joknerd12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  The first time I ever played Guild Wars I wasnt that intrested, but I have come a long way now 
 and relized that the game is awesome. I used to play World Of Warcraft, I hated the monthly fees 
 so I left and i was sad I really wanted to find a game thats just as good so i got looking and 
 i found guild wars i started off i thought the graphics were ok but then i got hooked within a 
 week and havnt stopped playing since! I would recomend this to those who have never played an MMORPG 
 before its a great game to start off on, the hint is too just keep playing dont stop just because 
 theres one boring or to hard part that you cant pass the game gets addictive fast once you hit 
 a certain level things get really fun and you wont be able to  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shalafein
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a game were you need not pay to play. Which is great for me cause i am cheap would 
 do not like paying to playing.
  With most online games there is the armor some are cooler then others. To get this armor you need 
 to collect stuff to craft it with which can be a pain at times! 
  Money is hard to get but not that hard you can kill monsters to get it or you can do quests that 
 offer money. Or just sell stuff!
  You can have guilds of course which are really good if you like PVP (player Vs Player) . OR you could 
 just create a PVP person right off. If you do not like that stick with the PVE (player Vs Environment) . 
 
  There are plenty of quests which can keep you busy for awhile. And they best part you can do with 
 other players or henchmen or just go out by yourself. 
  Creating your person isnt as great you have a limited options when creating them. But you can change 
 to be rangers, warriors, monks, and so on.
  The story is ok its not outstanding or anything but its ok.
  The music was great in my opinion. 
 
  There are plenty of places for you to explore so you wont get bored. 
  What i like about this is that when you die you wont lose your stuff. But you get a death penalty 
 which lowers your health for awhile.
  And if your worried that some people your group you went on a quest with, No worries they will 
 assign thing to other players and the gold that is dropped will be split with the whole group.
 
  All in All its a great game and if you do not like paying to play you might enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cvskater321
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  This game is a massive on-line game. (First im going to tell you what i hate about the game) This 
 game has u make the armor you cant kill bests for it and you have to use meterails to make it, 
 some of these metrails are rare and its rilly hard to get especially if your a low levl. When your 
 are out fighting I hate the land and i hate the fighting style, when your on land you cant go down 
 a simple hill you cant rilly go were you wont. (The goods) THis is a pritty good game on-line game 
 for without having to pay, but I do recomend WORLD OF WARCRAFT it does have pay but every pennie 
 is worth it. But thats just me. In World Of Warcraft is such a good game cause you can go were 
 you wont when you wont you get a mount and a flying one also, its just the right game. Ive ben 
 playing World Of Wracraft for three to four years and its rilly addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aura_enchanted
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  guildwars is a breathtaking game that is hotely contested over the beater of WoW. It has no omnthyl 
 fees, characters are beautiful, the skill librarys is immense and the storyline can very well compare 
 itself to Homers, "the Illiad and the Odyssey". Character creating is vast yet simple. you select 
 gender, PvE or PvP based character, u slect height, hair style, hair color, name, profession, and 
 starting armor color. It starts you off slow and gradually increases the difficulty level. experience 
 is mainly awarded by preforming quests and doing storyline instances called missions.
  PvP has many varied styles and constantly is forcing players to adapt and make the best use of 
 the 8 skills you are allowed to use in the field at 1 time.
  after your character is made however customization DOESNT END. you then get to choose what armor 
 style u wear, what color u want it to be (you can mix colors to get various shades and more complex 
 colors) what stats it has, and the likewise can be said about the weapons you wield. your character 
 selects from 2 professions a primary (dictating their appearance and primary attribute, and there 
 secondary dictating their skill combinations) .
  i refuse to let out of the bag the story of guildwars as every camapign is different and im not 
 one for spoliers but it is not something noone should miss. here are my cons to the game but they 
 are mainly case specific problems: the level cap is only 20 so grind lovers beware!, all characters 
 look like generic supermodels (providing u can run on high resolution) , and finally those with 
 super powerful PC's will notice there hardware wont be tested much to render a superb game quality. 
 for those diehard MMO players there are no rideable creatures.
  
  all in all this game is a great title for anyone shelf and NOT picking it up would probably be 
 the biggest mistake people have made since, the poor fools who bought big rig racing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabre772
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is without a doubt one of the greatest massive multiplayers you will play during your 
 lifetime. From visual effects to story mode Guild Wars has it all. The story is both engaging and 
 long, some may consider it to long as it requires a great deal of time to finish the game. The 
 game has so many activities that it will blow your mind with the choice to either do player vs 
 player or player vs environment, customize your armour with several different dyes, character customisation 
 and so to name but a few of the thousands. Even after you finish the story you can explore the 
 many other aspects of the game which are many including pursuing titles, becoming guild leader, 
 entering the Hall of Heroes, getting epic armour, exploring the vast landscape or just becoming 
 rich. Guild Wars is a magnificent game, a must buy for all especially multiplayer fans.
  Advantages
  Great multiplayer
  Extremely long story
  Graphics are good for a game of this 
 scale
  Great story
  Diverse Disadvantages
  Extremely long story
  Graphics
  Will miss out on a lot if you dont own all games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sithisil
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  I got Guild Wars about three years ago. It's not until now that I'm actually writing a review for 
 it. I will also be writing reviews for Factions and Eye of the North, two additional campaigns, 
 separately. Anyways, that aside, I'm going to shut up and get to the point that you guys are interested 
 in.
  
  The Good:
  Guild Wars is a very fun MMO RPG. The graphics, which are very good for the time, as well as the 
 immense landscapes really give you a sense of immersion. The combat system is simple yet difficult 
 to master, containing many intricacies and a huge number of skill selections for each of the six 
 separate classes (Warrior, Monk, Elementalist, Ranger, Necromancer, Mesmer) . You are allowed 4 
 characters to start (you may purchase more character slots through the in-game store) , each capable 
 of using two classes at once, which adds strategy to your selection. Perhaps the greatest thing 
 about Guild Wars, however, is that there is no monthly fee to play - that's right, no 15 bucks 
 a month just to play a game you've already paid for! Playing with a friend, or your guild, is also 
 immensely entertaining. There are two modes of play; Player vs. Environment (PvE) and Player vs. 
 Player (PvP) . The single player mode is lengthy enough and with enough achievements that you can 
 spend hours upon hours entertaining yourself. PvP combat is also very competitive, and caters to 
 a large variety of skill levels. Also, around the holidays, special activities are available for 
 fun. Such activities include snowball fights, Guild Wars style, Roller Beetle Racing, Rock Paper 
 Scissors Matches, and lots more. They also redecorate major towns for the events, adding a very 
 festive and enjoyable atmosphere.
  
  The Mediocre:
  There are some things that Guild Wars does in a somewhat lackluster fashion. The biggest one, in 
 my opinion, is that the single player mode becomes boring if you try to conquer it alone with computer-controlled 
 henchmen. The henchmen also are known to be less than intelligent, and in the later missions of 
 the game, just don't prove to have enough firepower to get you through. The storyline also fits 
 into this category. It starts off lame, gets a little better as you continue, but it's still not 
 great.
  
  The bad:
  Some areas and quests can simply be frustrating. With the death penalty system (-15% of your maximum 
 life and energy are taken away upon death. You may only remove this through special items and returning 
 to town) , many times it can be frustrating to complete a quest when you're handicapped. The said 
 areas are much more frustrating than the penalties, however; in some areas, you can't walk as far 
 as three steps without being ambushed by yet another set of annoying enemies.
  
  Well, that's about all for Guild Wars: Prophesies. If you want to know what the expansions (Which 
 can also be stand-alone games) have to offer, please read the other reviews! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CJ47
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  First of all, forget everything you thought you knew about Guild Wars. This game is not like World 
 of Warcraft except the fact that they are both played online with other people. This game is more 
 MMO then role-playing. This game is different from WoW in many aspects. Such as the PvP system, 
 the party system, and character creations.
  First things first, you are wondering cost. This game does not come with a monthly playing fee. 
 You only have to buy the game in order to play it. No hidden fees, just the game and you. So for 
 those with tight budgets or low income, this game is one for you to look for.
  The character creation system is different from that of World of Warcraft. You can't choose race 
 in this game, but you can choose class and gender. You can then customize the way your character 
 looks and the color of their armor and markings and such. Overall, in the first Guild Wars, there 
 are six classes in all; Warrior, Ranger, Monk, Elementalist, Mesmer, & Necromancer. All these classes 
 with their own spells and abilities. Such as what weapon and armor they use. Another neat thing 
 in Guild Wars is that you can combine classes such as Warrior and a Monk to be able to use both 
 classes unique abilities.
  The way the game is played is to let players choose how they want to adventure. You have different 
 areas to access. The towns and outposts are the only places you can meet another human player unless 
 you party up. This is for people that want to adventure by themselves. The party system in the 
 game works for both of them. For the lonely players, they can let computer henchmen join their 
 party, up to 4 people in a party, and explore at their leisure. The ones that like company of other 
 humans, can form a party with other people at the towns and outposts they enter. You can also form 
 guilds with other players and go to a guild hall, so you are never really alone in the game.
  The PvP system is another unique thing to the world of MMOs. In Guild Wars, your PvP character 
 starts out at the max level (20) , and you can fight other players in arenas and earn 'faction'. 
 You can then use the 'faction' to purchase more items or Heroes, which are henchmen that you can 
 customize. Also, any spell or ability you gained in the Role-playing world can be used in the PvP 
 world.
  For great gaming design and a unique new way at playing MMOs and even a one time fee for the game, 
 this game is awarded 10/10. Like I said before, this is not World of Warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bildevo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  Guild wars is seriously addicting. You can really go out and play for hours and hours, receiving 
 a message in game "You've been playing for _ hours, take a break." I don't know if their joking 
 or if they are really concerned for you eyesight, but I have seen this more than enough times. 
 
  Anyway, GW is an MMORPG (incase you haven't heard this term enough, it means Mass Multiplayer Online 
 Role Playing Game) . If you've played RPGs before and don't like the slow combat, you should really 
 reconsider playing them. GW has thrown in an action game mechanic, where you click and attack, 
 like Diablo. So the enemies run at you, and you fire arrows at them in real time. No boring "it's 
 my turn, it's your turn" crap. It's actually fun going into fights and you won't really find yourself 
 avoiding them.
  The Map consists of towns/outposts, and explorable areas. In towns/outposts you party up and get 
 ready to go out and fight. Where as when you load an area with enemies, you get you own specific 
 copy of the area, with whomever else you may have invited. This is a great way to deal with lag 
 issues that are commonground in alot of online games. 
  There are alot of items here, and they are spread along quite equally amoung the diffrent classes 
 that you can choose from. It's especially entertaining to seek out the rare treasures in tyria, 
 and the farther you get into the game, the more you figure out. 
  The map in the game is simply huge... massive. If youve traversed and Elder Scrolls lands, then 
 you might find something familiar amoung this world. 
  The missions are alright... Mostly killing a certain for or fetching something for an NPC. And 
 theres always plenty of walking...
  The PvP is done with great passibility and keeps the game fun if you tire of missions for a few 
 hours. The level cap is 20, so you see alot of these lvl 20 characters wandering about, obtaining 
 more skills and better armor, spells, weapons, ect.
  So even if you have yet to try a RPG, Guild Wars would make a great start into a new genre. And 
 it may even hook you like it has millions of players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: feliscele
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a little different, MMO wise. Most MMOs require a subscription fee of $15+ a month. 
 Not so with Guild Wars: you pay once. Another aspect that sets it apart is that outside of towns, 
 you are alone in the world, unless you invited a few people to adventure with you. In other words, 
 you can complete quests and missions without addicted, high level idiots coming up and killing 
 you for your stuff, or newbs following you around and being incessantly annoying ("U wanna join 
 my guild? U wanna join my guild? U wanna") . Also, the level cap is at 20, making sure no one is 
 practically invincible. Very, very good ideas.
  
  Plot:
  WARNING: HERE BE SPOILERS! The game starts, as the narrator will tell you, on the morning of the 
 last day of the city of Ascalon's existence. After you have completed the tutorial, you are sent 
 to eradicate a host of Charr (giant, troll like, hairy Minotaur creature thingies which are battling 
 Ascalon) from inside a bunker. After you complete that little feat, a bunch of Charr shamans will 
 cast this spell that makes the sky rain fire, effectively destroying Ascalon. The story then picks 
 up two years later in the ruins of the city as Men prepare to make another stand against the Charr. 
 After the last stand, the survivors migrate over the Shiverpeak Mountains to the country of Kryta, 
 only to discover that, oh joy, an army of undead has moved into the neighborhood and has decided 
 to try and kill everybody. Standard fantasy stuff, but pretty good for an MMO. 
  Plot Score: 4/5
  
  Gameplay:
  You control the game by pointing and clicking, or using the 
 arrow keys, to go places. At the beginning of each mission, you may choose a new set of skills 
 that you have learned, which boost your attack and other skills, to use during said mission. The 
 skill usage and the ability to micromanage your henchmen (AI controlled teammates that you use 
 if there is a shortage of players willing to join your adventure party) make the game have a Real 
 Time Strategy (which is good for me, because I LOVE RTS) feel more than an MMO feel. A good and 
 solid interface.
  Gameplay Score: 4/5
  
  
  Music:
  Unlike in some games, the music is played by an actual orchestra, is very well composed and emotion 
 inducing (it was written by Jeremy Soule, a John Williams among game music composers) . Stirring. 
 It will, however, get a little repetitive, since each biome has a different score, but you spend 
 hours at a time in the same biome. Ah well.
  Music Score: 4/5
  
  Graphics and Sound:
  Great graphics, especially for the low hardware requirements. I can run it on highest quality without 
 lag, and I have an awful graphics card to boot. The sounds are quite good and the voice acting 
 is above average and synced correctly, unlike some games I could mention. Very, very good.
  Graphics and Sound Score: 5/5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PolskaKing
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is indeed the greatest game and MMO I have very played. As soon has I started playing 
 the game I found it easy to play. You learn everything right from the start. The great thing is 
 you dont have to pay every month like other MMO's like WOW and Diablo and other ones. Arenanet/NCsoft 
 have totally made this game one of the best in the entire world. I recommend this game to every 
 one that you should get it and the other games in the series. I have some what racked up over 200 
 hours of gameplay. Its really easy to level up and do stuff in this game. I like video games they 
 are amazing. I play on the PS2, PC, Game boy SP, Sega Dreamcast, and Wii. Im just saying this to add 
 more stuff.
  
  My one of my mains name is Polish King. And on my other account the main is Poilish Ritualist. (yes 
 i know i spelled Polish wrong but i typed it in to fast while making him) And now some random stuff. hhysduhf 
 sdhfisd hfuhsdfihs dufhaifhau sifhahfusah fuhdfushdgfu hsdgu hgusdhg usdghus dghusdghdus ghgsdug 
 hsdguhs guhgusdgh usdghus dhgusd hgushd ughsdug husdghus dhgushgus dghusdgh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CommandZer01
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Ok I am going to say it, NCsoft and ArenaNet are very nutty, throwing out a FREE TO PLAY MMO.... in 
 a very unique sense. Yes this is indeed a massive multiplayer game but NO it is not one to the 
 very extent of the word say like the Nazis regime that world of warcraft created, instead guild 
 wars focues on party making and instant quests, as well as great PVP action. Ok so you login you 
 make your character you go into a safe area or "zones" find a party or get a NPC character on your 
 side and than go out and do a quest simple? yes? can you take a week off and come back later without 
 having to pay a fee? yes? money well spent yes? but is there more to it than that? lets decompose 
 and find out!
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Ok all I am going to say is beautiful and amazing, each of the characters have a unique look to 
 them and creating your persona is very easy and unique especially when you get your own badass 
 character into the field, than creating YOUR GUILD is a whole other story. But the landscapes and 
 areas are very unique from the rocky hills to the really really cold areas, and who wears a skirt 
 in those AREAS! The great thing is that the interface is simple and unique and truth be told you 
 don't need a powerhouse PC to make this game look nice and run smooth, I mean I have run this game 
 on a whistle and a stick! ok bad example, anyway more onto the point, great graphics with diverse 
 looking areas, interesting enemies and most of all, BIG FIREBALLS OF DOOM!
  
  SOUND:
  
  KA PLA! SLASH! ZOOM! ok the basic sounds you expect, but I think the musical score outdoes the 
 sound effects, it is vast and diverse depending on the area you are in and if you are under attack 
 or if you are just really wearing your butt as a hat. Anyway sound is what you expect from a MMO, 
 not really any voices aside from the few sharp pain sounds that come from your typical fair of 
 MMO's
  
  CONTROL:
  
  the basic keyboard layout for me has a few awkward keys and also why is the options menu like F10 
 and not escape? who does that? but you may want to misplace a few hot keys and commands on the 
 keyboard to a more desirable key. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: 
  
  I touched a bit of this on the summery, but my thing about guild wars that really works, is that 
 you don't really have to worry about playign because the game works for you and not against you, 
 you can play 1 hour or 50 and that works fine, I found it very interesting when you go out and 
 explore the rest of the world with bigger parties and gather more and more friends, this is a great 
 community that works for itself. The only really thing that works against guild wars, is lets say 
 you are not in a zone and out on a quest and getting whooped than someone can't come and save you 
 but don't worry you quickly start back at a spawn point fresh and ready to go again..... ok another 
 quick thing that works against guild wars is not the classes, each class is great and unique its 
 more of the races.... there is only ONE! UNO! 1!!!! which is human! why not throw in a.... I don't 
 know ANOTHER RACE! DIVERSIFY! 
  
  
  MY TWO PESOS:
  
  probably the best reason why I got this game is 1. because its free, 2. I ain't got the money to 
 pay 15 smacks a month for a game, 3. I don't have the time to CONSTANTLY PLAY THE SAME game because 
 if paying for a game is really that important, it becomes more of a job than fun! Anyway great 
 game, got it for 30 dollars! and you should to!
  
  Also guys heres a tip, this actually could be a winner for getting your girlfriend to play, because 
 if you just want it to be you and her, you get your private questing without any interruptions! 
 and you won't have to pay online fees. Plus it could be fun dating online side by side, killing 
 things....... unless she likes.... blowing frackers in the face! now thats hot! anyway thanks for 
 reading I am off to see the wizard! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haritomo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars and its expansion packs are all wonderful games. There are only a few classes in Guild 
 Wars (no expansions) which is a shame though. Those classes are as following: Warrior, a basic melee 
 tanker class. Ranger, the traditional Archer with abilities involving healing and obtaining pets. 
 Monk, the healer and buff (enhancement) class. Elementalist, mages specializing in lightning, fire, 
 ice, etc. Necromancer, a class specializing in life stealing and summoning creatures out of dead 
 opponents. But a mcuh redeeming feature of the few classes is that you can also have 1 sub-class. 
 Which basically means you get two of the classes at once. Here are some of the basic class combo's: 
 Warrior-Monk. Ranger-Warrior, Elementalist-Necromancer, Ranger- Elementalist. Monk-Necromancer. 
 This is a somewhat difficult game depending if you go solo or if you travel with the NPC or other 
 human companions. The level cap is 20 and there is excellent PvP. I'm sure you will enjoy this 
 game as much as I do. buh-bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creed38
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2008 12:26 pm PT
Review:  The First time i played Guildwars, i was at my friends house, i hadn't bought it for myself yet 
 because my comp was so old at the time, I knew it wouldnt have worked. But anyway, the first time 
 I played, I was totally amazed, the graphics were simply amazing, and obviously far better than 
 those of the only mmorpg I had played previous to GW, runescape... and when you first start the 
 game, you can choose any class you want, from any of the 6 core classes and you change your characters 
 hair, face, height, and dye their clothes any color you want, this makes it so you rarely find 
 two people that look the same, which is pretty cool in my opinion.
  
  In addition to Graphics, the game also has a solid storyline, which is made up with combination 
 of Missions and Quests, both of which can be played with a group or by yourself and a group of 
 NPC's. As you progress through the storyline, you gain experience and gain levels, but also as 
 the story goes, your enemies get tougher and tougher, pretty much keeping the game in a clean balance 
 of good and evil n all that jazz.
  
  Guild Wars, however, is one of those games that is really awsome at first, but begins to get boring 
 after you kind of get the hang of things, even with the very long storyline and all the differnt 
 places you ca go. 
  One thing that really helps this problem is that you can purchase the different expansion packs, 
 plug the code they come with into your current GW's account, and you instantly unlock a whole new 
 storyline and new lands to discover and many new weapons and armor. Each expansion is like a little 
 booster shot, and helps to keep the game interesting.
  
  Definately a must. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: avengery
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  more than you think just reach lvl 20 and the game will start .... perfect new unique system that 
 i dont have to spend my life lvling up, its just about your skills how u fight depending on how 
 u sort your skills how your choose your friends who will heal who will blck who will summon illusions 
 :D who will spread his black magic who will rise undead ,, you know its a great way to play with 
 others online avoiding overwhelming farming type games lvling up for yearand then nothing !!
  i cant wait for guild wars 2 i hope it will be soon as possible have fun all and i vote for this 
 comment too thanks dude PEOPLE WILL ALWAYS SAY WOW IS THE BEST MMO RPG GOING WELL..... THERE WRONG 
 IF YOU HAVE PLAYED THIS THEN YOU WILL NO WHAT I MEAN IF YOU HAVE NOT PLAYED IT THEN PLAY IT AS 
 SOON AS YOU CAN IT WAS ONLY 15 WHEN I BOUGHT IT BUT I THINK IT IS ABOUT 5 - 10 NOW THEY ALSO 
 HAVE EXPANTION PACKS LIKE NIGHTFALL AND FACTIONS THEY HAVE GUILD WARS 2 BUT JUST BUY THE FIRST 
 ONE EYE OF THE NORTH AND GET THE EXPANTIONS THEN YOU WILL GET THE BEST OUT OF GUILD WARS YOU WILL 
 FIND WHEN YOU CREATE A PLAYER YOU WILL GET A OPTION BETWEEN RPG OR PVP, PVP AS YOU SHOULD KNOW 
 IS PLAYER VS PLAYER WHICH IS PRETTY STRAIGHT FOWARD RPG ON THE OTHER HAND IS A CAMPAIN BUT YOU 
 CAN STILL PVP ON THIS ONE AND TRADE AND CHAT WHICH IS VERY GOOD AND CAMPAIN IS VERY SIMPLE TO WORK 
 OUT BUT THE PVP IS PRETTY HARD TO WORK OUT TRUST ME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: devinegod135
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  PEOPLE WILL ALWAYS SAY WOW IS THE BEST MMO RPG GOING WELL..... THERE WRONG IF YOU HAVE PLAYED THIS 
 THEN YOU WILL NO WHAT I MEAN IF YOU HAVE NOT PLAYED IT THEN PLAY IT AS SOON AS YOU CAN IT WAS ONLY 
 15 WHEN I BOUGHT IT BUT I THINK IT IS ABOUT 5 - 10 NOW THEY ALSO HAVE EXPANTION PACKS LIKE NIGHTFALL 
 AND FACTIONS THEY HAVE GUILD WARS 2 BUT JUST BUY THE FIRST ONE EYE OF THE NORTH AND GET THE EXPANTIONS 
 THEN YOU WILL GET THE BEST OUT OF GUILD WARS YOU WILL FIND WHEN YOU CREATE A PLAYER YOU WILL GET 
 A OPTION BETWEEN RPG OR PVP, PVP AS YOU SHOULD KNOW IS PLAYER VS PLAYER WHICH IS PRETTY STRAIGHT 
 FOWARD RPG ON THE OTHER HAND IS A CAMPAIN BUT YOU CAN STILL PVP ON THIS ONE AND TRADE AND CHAT 
 WHICH IS VERY GOOD AND CAMPAIN IS VERY SIMPLE TO WORK OUT BUT THE PVP IS PRETTY HARD TO WORK OUT 
 TRUST ME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godan200
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  THis game starts off with a very slow paced game. But even than it is highly addicting and seems 
 too good to be true. But Its so amazing that you will be up to very late hours even if you have 
 something the next morning. Theres so much it has to offer and you can do anything you want with 
 other players.
  Many people try a game and see if its good. THey see the graphics the voices the game play. They 
 see everything. Unlike many other games their are voice overs THROUGH OUT the game. The PvP is 
 really amazing to a point you can spend hours doing it and it could feel like mere minutes. 
  You can even make a seperate guy JUST FOR PvP. The character gets automatic max lv and all the 
 equitment and skills you would want. 
  Overall i give the game a VERY VERY VERY VERY VERY good review. My In game name is Elite Ranger 
 one if you want to msg me plz do so. I am planing a guild and need all the members i could get 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stowik
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 8, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  It's been around two or more years since I last played Prophecies. It is a great game! Here are 
 some high points:
  
  1) Graphics/Art/Music
  This game is really beautiful. The music is great and there are just a lot of moments while playing 
 that you will just be admiring the variety of the scenery. 
  
  2) Monsters
  The monsters in this game look really cool. They are pretty diverse and broken down into specific 
 roles... they will also work together. 
  
  3) Fast Skill Based Combat With Tactics, Epic Battles; Gameplay
  Along with graphics, I would 
 say this is where Guild Wars: Prophecies really shines. 
  
  First of all, Guild Wars is unique in that 1) you can multiclass pretty early and 2) you have a 
 limited number of skills to bring into battle. 
  
  Multiclassing (or professions, as they are called) adds a wonderful layer of depth to the gameplay. 
 The combination of a primary and secondary class (and there are no prohibited combinations) opens 
 up a huge amount of options and the hundreds of special skills available along with items mean 
 that you can spend a lot of time trying different combinations of things and alter your character 
 for different situations. It just rocks and has to be experienced to really be understood. 
  
  I would say that was my favorite part of Guild Wars: Prophecies. Unlike World of Warcraft, 
 where I would get stuck doing the SAME boring sequence of attacks for nearly every combat... repeated 
 HUNDREDS of times... in Guild Wars: Prophecies I would have a large pool of skills for my primary/secondary 
 profession, along with stats to modify... and I could approach combat in a variety of ways. 
  
  The combat seems to move along really fast... it just doesn't take as long to kill a given monster 
 as it seems to take down a boar in, say, World of Warcraft. There is much more movement/running 
 around and targeting. 
  
  Some of the missions are simply awe inspiring and amazing. Towards the higher levels, such as in 
 the desert, there are some really challenging group quests that require a bit of communication 
 and tactics in order to complete. 
  
  There were a number of times when our group would get wiped save one person... at which point you 
 can change the camera view (if I remember correctly) and watch your surviving group member be the 
 hero and then sneak up and rez a group member who then would rez another and you would have another 
 chance at finishing the mission. 
  
  4) Good Grouping and Guild System; Henchmen
  It seemed to me easier to find a group and get going than in some other MMOs... the guild system 
 seemed to work pretty good... and finally, if you were soloing a lot then there are AI controlled 
 henchmen that you can take along with you. 
  
  5) Pretty Good Story
  The cinematics are pretty good and it's really cool after you finish the starting area and see 
 the same area after it has gone through battles. 
  
  6) Armor/Weapon Variety
  The crafting system is pretty good and it's interesting to salvage things and add runes and parts 
 to swords, for example. 
  
  7) Less Travel Time!
  You can fast travel to a lot of places... most of the zones are instanced, which actually never 
 bothered me as much as I thought it would. 
  
  Negatives 
  
  1) Length
  The primary negative for me with Prophecies is basically that I had a hard time getting motivated 
 to play the game after reaching level 20 and getting my armor imbued. 
  
  I'm sure there is more to the game like Fissure Of Woe and the other place... also, for people into 
 PvP there are guilds that specialize in Guild PvP I believe.
  
  2) Not A Second Job
  This may actually be a good thing. Guild Wars: Prophecies is a really fun experience but at no 
 point did I feel like I had an alter-ego like a person kind of does after spending nearly a thousand 
 hours playing World of Warcraft, for example. 
  
  Guild Wars is more limited and less demanding on your time, so you don't have moments where your 
 are literally spending 20 minutes just to traverse the map to get where you want to go. 
  
  Between the relatively short length of the single player campaign, the instanced zones and fast 
 travel, Guild Wars: Prophecies may not feel as epic as other MMOs but frankly that is a welcome 
 change when a person considers the horrifying amount of time a person can sink into a longer, soul 
 draining exercise such as Everquest or World of Warcraft. 
  
  Overall, this is an excellent MMO that offers some very original gameplay concepts and is a welcome 
 change from the traditional MMO mold created by Everquest and World of Warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: br0kenrabbit
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2008 2:29 am PT
Review:  I picked up Guild Wars about a year ago on a whim, without knowing much about it other than it 
 was a semi-MMORPG without any monthly fees. I was expecting a short, joyful trot but what I got 
 was so much more immersive, so much larger than what I was expecting that only now, a year later 
 do I feel I can give it a proper review.
  
  As you start Guild Wars, the game focus is rather narrow - do these quests, complete this mission, 
 level up - standard fare. It was a while after I hit level 20, that maximum level, that I realized 
 just how much the game opens up late-game. There's so much to chase after: elite armor, rare weapon 
 skins, elite skills, titles, high-level dungeons... and this is not counting the varied options 
 for PvP, either.
  
  The strategy available and necessary in Guild Wars is unlike any other game I've played; it's like 
 a mix of Magic: The Gathering and Diablo. You have a whole ton-and-a-half of skills, but can only 
 use 8 at a time. Some skills play off each other, and even those that don't can be combined in 
 beneficial ways. 
  
  With level 20 being the level cap, and elite armor being just for looks since the much cheaper 
 max armor has the exact same stats, success in this game comes down to the players ability to find 
 and perfect a series of skill builds that suits his play style. 
  
  And it's not that you can find just one build and rely on it throughout the game, as the design 
 is smart enough to keep you having to change your tactics on a regular basis. 
  
  The graphics are fantastic, considering the system specs necessary to max them out. Spell and environment 
 effects are done well, but you'll notice some nice visual effects early in the game that sadly 
 don't show up again.
  
  The few problems I have with this game show up most in combat. Clicking to select AND to move isn't 
 a good idea, and battles often get confusing as everyone bunches up inside of each other. Fortunately 
 all the information you need to fight is displayed on the UI, but it would still be nice to actually 
 see what is going on.
  
  It would be hard to compare this game to anything else, because it isn't quite like anything else. 
 It certainly isn't your traditional MMO, but what it offers can be just as enthralling. 
  
  This game is definitely worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xAngels_Assasin
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2008 12:39 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars prophecis is the greates free to play MMO out there. In the PVE you start in the pre-searing 
 , a world where everything is nice and you learn how to play , the basics etc. After a while you 
 go threw a story-related time skip and this is where the real game begins. This game is not like 
 other MMOS like WOW or LOTRO in the PVe aspect since you dont meet people in the world. You only 
 get to meet people in towns and such establishment. There you meet people and start parties which 
 you can then take in the game , one cool feature is that you dont even need to play with people 
 , in each town theres mercenarie npcs that you can take along , althought they dont compare to 
 a skilled player. The guild function here is you get a guild leader , officers ( as much as the 
 leader wants) and members, only officer and the leader can recruit , promote and kick out. Your 
 leader should buy a guild hall , its a meeting place that for a heavy amount of cashed can be upgraded 
 with mearchants , storage etc.
  
  The PVP is where the game really shines. There are multiple places for pvp ( im just going the cover 
 the ones available for prophesis , others become available when you buy the expansion packs) The 
 random arenas where you enter and get setup a random party of four to fight against another random 
 made party of four, maps change everytime you play but theres a limited amount.. After 10 wins 
 in a row in RA you unlock Team Arenas , almost the same as Ra but you get to choose your team. 
 After ten wins in TA you can go to Halls of Heroes ( Sry if this is wrong , forgot actual name) 
 There you make a team of 8 and fight for contrl of the Halls of Heroes , here teams fight against 
 other nations , (example USA vs Europe) After you take over the hall of heroes , you nation controls 
 it until another nation takes it over. 
  
  Another good feature in the game is the title feature, after you done some specific task you get 
 a title that can be seen by others for bragging right. 
  
  Overall this is a great game that every MMO fan should try. Aslo if you can the expansion are great 
 to try since they add to the pve and pvp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathHeart95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 1:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is not a free MMO. You have to pay $30 for the Game of the Year edition (which includes 
 the expansion pack "Eye of the North") , but it has NO subscription fees. That being said, this 
 game shouldn't be good, but it plays like something that should be compared to Everquest and World 
 of Warcraft.
  
  The story starts with you in the grand city of Ascalon. This is a prologue, and here you will choose 
 your secondary class (I will go into classes later) , and learn about the conflict between the humans 
 and the Charr. After the prologue, you skip to a few years later, where the meat of the story will 
 occur. The only way to move through the story is to complete missions (25 not counting expansion 
 packs) where you and a few other party members (or CPUs) go through a mission trying to complete 
 a certain task. Completing these are also the easiest way to gain access to new cities, and isn't 
 nearly as boring as walking all over the map just trying to find a city that may or may not be 
 there.
  
  Now, the classes in the game (without expansions) are warriors, rangers, elementalists, mesmers, 
 monks, and necromancers. Warriors are close-ranged, Rangers are long range, elementalists and necromancers 
 focus on magic, monks heal, and mesmers are a class that basically slowly kills everything, and 
 are long range as well. You choose your primary class while creating your character, and your primary 
 class determines what skills you have and what armor you wear. Your secondary class adds skills, 
 but you cannot wear their armor. So therefore, a Warrior/Mesmer can take a lot of damage due to 
 the warriors armor, but a Mesmer/Warrior cannot, even though they have the same skills. With even 
 more classes added through expansion packs there are a lot of character combinations you can have.
 
  
  The map itself isn't all that big compared to games such as World of Warcraft, but is still a decent 
 enough size to keep you exploring for a while. It is, however, very similar through most areas. 
 There is basically the wasteland, grassland, and the tundra. They all look the same.
  
  Also, the level cap is VERY low. It does take you a while to level up, but not long enough that 
 you can reach the cap level of 20 within a week, maybe a little more. Luckily, the amount of quests 
 will keep you busy for a while. Not only that, but the meat of the gameplay experience, the player 
 versus player, is fantastic! You can create a character specifically for player versus player, 
 which allows you to change your secondary class whenever you want and you automatically start at 
 level 20, or you can use your player versus environment character. The great thing about the low 
 level cap is that the best players won't be the highest leveled, since everyone basically is at 
 the level cap, the best players will be the best strategic players. And this game really is very 
 strategic. You have to choose (if you make a player versus player character) a secondary class 
 that fits with the rest of your team, or you guys are going down. Also, since you can change stats 
 and skills whenever you want (except during battles) you have to use skills that complement your 
 team. It really is one of, if not THE best player versus player system out there.
  
  So, if you are a person who hates subscription MMOs, even if you could care less, this is a must 
 have game. It's one of the best MMORPGs out there, and it just is a great game. Not much more to 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Strifebringer
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  Hmm where to start? How about the story? The story of this game was amazing. I felt very in depth 
 the whole way through wondering if the Ascalonians would make it through Borlis Pass and if the 
 Mursaat would destroy the planet.
  
  The gameplay is awesome as well. You're limited to 8 skill bar slots, but this forces you to think 
 tactically and work as a team. You'll be constantly amazed at the some of the attacks and looking 
 at how to make your 8 skills work with other people's to make a perfect build for an awesome farm.
 
  
  The graphics are awesome. Even now after over 3 years, this game looks good. The attacks are beautiful 
 and the detail on the characters is great (I love the cape motions) .
  
  The game has loads of replay value. You'll end up wanting to play all the classes before it's over 
 with. There are so many secret places on the map and farmable areas, that you'll NEVER run out.
 
  
  PvP is great too. There is any and every kind of PvP available.
  
  One of the great things about Guild Wars is it's Guilds and Guild Halls. It makes you feel like 
 part of a community and you'll always have someone to help you out.
  
  The Cons:
  There's not many. Some people might look at the level 20 cap as a con, but there is a HUGE difference 
 between a newly made lvl 20 and a very experience level 20. The amount of skills you have also 
 plays a huge roll and your armor's runes.
  
  I think that maybe some of the missions were a little tough for the level of character that you 
 should have at certain areas. 
  
  Also, once everyone figured out running through the whole map, it kind of made playing through 
 again extremely too easy.
  
  
  
  Overall, this game is too good to be held down by what little cons it has. Pick it up and give 
 it 3 weeks. You'll find you'll never want to put it down.
  
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juck_VII
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I've had this game since it first came out and its taking me this long to make a review.
  
  Now getting to the main point the things that Guild Wars as over most MMOS isn't just that is free 
 but the support you get with the game and all the add on content as well. The only little thing 
 I see that does kinda hold it back is the low lvl cap which is 20.
  
  For a new player to Guild wars it might take you 30 minutes to get used to the game play or it 
 might take longer just depends on you.
  
  The story lines of the campaigns are good I know a lot of my Guild mates Love Nightfall more than 
 the rest. But I love the very first Guild wars which is known as prophecies and than factions.
 
  
  Now getting to Eye of the north there is a lot of replay ability due to the Dungeons and than there 
 is Hard mode that makes it to were every thing is lvl 26 to 28 as to lvl 20. As in Hard mode all 
 the missions you finished in normal mode are now open to be done again but at a harder difficulty. 
 One other thing about Eye of the north its not a stand alone so you will need to buy one of the 
 other 3 Guild wars games to use it. And when you finish the core quests your Character get access 
 to the Hall of Monuments were any Mini pets you have pets, heroes with their Elite armor your titles, 
 Destroyer weapons and you own Elite armor can be place here. And when Guild wars two comes out 
 your new character (s) will have rewards unlocked for you in the new game.
  
  Than there is the PvP aspect you can do PvP in 3 to 4 ways one is doing the arenas in the Role 
 playing part of the game. Or you can do the PvP on the battle isles than there Guild vs Guild this 
 is were the real PvP is at in my mind. Due to the challenges of are you going to be facing a really 
 good guild or a ok guild. The las two ways are Alliance Battles. (which is close to WoW's Battle 
 Grounds)
  
  I will give you this helpful info the game can get boring fast if you are not in a good guild trust 
 me I know it took me a while before I found the right guild. And once you do Guild wars will be 
 a lot more fun due to all the things you can do with in your guild.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: superfreak937
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 8:55 am PT
Review:  Okay you obviously have seen the gamespot review and maybe other reviews so I'm just going to talk 
 about some of the things that the other reviews didnt say.
  
  The one HUGE problem with this game that realy holds it back from being an amazing game is the 
 lack of exploration. This was the first mmo I have ever bought (and lord of the rings online will 
 be number 2) but I can say with complete confidence that you can't explore at all in this game 
 because, at the beginning of the game you start in a nice new world thats bursting with colour 
 and life.
  
  But then the real game begins and the enemy ( called charr) manage to bombard your beutiful land 
 and citys using catapults and flaming arows. After this the whole of the world you spend nearly 
 all of the game in is just sand and rock and its dull and boring and its almost like watching cartoon 
 characters drive cars because all the scenery going past the car runs on a cycle and you see the 
 same houses and buildings going past over and over. The scenery after this attack is basiclly an 
 orange sky with orange sand and orange rock plus they can never seem (as I said vefore) to be able 
 to use different rocks its just the same repetetive dull and boring one over and over and over 
 again.
  
  So the lack of exploration is a problem but there are no other real major flaws to speak off just 
 nigles like not being able to make your character unique and things like that. Very small complaints.
 
  
  This game is mostly fun though and quite entertaining for a while and best of all no monthly fees! 
 But there realy is no point buying this game is you can afford the monthly fees to be honest.
 
  
  This is a good, fun and entertaining game but I would only reccomend it to people new to the world 
 of mmo rpgs. Although to be honest I don't know why some people are giving it 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corvan
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 11:09 pm PT
Review:  So little over three years ago, I come across a game called Guild Wars. This was my first MMO ive 
 ever truely played. And for those who say it is not a MMO, hate to break it to you.. but it is.
 
  
  I started back in the beta of Guild Wars, and I still play it to this day, but sadly not so hardcore 
 like i use to. Joined the guild OldGuard in the last beta, and been playing with them ever sense. 
 But enough of my backstory.
  
  The storyline is a rather simple but goes very deep into the history in later areas. You are in 
 training in the rather beautiful lands of Ascalon. This area is what we all call now Pre Searing. 
 (ill explain in due time) ) . This point of the game eases you into the mechanics of the game easly, 
 letting you feel your way into it. Kinda like a new pair of shoes.
  
  Well after questing for awhile, you get your first taste of pvp. Just you and a few others fighting 
 against each other. Win or lose you go on either way with the group your in and you finish it out. 
 Just after the mission ends and killing the final boss, it switches to is semi live cut-scenes. 
 What happens from here is a ran of fire from the sky from the enemy known as The Charr. A very 
 aggressive and tribalistic race of animal like people. Big.. nasty and really need to brush their 
 teeth. Well to make a very long story short, two years after the Searing, which is the total destruction 
 of the Country Ascalon, you some how survived it and now you travel the lands of Tyria with the 
 prince of Ascalon, Prince Rurik. Well i won't spoil for those who haven't played it but it is a 
 very well played story.
  
  The game has now gone through 2 full other games that add to the experience one or two full free 
 updates. and a true expansion. A total of 10 classes are now avaliable in Guild Wars which include: 
 Warrior, Ranger, Monk, Elementalist, Mesmer, Necromancer, Assassin, Ritualist, Paragon, and Derivsh. 
 So i would say they have classes covered. The creation is simple but a little limited. The look 
 of the character is defined somewhat by were you start. It be Tyria, Elona, or Cantha.
  
  Gameplay is simple and easy to use. Just target click and use the skills. Skills in Guild Wars 
 are you special attacks that you can use. Most just require energy ( (or mana for you WoW kids) ) 
 while for the Warrior class needs Adrenaline to use, which is gained by getting a hit on a enemy. 
 The entire game is basted in "Instances". For the unknown this means that once you and your party 
 enter this area, no one else can. Good and bad can come from this. No camping for hours for one 
 monster, but no one can come and help you without starting the area all over again.
  
  The party system is a little on the bad side with a limit of 8 people or npc controlled henchmen. 
 So this calls for some sacrifice and planning.
  
  
  Over all Guild Wars has been a great experince for me and I will for sure be playing Guild Wars 
 2. So look out for the massive warrior Known of Corvan D! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shawn45
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 13, 2008 11:20 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game because it has the attracting monthly fee of zero dollars, and it looked like 
 it would be a fun time killer. I played WoW before it (And I still do now) , so I will be comparing 
 this game a lot to that one.
  
  After installing this game and logging on, the graphics are a huge breath of fresh air from the 
 graphics in other MMORPG games, they're very good looking, and compared to WoW, there's no contest 
 between the two. All the classes work great, and the world looks very nice from what I saw.
  
  Character customization is also a gigantic step above WoW's, allowing you to change the size 
 of your character, their skin color, their face, armor color, hair style, and other small things, 
 that make it so much better than WoW's character customization.
  
  The music and sound in this game is pretty solid. Unfortunately, you never get an epic feeling 
 from the music, which is a shame, because this is the kind of game that could have benefited quite 
 well from something like that. Other than that, the sounds are very good, the swords sound good, 
 and the environmental noises are very nice to listen to as well.
  
  I didn't really involve myself with the community much, because I was one of the people who was 
 somewhat too shy to speak up and ask for a group, but from what I saw, the people were kind more 
 than not. It's not like WoW's community, which unfortunately is rather rude and people whom you 
 wouldn't like to group with.
  
  The quests in this game are very straightfoward, and never leave you hanging. You almost always 
 know where to go, and it's easy to navigate via the little minimap.
  
  Now onto things I didn't like about the game:
  
  Unlike WoW, getting to the max level alone 
 is difficult. Also, there are many places in the world in which you NEED a group to get through 
 to it, which was very unfortunate. The zones in WoW didn't have this restriction, so why would 
 they do it for this game?
  
  Another thing I didn't like was that when you enter an area, you're the ONLY one there, unless 
 if it's a city. While this avoids obvious issues, it only took me out of the world as I looked 
 around and only saw the landscape with no adventurers running around, it actually makes you feel 
 pretty lonely...
  
  One of the mechanics on the game I couldn't get the hang of was the sub-class thing. This is more 
 of a personal issue than a game one, but I just didn't like how I could train into other classes 
 abilities. It did give the game more diversity, but it just wasn't good for me.
  
  Also, if you have played previous MMO's, then you have already seen and done everything this game 
 has to offer. It really offers little new material for veterans of the MMO genre, and it will become 
 boring within a week or two. 
  
  If you're someone wanting something new, I'd pass on this one. I would recommend waiting for Warhammer, 
 for that game looks very promising. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maniac600
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 3:27 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a game that I found to be somewhat different from most games I've played. First off, 
 it's a MMO. Second, the game was inisitent to a point that you were reliant on teamwork. This isn't 
 necissarily a bad thing, but it does make it less enjoyable if you prefer exploring on your own. 
 
  
  First, the pluses:
  Perhaps one of t e best things about this game: It's a subscription-free MMO! This game features 
 a large map, a wide range of classes and subclasses, and many skills that you can use in order 
 to improve or create weapons, armor, and items. There are many quests and tasks you must perform, 
 some of which and dependant on your class. The storyline is solid, with many twists, turns, and 
 surprises to keep you guessing about what will happen next on your quest. You can learn many skills 
 and abilities that you can use to help yourself and your team. 
  
  Teamwork, a big factor in this game, will come into play most of all after you join a guild. If 
 you prefer to play or perform a task or quest alone, you can always use Henchmen (NPCs) , however 
 note that using henchmen only will NOT get you through the bulk of this game. That's why it's a 
 good idea to join a guild- you'll always have teammates who can assist you with a difficult quest 
 or task, and you can visit your guild hall to meet with your guild members and do other things 
 when not on a mission.
  
  The Bad:
  
  
  
  The graphics are somewhat mediocre, but it's nothing to be surprised about seeing as it's a MMO. 
 However, you will most likely feel somewhat deprived if you play this game after playing a Next-Gen 
 game. 
  
  In my Opinion, I disliked the fact that you were almost always reliant on your teammates, especially 
 later in the game. No matter how high a level you were (The max level is 20, though) , you will 
 most likely need a party just to survive. This got on my nerves from time to time, especially when 
 there's people grouping together and they don't have room for you or just don't want to add you. 
 This wasn't always a problem, but it can and most likely WILL get on your nerves.
  
  The gameplay is somewhat repetitive... despite a changing world caused by plot twists and continuation 
 of the storyline, the actual combat factor of the game got kind of tedious. Basically you click 
 the enemy, click attacks, and heal or use spells/special skills as necessary. This became somewhat 
 boring after a long time, and at times it's a wonder you got anywhere at all with such weak characters 
 depending on teammates completely for survival.
  
  Other than these flaws, the game isn't 'bad,' but it has some improvements to build on if GW 2 
 is going to be a success. I'd definitely suggest this game to someone who doesn't like paying monthly 
 fees for MMOs. Though it has its problems, it' still a game that will keep your interest despite 
 some problems with gameplay.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lourens_Egberts
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  First off i made a ranger who where so cool with a bow and those pets where so cool then i tought 
 lets make a mesmer and annoy others in player vs player
  then i made a warrior to hack and slash thats just uber then i tought lets make a necromancer to 
 play with the death and manupilate others then there came an expensian called factions then i decided 
 to create a monk to aid allys after a while i made a elementalist to nuke all the way after a while 
 nightfall came and i made a lovely dervish to play with a sharp scythe and play the reaper herself 
 after a few months i created a paragon who are also damn cool then i decided to create an assassin 
 who can kill in silence and slice my apple with a dagger uber then there came an expension called 
 eye of the north where you can explore underground dungeons and get all kinds of wonderfull treasure 
 way to cool im telling you buy guildwars right now along with the expensions ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoraOfKingdom
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2008 3:08 am PT
Review:  This game is too addictive for an MMORPG, but for some people.. lag could overcome them even if 
 you have passed the recommended requrements. But this game has the best elements to build up a 
 great MMORPG with great story, great gameplay and great moments. One of the pros is the characters, 
 the dialogue is amazing and the character design is outstanding that makes this game a must buy. 
 Even tho you start out as a newb to the game.. levelling up isnt that hard except when you reach 
 somewhere near level 10. The game has many people playing on it so you wont have trouble finding 
 people to party with or even start a guild war! And what adds to all of this is the skills. Every 
 one of them is balanced and will keep you playing till you have no idea you reached a high level. 
 But what really sucks in this game is you cant go above level 20, and it might be a huge bummer 
 to some people but this game will keep you playing due to the challenging guild wars and amazing 
 boss monsters you'll encounter! I recommend you to buy this game or you'll be missing out a golden 
 egg. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superman_legend
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  (REVISED) I owned guild wars for sometime now but stop playing after I beat the game which doesnt 
 take to long (when it comes to mmos) especially the last versions but definetly long enough for 
 what u pay it almost a steal and good amount tactics with friends. It great for player who want 
 to play an mmo type game but dont want montly fees. Its like a regular game though in the end there 
 nothing significantly new thats added. Once u beat game only thing thing you will want to do is 
 buy the next one you will more than likely stop playing a little while after that if u dont feel 
 like playing exactly them same thhing over with a different class or pvp. Soon of a later down 
 the road there is nothing new though when it comes to pve but this is an opinion lot longevity 
 depending on what you looking for especially compared to your average on time fee game. The exploration 
 is not that great as it seems if u played a game Lotro or other big mmos because its not that big 
 of a game. Its enough to last u a month or little more unless u make yourself find things to do. 
 I would say within half a year to year for casual players you would of seen everything there is 
 too see in all the guildwars games if u get them all. Its definetly worth what u pay for it and 
 the developers know thats why they its free after u buy. It was my cup of tea for a little while 
 and still could be but after I played a really good paid for mmo it was hard to go back especially 
 because i like lots exploration and pve wanted it to last more than a year. 
  
  Its alot of things in this game u cant do as in paid for mmos. Such as crafting, getting a horse 
 or mount, get past lvl 20, have stuff to really do after 20 or beating the game pve wise unless 
 u make alt or buy another GW. These are just something that different again not bad by any means 
 for a one time fee. You can beat the game completely in less than a month until you buy another 
 one that depends on how much u play. You cant go outside of a city and see ppl that not in your 
 party. You got to get a party in a city then when u leave u be in the world but not in the same 
 one everyone else is. Kinda like being in your house with a lot of people u pick who u want to 
 go outside with u see a specifically for u world with these people. And another group goes out 
 the same door in your house and they have they own world. The world is exactly the same but u dont 
 see each other. Because outside of a city you will never meet new people u can only see and make 
 a party in a city. So partially make the world not seem all the way real but a fun and beautiful 
 world it is u always want more. There are not thousands of skills like some people are saying or 
 anything. Maybe a little over a hundred that all the classes combined and u can only have 8 skills 
 equipped at a time. So u might have 15 skills are so with a character but only 8 of them u will 
 get to use at a time. 
  
  If you looking for something to really hold onto I would go for a recent paid for mmo theres even 
 one with a lifetime one time. If you looking for just some fun to hold you over for a while I would 
 go with this and if you dont like monthly fees or if you into a little bit of pvp. Or go with both 
 i mean its a one time buy. I also have to say NCsoft is great at supporting this game even though 
 ppl dont pay them monthly they always have events going on. Deserves the hype for free to pay after 
 the intial purchase game but you will probably always want more. I did. It was very fun until I 
 beat everything wasnt into a lot of alts or pvp though. I did like the other guild wars new classes. 
 The people who didnt agree might of been right in disagree on my first review because I should 
 of reviewed the game for what it was. This is only game Ive made that mistake on and it wont happen 
 again.
  
  Amazing game for what it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathyboy123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars has a great system that allows you to meet up with players, kill monsters, do quests, 
 do missions, and its massive amount of players make it even better. The guild warfare is great 
 when you have GvG battles.
  The expansions make the massive game even better with new professions, continents and heroes. All 
 i can really say about this game is... It's a masterpiece, the only flaw is the level cap and lag. 
 The level cap is 20 but guil wars 2 wil have a level cap of 100 so i hear. The lag is only when 
 places are crowded or if you have just got the game. (that is what happened with me.) Its best 
 played when you're with friends so i hear but still great single player. 
  Here are the following expansions:
  Eye Of The North
  Nightfall
  Factions
  Creating a character 
 is also easy, just choose whether its a Role Playing character or a PvP (Player Versus Player) 
 then what campaign to choose (Prophecies, Factions, Nightfall) then its profession, whether its 
 a male or female, design it, choose its name and you're done! It may sound hard but its really 
 easy the only thing is finding a name that has not already been used... As i said there are lots 
 of players (over 5 million to be exact)
  You may find it hard to start with when you are a low level but will get the hang of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scianix-Black
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 16, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a great game that I'd recommend to anyone who wouldn't mind getting hooked.
  
  Guild Wars is much different from other MMORPGs on the market today, as it's completely skill 
 based. There's no level 148 or anything like that, only level 20. Once you get to level 20, it's 
 all about your armor rating and your skill. There's literally hundreds of skills in total and you've 
 got to choose 8 whenever you go out into battle.
  
  Depending on what skills you choose will determine your experience and how well you do. If you 
 find two skills don't go well together, then head back to town and switch 'em up. That's really 
 the basic formula, in fact.
  
  You sit in a lobby where you can join a party or sell goods, then you go out into the "zones" and 
 kill various monsters, you get items the monsters drop, then you can go back to town and sell for 
 money. Fairly simple, but it works. And it works really well. A lot of the towns/outposts have 
 missions that you can start in town, which will initiate a countdown, after which, the mission 
 will start and you and your party will be transported outside of the town to do said mission.
 
  
  Each mission you complete helps to further the storyline. After you've done the storyline (which, 
 in my opinion, is the best GW storyline) , you can always go for titles or Elite armor to show off 
 to your friends; friends being people from school or people in your guild/alliance.
  
  Although, I'll be honest. None of the titles seem to really be worth the work to me, but I'm just 
 the kind of player who likes to have fun rather than get titles for prestige. It all depends on 
 your tastes.
  
  All in all, really anyone can enjoy this game. It's a technically sleek looking RPG with a handsome 
 story, lots of choices in skills and classes and plenty of interactivity with other players as 
 well as the option of completing the entire game with computer controlled characters.
  
  It's good! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lingojac
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is really the answer to almost all the problems associated with the MMORPG genre, and 
 should be played by those who hate World of Warcraft and similar games for what it is. 
  
  For one, the problems of spawn camping, player killing, and other players generally getting in 
 the way when you're trying to accomplish a quest are for the most part eliminated by the travel 
 system. There are generally two kinds of areas, Towns/Outposts and Explorable Areas. A town or 
 outpost is where random interaction with other players occurs. This is also where a great deal 
 of quests are started, through stationary NPC questgivers.
  
  However, once you need to start exploring new lands or kill monsters, you walk from the outpost/town 
 through a 'portal', which is followed by a loading screen, and then you are transferred just outside 
 of the city, to an explorable area that was generated on the spot, just for you, so that you can 
 do your killing in peace, without unwanted interaction with the all-too-common immaturity that 
 is always in an MMORPG game's community.
  
  The game's combat is also a bit more exciting than other MMORPG games. Rarely is your character 
 standing around during combat, and the combination of 8 of your learned skills that you choose 
 (and can change at any time in a town/outpost) helps you win the battle the way you're best at.
 
  
  In MMORPG gaming, I'd classify PVP combat into 2 categories. There's the click-to-move games, which 
 has 2 characters standing infront of one another, striking away while using skills to make that 
 hacking and slashing more effective. Then there's the WASD-movement games, where dodging is half 
 the battle. The combat in Guild Wars is the latter, no more and no less. It's like WoW, only a 
 bit less complex, but still definitely fun.
  
  I also observe that Guild Wars PvP feels more like a competition than the war mentality that World 
 of Warcraft can have. Whether this is good or bad depends on, well, whether you'd like that or 
 not.
  
  Do you really like to play WoW, though? Guild Wars still got what you like, and you'll find a similar 
 gaming community and competitive environment.
  
  Bottom line: Play Guild Wars. There's no monthly fee, either! "But the game's too expensive" you 
 may say! Amazon. com sells this game for CHEAP.
  
  Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reduserisk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 4:43 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a fun game to play and has earned my respect and my money for a couple of reasons. 
 One, is the no monthly fee, and two, is their attempt to change the way an mmo is played in an 
 effort to "level the playing field" for all players and keep the focus on skill instead of only 
 who has the best gear, not to mention a very reasonable time investment with little to no grinding. 
 That said, this approach has led to some set backs.
  
  GOOD: Very fun to play and has its own unique feel. The graphics are impressive and at the same 
 time not too demanding for lower end pc users. The game has a decent story line that you can play 
 through in pve and some beautiful environments to go along with with fun team based game play. 
 Also, players can choose to team up with npc's of different classes to run the missions and get 
 through the pve content if they are unable or unwilling to deal with other players. And, while 
 some players have spoken negatively of using the npc's I have successfully completed the game's 
 pve content using their help alone. Although, I would suggest using real people if given the chance. 
 But, pvp is where Guild Wars really shines. I don't know if there is another more balanced and 
 purely skill based pvp system out. Guild wars focuses on unlocking skills, which there are thousands 
 of, and allows you to also take on a second class to use a portion of that particular classes' 
 skills to complement those of your primary class. PvP is fun and highly competitive, and really 
 requires team coordination and smarts. If your serious about pvp get Guild Wars. Other cool features 
 include the ability to dye and customize armor, pick "districts" inside cities to meet friends 
 if overcrowding becomes an issue, an innovative mini map that allows players to mark objective 
 points that everyone in the party can see and even draw on it to indicate stopping points or plans 
 of attack. Also, the ability to instant travel to towns that have already been discovered is a plus. 
 
  
  BAD: Although Guild Wars made strides in creating a low cost and more balanced/skill based mmo, 
 in doing this they inadvertently lost some appeal, at least for me, in a few areas. To start, the 
 level cap is only 20, which is good for balance issues, but I still think its too low and could 
 be raised and still maintain balance. Once pve content is done it is done, and from then on its 
 hunting for skills so you can pvp with them. This is not a pve friendly game. Adding to that same 
 theme is the low volume of weapons and armor sets. Although the number increases with the other 
 titles that are linked to the game such as Factions and Nightfall, the gear has a cap on it and 
 is pretty much the same, except for a change in its look and style. This is disheartening to anyone 
 who wants to do more in pve and not purely focus on pvp. The game also is extremely linear which 
 is disappointing because the environments are so well done. I always hated the feeling of being 
 "glued" to the ground and stuck on a path surrounded by "invisible walls". Also, Guild Wars instanced 
 the entire pve environment. This is good at times when you only want you and your party to be able 
 to do something, but at the same time it takes away from the interactive feel that an mmo should 
 have. 
  
  That being said, Guild Wars, the original, is a fun game to play and I really enjoyed it. The other 
 additions to the game, including Factions, Nightfall, and GWEN, which add more land mass, different 
 skills, new themes, such as Asian and African architecture, landscapes, and armor, are also enjoyable 
 but suffer from some of the same restrictive gameplay issues previously mentioned. Factions and 
 Nightfall were essentially the same game as the original with some minor upgrades and a different 
 environments. Check out my reviews for those games if you want to know more. Overall, Guild Wars 
 is no blockbuster but is definitely solid. And if your a die hard pvp'er then look no futher. If 
 you want to do both pve and some casual pvp or just pve by itself, then you may want to look elsewhere. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yahiko182
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars
  
  Pros
  
  The game comes with free online, large map, plenty of spells, quests, a variety of warrior classes 
 to chose from, a secondary class.
  
  Cons
  
  The games story feels a bit short, considering the re play value is high, it pails in comparisen 
 to World of War Craft. After playing through the story you'll feel a little un fulfilled, no more 
 new quests, just a bunch of strategy and farming. The games control scheme take time to grow on, 
 it needs work.
  
  Game Play
  
  The game play is great but not exceptional, it's not a phenomenon of any sort. The game play is 
 ruined by the control configuration. Yes you can change it arround, but who wants to go through 
 the effort? Next the game lacks a feeling of freedom, meaning your not able to jump arround, fly, 
 or swim. The game does not give you that sense of freedom you'll feel in games like Elder Scrolls 
 4 Oblivion. However the game play is sophisticated enough so you can come up with solid strategies 
 to defeat your opponent. Another great addition to Guild Wars is the secondary class. The Secondary 
 class opens up a whole new avenue of spells to chose from, and it gives you more strategies you 
 can use in Player vs Player.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics will leave you no room to complain. Yes it is a beautiful game. However don't expect 
 graphics on par with a Unreal 3 engine. The game has enough to keep you from putting away the game 
 just because its ugly.
  
  Sound
  
  The sound gets repetitive always expect the same sound when you fire spells or hit any target. 
 No variety just swish bam, or clink clank. Nothing to really get hyped up over about. Matter in 
 fact after hearing 10,000 swish bams, i think i'll just turn off the games sound and listen to 
 music instead. Yes it gets that bad, repetitive and annoying. The music feels non-existant it's 
 there but it isn't. It doesn't give enough umph behind it to give you a multi- sensory aesthetic 
 experience. In certain instances the games choreography of the music and the cut scenes will give 
 you the goose bumps, but that will be in rare instances.
  
  Difficulty
  
  Forunately in the realm of Guild Wars your given a choice of Difficulties after you defeat the 
 game once. Playing the game on higher difficulty levels is difficult and not recommended unless 
 if you have rare spells and unique character builds.
  
  Story
  The story is mediocre. Nothing personal to the guild wars franchise it's just not good. The ending 
 doesn't give you a sense of accomplishment. The story just feels like some washed over junk. I 
 mean you go from one place to the next. We honestly don't care, all we want to to do is "swish 
 bam" or Clink clank. That's all just skip the annoying cinematics we just don't care. Yes the story 
 is that bad it grabs no ones attention. It will never approach a Final Fantasy sensation when it 
 comes to story telling unfortunately.
  
  Player vs Player
  
  The PVP is great, but considering a lvl 20 cap there's not much for those hard core gamers. Hard 
 core gamers (including me) like to see the level of our character go up as the level of the actually 
 gamer in skill go up as well. So the level cap gives you this vague feeling of accomplishment. 
 When pitted against other players the experience isn't as good because you have no way of gauging 
 yourself, unless if you want to try and see how good your doing based upon the varying skill levels 
 of other opponents in PVP. For instance it takes you about 16 hours to get to lvl 20. Now your 
 up against opponents at PVP who may have played over 200 hours are your an in experienced player 
 with only 16 hours of game play, The level of skill varies far to much with a low level cap and 
 the best way to fix that is to have a higher lvl cap, because you wont see as much variance in 
 the skill levels of varying gamers .
  
  Guilds
  
  Working with guilds is borring. All you'll ever do with a guild is do the same old swish bang, 
 maybe add in a couple glyphs, with a faster running spell at PVP. The game offers not nearly enough 
 mini games to occupy guild members. However guilds are manageable thanks to NC Softs effort to 
 make it a user friendly system.
  
  Replay Value
  Extremely high, the story mode takes a fairly big chunk of time. Of course your going to try and 
 experiment with other character classes. Oh wait you have to do a spell. Did I mention I need to 
 explore the desert a little more? Oh man I want to farm for that mega cool charm. You get the idea 
 plenty to do, but what your doing may or may not give you a feeling of accomplishment. The main 
 issue with this game is, there's plenty to do, but all those things that you can do... fun? The 
 answer is most likely in between. The average Guild Wars Player, plays from 60 to 100 hours. Not 
 as much, as World of WarCraft players, However this game was designed for casual gamers and it 
 fill its role well, and it will fill that role fo years to come.
  
  
  Final Verdict
  
  You will be spending quite a bit of time on this game, The game contains a ton of value for 
 how much your spending. Considering there's not subscription fee your not being jipped at all. 
 The game is good, not great not excellent. However the replay value and the no subscription policy 
 brings this game to a rating of 8.5. Imagine playing a game that's not as good as oblivion online 
 with less freedom and control. The game has an ingenious design for casual gamers. Still it lacks 
 much for the hard core masses. 100 hours for hard core gamers just isn't enough. The fun factor 
 is diminished however all the reasons above make up for what you lose out on. In the end guild 
 wars can be a 10 minute toss and you forget all about it or you develope your skills as a guild 
 wars player and pwn in PVP
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schweinhoundt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 4, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  Much mmorpgs make a lvl grinding system so that players don't focus on the games bad qualities 
 but Guild Wars has shown that it is totally opposite towards this trend. There is several factors 
 that proves this and i will name a couple of them. First off the game is made with thought of people 
 with low-end systems, the thing is though, they have remained the game good looking and functional 
 in the process. It has only 20 lvls so that skill goes before hours played and it also helps people 
 to refrain from calling each other the renowned word "noob". The story is made from loose lines 
 slowly entwining as the game processes. In prophecies the main "bad guys" are The Charr ( Furry 
 Cat/human creatures) and the Stone Summit ( Tiny armor-clad dwarves) which will do all in their 
 power to stop you (As in most games) . The game is instance based, which means it's built up with 
 areas connected through portals. Inside the towns and outposts you can chat, trade or whatever 
 you want with other players but outside in the instance areas you can only play with a party of 
 players that you set up in the outpost/town before leaving. There are six professions in Guild 
 Wars prophecies (which you can attend as primary or secondary) : ranger, monk, warrior, mesmer, 
 elementalist and necromancer and each one of them have their own set of skills. Skills play the 
 biggest role in defeating enemies and surviving. There are lots of skills that changes the tide 
 of battle to your favour, in GW you depend more on your skills than your weapon. The ai enemies 
 are quite good and use their skills sufficiently enough for you to stop mowing them down now and 
 then, sometimes they even put up a huge struggle leaving you with 60 Death Penalty and great anger. 
 Strategy and experience is the key in this game, not lvls and armors and that makes this game a 
 good choice for both casual and elite gamers alike. If you want a good customizable mmorpg experience 
 that actually can be worth spending your time on and that don't require you to play all day long 
 or pay monthly fees i would say Guild Wars is the best or maybe the only alternative. 
  Guild Wars is the best choice when you're going to take the first step into the big genr and it 
 has enough content to captivate you for years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehfireballer
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 27, 2008 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a free mmorpg from NCSOFT. It has decent graphics, good gameplay, and isn't very 
 hard to find a party. The best part of this game is the story. It has some twists and turns and 
 is very good for and mmo. Also, the pvp is very good and allows you to skip the roleplaying if you 
 just want pvp. They have around 9 maps and many different game modes. However, this game has it's 
 share of problems.
  This game constantly instances everything, and you can't solo this game. You always need a party, 
 and a lot of people will make you pay to run you through missions or quests. Also, getting to zones 
 appropriate for your level will either take a really long time, or will cost you money. Also, limiting 
 your skills to 1 bar, and having 8 slots maximum make for some very strategic, but very hard gameplay. 
 Also, every time you die, you lose 15% of your health and energy until you return to a non-instanced 
 area.
  I would recommend this game to those who don't want to pay monthly fees and love pvp. However, 
 this game won't last you much longer than 100 hours, because of the low level cap, and how it takes 
 about 30 hours to hit level 20, as they made the level cap way too low. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: umbracascade
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 27, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Guild wars is a fun immersive game that is easy to play but hard to master. You can choose to play 
 pvp or pve or both but whatever option you will still have to unlock many skills in order to beat 
 the established players. Not to mention that you need some experience before you can use these 
 skills in efficent builds. The game lets you choose 9 skills from a long list of skills. The combinations 
 are endless and sometimes you can create a monstrous build out of a joke build. I know I have when 
 I created a corpse eating resurrection build. 
  
  Guild wars although a few years old still looks marvelously pretty. Some of my friends have been 
 put off by the starting area which I admit is a bit drab and desolate, but it is in a post cataclysm 
 world. The area get better as you travel, the maguma jungle being a great tourist destination and 
 krtya as well. 
  
  Gameplay is going to be the most important factor in judging this game though. While in pve your 
 skills are most likely to suffice, in pvp my complaint is that the richer you are (ie the more 
 money in real life you have) the more versatile and powerful you are. What do i mean? I mean that 
 if you have enough money to buy all the campaigns and the expansion you will have skills that provide 
 a big advantage in pvp. Skills that I only wish I have, such as non sucking self heal for certain 
 characters are only in a certain campaign. No doubt these other campaigns are fun in their own 
 right, but I'm stating a simple truth that if you have only one campaign you're going to face a 
 lot of prejudice from other players about getting accepted into their party and etc. It's not going 
 to be an easy ride when you have obsolete skills while everyone else has broken skills (I'm looking 
 at you ursan blessing) 
  
  I've played this game a lot now and I'm quite familar with the gameplay for 3 characters. The titles 
 in this game, unless you have a lot of money and time to burn are not going to be worth it for 
 the most part. This game is fun but sometimes you're going to be farming and getting bored. At 
 this point, I suggest that you should stop, lest you end up in the same trap as me and too late 
 to realize it. Let me just suggest an command you should learn, /age. It will show your play time. 
 Yeah that finally convinced me that I was getting too addicted. This game isn't bad but be wary 
 of its life stealing properties. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaddron
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 27, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Guild wars is one of the best mmos out there and it could be the best free mmo right now. Its has 
 vary good graphics for a ftp mmo and its interface is put together vary nicely. Another good part 
 about this game is that is can run on older computers fairly nicely. Guild Wars gets update about 
 every two week to fix any bugs, balance skills in PvP, and fix any other problems that might have 
 come up (not that there are many problems) . Most of the stuff that people dont like about guild 
 wars like the lvl 20 cap and how you by you self outside of town will be changed is guild war 2 
 not that they needed to be changed.
  
  I'd have to say the only bad parts to guild wars is there isnt that many different kinds of armor 
 I think its maybe 12-14 for each class. Each mission you do in the main story pretty much require 
 you to join a pug (pick up group) or pay to join a group which can get expensive and thats only 
 if you can find a group. After you complete the main quest which can take anywere from 30-100 hour 
 depending how lucking you are at finding groups that will complete the mission the first time, 
 but after you complete it all thats really left to do is farm (kill monsters for items and money) 
 till you can afford the most expensive armor that is no better then armor you can get fairly cheap 
 it just looks defferent or you can grind untill you get titles like get to this amount of xp. will 
 out dieing. 
  
  Other than that guild wars is a vary good game that take a while to get into but after you do it 
 vary fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minigeo
Rating: 8
Date: May 23, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  If you have seen any of my other reviews i like to say how a game is bad and good so this is what 
 im goin to do this time.
  Guild Wars is set in Tyria and you start in Ascalon. Then every thing changes blah blah blah guess 
 what happens... and you have to save the day with the other millions of people playing it.
  It is a good game with easy to pick up gameplay but can get a little tedious because of the loading 
 times between every city and town. The advantages this brings are that you cant have lvl 20`s in 
 a lvl 1 place annhilating stuff in 1 shot just to annoy new people in this world.
  Guild Wars does have great graphics and good gameplay which is easy to pick up and play.
  Overall 
 Guild Wars in my view is a little rough round the edges but hopefully Guild Wars 2 will fix these 
 issues.
  
  By the way dont say i havent played it long enough played it for 2 years for about 1,500 hours 
 so dont say i havent played it long enough 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phenom316
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  I'm not sure where to start because this game has too many features for me to write down.
  
  I believe this is the greatest RPG ever made on PC. Its hard to classify it into an MMO or 
 not because you get a fresh world when you enter the terain (so no Kill Stealers) but either way, 
 its one of the best in its class!
  
  First off all i have to say this game takes months to actually understand no matter how much of 
 a quick learner or gamer you are.
  
  I bought this game from Futureshop in March/April 2008 with my buddy because I heard its just great 
 and the back of the game looks pretty cool.
  
  I didnt sleep that night and went to bed the next night at 6am just because i had math finals. 
 After 1 month of playing, i typed in "/age" in the command box and in 29 days i played over 300 
 hours! 11hours a day =D XD
  
  I installed the game and was like WTF because i didnt understand one thing.
  I finished a couple 
 solo quests and killed some monsters. It wasn't too fun. Mind you that the TuT island (Post-ascalon) 
 is pretty big and stuff to do but weird.
  
  Being a noob in this game and being on TuT island sucks but when you make it to this real game 
 and understand stuff, words cannot describe how awesome it is.
  
  Anways, I finally finished TuT island and got to the game and did some quests. I joined an awesome 
 nice guild and explored alot of places. Getting to LVL 20 takes a couple days the first time you 
 do it and when you get to it thats when the game begins!
  
  You get great armour, fight insane monster, get awesome skills and have a ton of fun.
  
  Heres 
 a very quick brakedown on how awesome this game is:
  
  GREATEST FEATURE = Insane Huge Detailed Monsters/Dragons!
  GREATEST FEATURE = 38 Possible Titles! 
 Show how great you are!
  GREATEST FEATURE = Best, Nicest Community In Any MMO!
  GREATEST FEATURE = Free 2 Play! No Monthly Fee's!
  - Many unique crazy classes and secondary 
 classes
  - Cool armour and weapons
  - 1000's of skills/spells per character
  - Amazing Graphics! (Search Bone Dragon on google images)
  - Massive PvP
  - 1000s of quests
 
  - Large areas to explore, that it will takes you years
  - 3 Game expansions make it impossible to finish
  - Hard Mode so no noob monsters, all are challenging
 
  - Heroes and Minions where you equip skills, armour and commands.
  - 100s of stuff to do, explore and finish
  - Never boring, always repetitive fun
  - Dungeons 
 are huge and make you rich fast
  - Teleporting available so no boring running
  - Much Much Much Much Much Much More
  
  I could go and on, on how amazingly awesome this game 
 is but to really understand you should try it out. Its one of those PC games that are in the highest 
 leage, that define RPGs, MMOs and Gaming.
  
  Btw my IGN (In Game Name) Is Blood Executioner so add me if you ever need any help.
  
  
  My 
 rating scale depends on the platform and genre its on. Since PC has much more awesome games on 
 it, i mark much harder on it so a 80% on PC would mean its great compared to the hundreds of other 
 awesome PC games of that genre, and might be better than a 98% of consoles. A great game is a great 
 game, on the system. I like to keepy my reviews short and sweet, so i wont bore you and get to 
 the point. If theres an official review out on Giant Bomb, you should definately read it because 
 they are the best reviewers in the worlds! =D
  
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  Graphics 10/10
  Fun 10/10
  Replay 9/10
  Single+Multiplayer 9/10
  
  
  Overall = 48/50 = 96% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: upiter000
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 18, 2008 7:53 am PT
Review:  Guild wars is a great MMORPG and one that puts it aside from MMOs is that there is no subscription 
 fee, one other great thing about it is its story the story may be a little corny at times but it 
 will get you involved in it right away.
  The character system is also very good in the main game you can choose between 6 classes, Elementalist 
 , Mesmer, Monk, Necromancer, Warrior, and of coarse the Ranger now when you choose your profession 
 you go to a screen where you change your hair face eccetera eccetera and the final stage you choose 
 the colour for your armour.
  
  The story is slow at the beginning but it heats up in a matter of hours the story puts you in the 
 kingdom of Ascalon where the rellentless Charr forces but you are safe for the moment because of 
 the Great Northern Wall but but those mangy babboons were smarter than we thought they were they 
 found a way around the wall or in there case through it. Later in the story more twists and turns 
 occur.
  
  But Guild Wars isn't all great you know it has some problems of its own. The main problem is it's 
 level cap you can only advance to level 20 which shortens the adventure but gives you more chance 
 at The G
  reat Temple of Balthazar the PvP and GvG take place here. The last problem in this game is well 
 you can only be human and well that just sucks.
  
  
  Guild Wars in all is a great game that anyone can play and cant pay a monthly fee there are some 
 downsides to it but still a great story great gameplay and thats why its a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sergeantscul
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2008 4:38 am PT
Review:  Guildwars is a unique game that is a class of its own. For starters its F2P so if you wanna play 
 a awesome game thats a one time fee of $50 or spend $30 for WOW and have to pay like $200 a year 
 buying time cards. Some fun things about it, armor doesent mean the world, you lose nothing if 
 you die (except a death penalty which lowers your health by some % but wears off eventualy) . Combat 
 is really cool and theres literally 100's of skills. Probably even +1000. So how many times can 
 you play a fun, awesome mmo that you lose nothing in deaths and its FREE TO PLAY!!!
  So if youve got a good comp, $50 layin around and some time on your hands, I'd buy GW and just 
 try it out. And Oh yah. One last thing... The people in Guildwars are really nice like 1% are dumb, 
 scammer or rude. The rest are really helpful. When I first started and got to Post (youll know 
 what that is later) I literally had people offering me to help me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guitarfreak15
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 17, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  It's what you'd expect when you're looking for an online game. It's highly addicting when you see 
 all the players around you and you really want to strive to match them. The battles may consist 
 of simple point and click and hope you have the right 10 spell limit to take them down. Yes, you 
 can only have 10 spells on you at a time. The annoying teleports really separate the game from 
 city dwelling fun times and fighting monsters solo or with a group of up to 7 others. So basically, 
 you can't have more than 8 people in a party to venture outside the cities and kick butt. Which 
 is highly annoying. You can't really enjoy the whole of the game unless you buy all the expansion 
 packs. There are no monthly fees which make it great but you still feel obligated to purchase more. 
 The guild aspect of the game is indeed a nice one but can become very hard and time consuming to 
 keep it running or simply be involved. The economy of the game is partially npc driven which partially 
 takes away from the realism. But you can only expect so much realism from a fantasy medieval (ish) 
 online role playing game. You really don't get near as much player interaction as you want either. 
 You can't really just be an average citizen of a city and go to the bar and chill out while you 
 watch people play darts and get drunk BECAUSE 1. there only 'citizens' are npcs 2. every other 
 person in a city is a hero just like you and has witnessed the death of the king 20 times just 
 like you and 3. there are no bars or houses you can go into at all. So for a fantasy 'I'm a super 
 hero' feeling game, this game does it quite well. But for a 'I want to hang out with friends' kind 
 of game, it lacks in some aspects. It's like a race consisting of thousands of people trying to 
 get to the top of the ranks. It's good adventure also. But HIGHLY, HIGHLY, repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainfez3
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 12, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  This isn't technically my first MMO, but considering I spent a whole 15 minutes with WoW, I'm calling 
 it that. I love the game and it's not that difficult to see why. The worlds of GW are awesome and 
 vast, containing every cliche you've ever traversed in your gaming life. Deserts, winter wonderlands, 
 beaches, and those are just the normal ones. All in all, there are 10 different proffesions to 
 choose from, with thousands of more character possibilities when it comes to skills, especially 
 since each new expansion adds 150.
  
  Graphically, GW is on par with and even beyond other games. My system isn't high end, but I can 
 still run the game on fair settings and get great results. Landscapes are wide and detailed, and 
 populated by myriads of baddies. It's a blast just to group and go out to try the new skill you 
 just got from that last quest.
  
  Getting together with other players encompasses the most enjoyable part of GW, since you can work 
 together with your friends to fight and defeat monsters, or other players if you decide to try 
 out the PvP modes or to participate in other teams components. If getting together with others 
 isn't your thing, no need to worry. The game provides you with computer characters to help you 
 with quests, and even provides Heroes, a sort of computer controlled "you" that levels up and can 
 gain new skills, and equipment that you all choose.
  
  All in all, I've got 3 great reasons to buy this game. (1) It's free to play online. (2) It's fun, 
 addictive, and a blast to play for hours or minutes. (3) It's a MMO experience unlike any other 
 out there, and never loses its "killing edge". Go on and give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StrayEagle
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 11, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars seemed like a great game when I bought it, a alternative to WoW and no fees.... cool. 
 I was half right. The story mode (Role Playing) was and still is very fantastic, but the PvP aspect 
 is a major letdown. It doesnt come close to WoW PvP and its pretty much broken. On to the review.
 
  
  Graphics: Very nice graphics, somewhat like Oblivion's. Capes, feathers, and many other things 
 sway in the wind as sway as you move. The graph. team was so thourogh that the feathers on your 
 headress will sway depending on the breeze. The armor, spell effects, and just all around everything 
 is beautifully polished.
  
  Sound/Music: Music is alright, althought you never really pay much attention to it, its just, there.
 
  
  Gameplay: So you've made your account, and ready to make your first character. You choose on your 
 class (basic ones are just Warrior, Ranger, Monk, Necromancer, Mesmer, and Elementalist. But when 
 you get certain expansions other classes are unlocked) . Then you customize it up a bit. You choose 
 the gender, height, hair color, skin, and hair for your charcter. Then you come up with a name, 
 and your playing.
  
  Because there are two ways to play, I'll seperate this a little.
  
  PvE: The Role Playing mode on Guild wars is very fun. You follow a story for ahwile and you 
 level up and stuff. Like your basic roleplaying game. Your level cap is 20, but its ok because 
 after a few levels it takes longer to level. Guild Wars is uniqe becasue when your in the world 
 (except in cities and battle areas) you have your own copy of it. So no level 20's going around 
 and killing randomly the one monster you need for your level 10 quest. I respect Guild Wars for 
 that but it makes you feel a little isolated and lonely.
  
  PvP: Like I previously said, PvP is a major letdown. When you make a PvP cahracter he/shes already 
 level 20. He/She starts with some basic gear witch you, from the beggining, can change. As you 
 battle you earn Faction Points witch you use to unlock Weapons, Armor, and Spells for your PvP 
 characters (they apply to every one of your PvP characters) . However i've noticed the PvP side 
 is broken, and classes such as the Necromancer are extremly overpowered. And classes such as the 
 Warrior are extremly underpowered. Usually if your new you wont win many battles due to 90% of 
 the players already of the "33test of the l33t" gear. Also many unhonorable tactics such as kiting 
 (a spellcaster runs around casting spells at its melee follower and due to the running the meleer 
 cannot do damage to his/her foe) go on. Basically, dont buy this game for its PvP.
  
  So thats Guild Wars for you. It has some sweet graphics as well as a great story mode, however 
 the other PvP part of the game is extremly broken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrenthsSlayer
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Most people when asked what an MMO is, they simply respond World of Warcraft. But if you asked 
 me I would respond Guild Wars. Guild Wars is the kind of MMO that kicks a** while still letting 
 you get back to work or wherever you go. For those of you who read my Mario Kart Wii review you'll 
 see pretty much the same format as before in this one - first multiplayer, then campaign, then 
 characters (however for some reviews I will not include this category, as for some you play as 
 one person) , and ending with a conclusion.
  
  1. Multiplayer
  
  Typically from the get-go you can expect Guild Wars to be good in multiplayer (hint: MMO) . However 
 it's much better than simply "good," more, amazing. There are several modes to play in. First there's 
 Random Arenas. Basically you are put into a random team battle against another team of humans. 
 Then there's Team Arenas. No explaining needed there except that this time you choose your allies. 
 However, then it starts to change, with meddling in Campaign. There's Heroes Ascent, where you 
 are put against a team of 8 people, increasing in the people's hardcoreness for every win, ending 
 with a gift used in Single Player (miniature person, gold weapon, etc.) . Another one is Alliance 
 Battles - which are my kind of game! Teams of 12 each from different factions (Luxon or Kurzick) 
 that battle against each other to see who can capture and maintain the most shrines/outposts throughout 
 the battle. However you need Guild Wars Factions and a guild to do this (I believe) . Lastly there 
 are Guild vs. Guild battles, the heart of Guild Wars multiplayer. While I don't partake in these 
 (I'm not that kind of player) I hear that the rewards are fantastic and the battles and fun is 
 tons so if you have a good guild try it on for once. But even if you don't have a good guild, it's 
 OK! The Xunlai Tournament House in the game gives rewards to player who guess the results of Guild 
 vs. Guild tournaments correctly! Basically it's free gambling - nothing to lose and fun. 
  
  2. Campaign
  
  I'm not going to spend so much time on the campaign because there's both 
 too much to praise about it and the different games have different stories. You take control of 
 a character you create (for more skip to Characters) who has to go through a series of missions. 
 In the end you save the day, blah, blah, blah. Luckily for these missions, if you can't find a 
 partner, you can use NPC's to help. This function, while not always leading you to victory, makes 
 the game more manageable due to the fact that you don't have to wait hours just to get a team.
 
  
  3. Characters
  
  The character function in Guild Wars is basically like in WoW - minus the races. You get to fully 
 customize a man/woman to take on the world in the game. You can choose between many customizable 
 features, including hair color and design, skin color, face shape, and color of your starting armor. 
 You can choose between one of 10 professions (counting extras in added campaigns) , Warrior, Ranger, 
 Mesmer, Monk, Necromancer, Elementalist, Ritualist (Factions exclusive) , Assassin (Factions Exclusive) , 
 Dervish (Nightfall exclusive) , or Paragon (Nightfall exclusive) .
  
  4. Conclusion
  
  Guild Wars is definitely an under appreciated gem in my opinion. While other are wasting their 
 lives on World of Warcraft (no offense WoW fans) paying $15 per month, there's Guild Wars players 
 WITH a life that don't have to pay a monthly fee! If you have a computer and are not a person who 
 gives up a game after one death, get this game, because there probably won't be much else like 
 it in these years to come. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: peterjun7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  at first all i can say was, this game is great love the graphics PVP is good i even reach up to 
 rank 9 which is i love showing off my tiger emote. And later the game disappointed me. Because 
 you find your way to make money in the game by farming bosses or killing mobs. And later the next 
 day the build you are using got nerf. I mean why? they dont want us to make money in the game? 
 they same thing over and over again. If you find another area or boss to kill for the unique/green 
 item again the next day its nerf. And they keep fixing some of the skills so annoying. I left guildwars 
 with no tears honestly i don't even wanna look back. oppsssss i need to write at least 800 characters 
 to post my review. hmmm Ok if you wanna try to play this game better find another F2P game out 
 there which is better than guidwars. And they let you enjoy your builds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keycodewanted
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  ok heres the first thing i have to say its FREE. Its not like world of warcraft but its better i 
 say. ok heres the lay down ok you make your charcter like every other mmo but you chose between 
 pvp (player v player) or role playing charcter. the campaign is great but i must admit its pritty 
 fustrating if you cant do a mission vut you can team up with people in towns and do quests there 
 are 6 charcter classes (warrior ranger monk necromancer elementalist mesmer) and there are different 
 skills for each of them. ok now lets go on to the map its huge and for a explorer its great there 
 many enemies and bosses and quests. quests give you xp (experince points) and thats for your level. the 
 highest level is 20 and when you get there its a great achivement so people buy this game and message 
 me so i can give you my name and see you on guild wars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owen_2
Rating: 7
Date: May 10, 2008 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Guildwars is a game that promises fun for the casual as well for the hard core player. I like to 
 take a look at the RPG side of things and not the MMORPG side of this. Simply said, having run 
 out of RPG's to play I was wondering if GW offered enough to be an alternative to let's say Oblivion.
 
  
  I will not beat about the bush: guildwars is no replacement for Oblivion. Granted Guildwars has 
 some strong things going for it like good graphics and a reasonable story-line, but in practice 
 the first offers not enough and the latter is tainted by a set of problems.
  
  Good RPGs offers a good story-line that is well supported by music, dialog and background. Not 
 least important are the set of characters combined with a wealth of equipment to collect . 
  Guildwars offers shadows of these. The main story-line is drowned by an avalanche of unconnected 
 quests which bore after a while because almost all of them force you to travel through the same 
 monster invested areas over and over again. Even worse is that these monsters keep on attacking, 
 even if you to strong, and keep on being respawned, which means that after you have worked through 
 map a for quest 1, you are faced with a completely respawned map a for quest 2. And after having 
 done quest 3 in the same map a you are truly bored to find out that quest 4 is going to take you 
 again through map a.
  In addition the storyline is never dramatised well. At some moments in the game you have a cut-scene, 
 but that is about all there is that comes close to gripping drama. Invain you will look for a main 
 bad guy like Jon Irenicus from BG or someone else who looks more then being a dummy set along the 
 road to provide the player with subquests.
  And here we touch upon the main problem of GW. It just feels like a dead world. Except maybe for 
 the monsters and some small area's in later editions the ai controlled beings in this game general 
 have no more presence than a roadsign, post or market-stall. 
  
  While games like Baldur's Gate offer a wealth of equipment and spells, Guildwars offers only rudimentary 
 sets of equipment. There are two sets of armor design for each class so you actually find your 
 character looks the same much of the game. Weapons you can buy, but buying is superfluous because 
 the very small set weapons that are sold by merchants (usually one for each class (with some more 
 for each element for the elementalist class) are usually weaker then those dropped by monsters. 
 Monster droppings are very random, which means that it takes a lot of monsters to get the improved 
 weapon for your class. 
  
  While Baldur's Gate offers a lot of options to use tactics Guildwars does not. Basically when the 
 fight is on your ai companions run of in all directions without any option to control them beyond 
 one or two basic commands. 
  
  In addition while there are supposed to be no less then six classes in the basic game in reality 
 there are only four. A fighter class, a ranger class, a healer class and three magic user classes. 
 In fact if you take the sources of power as a guideline there are only two: fighter classes based 
 on adrenaline and magic user classes (including ranger) based on magic points. 
  Guildwars suggest to have a wealth of skills, but in practice you are only allowed to use eight 
 at a time and much of the skills are useless or do the same. In practice most of the elementalists 
 use a base set of fire skills, while earth, air and water spells are neglected because for all 
 round purposes firespells are best.
  
  Guildwars did not spent much effort on the non-fighting experiences. Trading is almost unsupported 
 in te game. The player is left to shouting his sale or purchase intention. Even a simple bulletin 
 board would have been an improvement. Crafting skills do not exist. Earning money by making music, 
 dancing or performing or any other way than killing and selling is impossible.
  
  Guildwars is a good looking system that needs the player community to provide content as guildwars 
 has nothing more to offer then some basic roleplay options. There is a story in there, but it is 
 drowned by bland story-telling and unconnected sub-quests. If you are therefore looking to supplement 
 your RPG needs with Guildwars you are better advised to redo oblivion or neverwinter nights. Guildwars 
 offers a shallow experience at best.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rakibrox
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 9:32 am PT
Review:  i just cant stop playing gw it is the funnest game ever. i am a freak about that game. i am lvl 
 50 and im only 12. mad freaken addicting. ima buy my big bro this game so he can play with me on 
 his computer. WOW is better compared to this. the truth i dont give a fck about graphics its all 
 about fun. guild wars is for me. my name is calmekilr if you wanna add me. i play all the time. 
 i have a friend who i always play games with. his mom wont let him buy it cause of the fantasy 
 violence. every game there is i play with him and if i dont i get bored and i quit and find another 
 game. but this game i dont give a fck about him i can play this whenever i want. people that say 
 this game sucks screw you. get guild wars today and add me. i just started 2 weeks ago so i am 
 still a lvl 20 freak that doesnt know about this game that much. help me out sometimes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hello_Kitty_Man
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 30, 2008 5:19 pm PT
Review:  I got Guild Wars after I had owned World of Warcraft for about a year or so. I figured that Guild 
 Wars (Being only $50 and then no monthly fees) was worth testing out. Guild Wars was bland. Thats 
 the best way to describe it. It does nothing new save for maybe the PvP witch i was annoyed that 
 requires being lvl 20 to play (you can go sooner but there is no point because you'll get struck 
 down the minute you stick your neck out of the respawn point) The instant travel system made almost 
 all the environments totally pointless to add in seeing as you can just jump around to all the 
 cities in the game and when you did have to go out into the wild you only have to walk maybe 5 
 steps to your destination from the nearest city. Also I came into Guild Wars expecting an MMORPG 
 experience like i had in WoW. Instead I found GW was more of an online role playing game with very 
 few elements to base either one off of. The online only makes itself obvious when you're in PvP 
 obviously because there are other players you're interacting with and slaughtering (or being slaughtered 
 by) While playing i heard many people calling for groups but for me i was able to do all the missions 
 with henchmen up to level 20 easily.
  
  The role playing features are pretty much based off of a point system which only makes the attribute 
 affective if you put half of the points you make throughout the entire game into them. Leveling 
 up doesn't change much (of course there is the difference between 1 and 20) but pretty much the 
 whole affectiveness of your character is based on that attribute system i just described earlier. 
 Just about anything you pick will get you through the missions that make up the single player (which 
 might I add never allows you to solo through missions, you are always faced with be in a group 
 or suffer a horrible death via giant axe to the face) 
  
  In PvP all the classes and attributes and mixes and lions tigers and bears ("OH MY") all seem to 
 mesh together. But not in the good way. You'll have teams making up tactics like elementalists 
 cast wards, rangers make traps, warriors soak up the damage. But when two teams face off it just 
 seems like a mad scramble!
  Also when you target an enemy for attacking you auto follow and auto attack them, you cant move 
 so you're standing there exchanging blows until one dies or a monk comes along and makes the enemy 
 invincible and you get PWN'd.
  
  I really don't like Guild Wars. I suppose it would be better if it came out a while ago before 
 WoW but it didn't so..... cry.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BittyBitBits
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying I have played many MMOs since i was turned on to them by my friend. 
 Vanguard, WoW, Pirates of the Burning Sea, Lotro, and GUILD WARS! Guild Wars was my first MMO, 
 and i still firmly believe it is the best. It is the only game that i can play for 2 years and 
 still love! The PVE is wonderful, it's a lot more fast twitch than say WOW... especially if you 
 are the monk. Also, the limit of only 8 skills really makes you think about what you are going 
 to bring. The world is beautiful, and the "add-ons" just enrich your experience. In terms of story 
 and lore, GW is one of the best. The instance system allows for an immersive and personal story 
 that other open world MMOs do not. Obviously you don't have to follow the story to get a great 
 experience, as most places can be accessed by simply adventuring there, but you'd be a fool not 
 to. Finally, PVP is a very unique system. As mentioned before this game is very fast paced, even 
 more so in PVP. In order to suceed in pvp it is neccesary that all of the players attack their 
 target at the same time, often referred to as a "spike." If done correctly the monk literally has 
 2 seconds to heal the target or he's dead. This intense system make Guild v Guild very competative 
 and fun IF you're good at it. One of its downsides is the pvp has an extremely steep learning curve 
 and tight nit group so introduction to it may be difficult for new players. Also, as people have 
 learned the game it would seem only a couple different skill sets are used for each class. This 
 creates gvgs that are fun, but lack originality. The same can be said about PVE, as most high level 
 place require X type of elementalist, or Y type of monk. There are also truly amazing festivals 
 with special in game items. For example, at christmas time all the major cities are made snowy, 
 with special quests and christmas/winter decorations all over. At halloween the cities are set 
 up like... halloween! Even for the chinese new year they have a festival in the "Factions" version 
 of guildwars, That however is another game. The community is unrivaled by any game and is probably 
 my favorite part. So in conclusion i HIGHLY recommend this game, while the pvp system is a bit 
 steep to comprehend, i think you will find much to do in the world of Tyria. Oh did i mention it's 
 not pay to play?
  
  
  PS-Get the other versions for the ultimate experience! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kigdomkyle
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - 9.5/10
  Graphics - 9/10
  Sound - 8.5/10
  Exploration - 10/10
  PVP - 10/10
  Story - 9/10
  Quests - 9.5/10
  Missions - 10/10
  Classes - 10/10
  Character Creation - 
 10/10
  Skills - 10/10
  Replayability - 10/10
  
  
  Gameplay (9.5/10) - This game is extremely fun to play. Unlike most online games, Guild Wars is 
 not all about leveling up (which in my opinion gets very boring after a while) but actually has 
 a level cap of 20, meaning thats the highest level you can become. Some people may think this is 
 a downside, but actually, I think it makes it more fun. Getting to level 20 doesn't mean, "Ok, 
 I got to the highest level with this character, I'm gonna make another." In fact, it's the total 
 opposite. Getting to level 20 is where you start to experience the true fun. You can PvP, do harder 
 missions, harder quests, get cool armor and weapons, and much, much more. Try the game and you 
 will understand.
  
  Graphics (9/10) - The graphics in this game are great. The only downside is the skills. Some of 
 the skills aren't that flashy and cool looking when you use them. Some of them are. For example, 
 warriors attacks mostly look like a normal strike with your weapon. But, if you use an assassin 
 (from factions) some skills look great. With one skill (Blades of Steel) , you jump off the enemy 
 for a mid-air strike. You have to see it to know what I mean.
  
  Sound (8.5/10) - Pretty good sound. Nothing too special here.
  
  Exploration (10/10) - Exploration 
 is great. You have a huge world to explore with many towns and regions. As you explore further, 
 you uncover more of your map. Definately not the kind of game where you stay in what looks like 
 the same place the whole time.
  
  PvP [Player vs. Player] (10/10) - Great! There are many types of PvP in Guild Wars. Guild Battles 
 (name descriibes it) , alliance Battles [Factions only] ( Big fights with special command posts and 
 shrines that can be captured) , Heroes Ascent and Hall of Heroes (never actually unlocked it yet 
 but I think it's 8 vs. 8 with good rewards for winning) , Random Arenas (Randomly selects your team 
 of 4 players) , and Team Arenas (choose your team of 4) . Definetely not something to overlook.
 
  
  Story (9/10) - Each campain has it's own story. That's where primary quests and missions come in. 
 I'm not going to say much because I don't want to spoil it. =)
  
  Quests (9.5/10) - There are many quests ranging from easy to hard, some with great rewards. The 
 quests aren't just like, "Kill 50 imps," or something, they usualy are much more interesting.
 
  
  Missions (10/10) - There are many missions that tell the story of each campain of Guild Wars. These 
 missions are fun, repeatable, and [In Prophecies] have bonus tasks and [In Factions and Nightfall] 
 3 ranks depending on how fast you completed the mission or some other goal. Some missions are actually 
 pretty challenging, and may take a good team to beat.
  
  Classes (10/10) - There are a total of 10 classes in Guild Wars, Warriors ( I hope you know what 
 these are) [specialize in swords, axes, and hammers] , Rangers (use bows, can have a pet, and set 
 traps) , Elementist (use fire, water, air, and earth magic) , Mesmer (VERY different and challenging 
 for begginers, turn their oppenents attacks again them) , Monk (healing, smiting and protection) , 
 Necromancer (use blood magic, death magic, and curses) , Assassins [Factions only] (use daggers, 
 shadow arts, and deadly arts) {my personel favorite} , Ritualist [Factions only] (summon spirits, 
 heal, channeling magic, and much more) , Paragon [Nightfall only] (throws spears) , Dervish [Nightfall 
 only] (use scyths) . Every class is unique in their own way. You can also have a second class, and 
 have access to most of their skills.
  
  Character Creation (10/10) - Customise your face, hair, skin color, height, and beggining armor. 
 Lots of choices.
  
  Skills (10/10) - LOTS of skills. Hundreds in fact. All unique. Actually this is one of the main 
 parts of Guild Wars. You can only have 8 skills equip at a time, one of them can be elite (a skill 
 thats better than others) . This is called a build. The quality of your build will determine how 
 good your character is. You can also change your attributes in towns.
  
  Replayability (10/10) - If you get bored of a character, simply make another one with a different 
 class. experience everything over again. Also, you unlock hard mode from beating a campain. This 
 actually is hard. You can vanquish areas, killing all the monsters in that place (they are harder) 
 or redo missions on hard mode for more of a challenge. Very fun indeed.
  
  Well this concludes my review. I hope this was helpfull. Thank you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bran91095
Rating: 2.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a total letdown, and was not worth the 3 hours I played. The grind is terrible, and 
 only a few people can be on a battle map with you. This game is like every other game, grind, and 
 kill, grind and kill.
  
  This game, in my honest opinion isn't worth the $30 you will pay for it, because lag will take 
 15 minutes to take 1 step, and the amount of time you spend doing the ridiculous quests won't be 
 funny.
  
  I payed the original $50 fee, back when there weren't many players, and recently tried to play 
 again. There was so much lag, it took me an hour to load a beginning screen of the game.
  
  I don't feel that this game is worth what you spend, if anyone buys, don't let yourself lose all 
 the money you spent- take it to your nearest Gamestop and trade it in as fast as possible. DO NOT 
 PLAY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: penguinparadise
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 12:38 am PT
Review:  Some people I know say they wouldn't play this game because you can only go up to level 20 or it 
 just doesn't look that fun. When I say this people the see that this is more than the sum of it's 
 parts. Yes the leveling is at a low end but in this one and mostly and this one only out of the 
 others it takes awhile to get to level 20 but not really slow. It has a very good story for a MMO. 
 The Graphics are also very nice but to see them you have to have a good computer. After awhile 
 when you finish all of it's quest witch there are a lot of them or after a awhile you have played 
 it get very boring. So if it doesn't look to good to you I am not saying you should not play it 
 but if you want a good MMO or just a good game in general well check this one out. Overall this 
 is a very good MMO than other like Maple Story and you will have a great time playing for awhile. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: V-Dunstan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 3:49 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is an instanced MMORPG with outstanding graphics with a challenging and enjoyable game 
 experience not to mention the long lasting appeal. Just to Kick off, Guild Wars is free and as 
 such is satisfying for not only hardcore gamers, but the casual gamer can also enjoy the game at 
 a moderate pace. It offers a lengthy campaign with an imaginative storyline, and although sometimes 
 confusing is still enjoyable. It has clean, pristine graphics even by todays standards. The best 
 part about this game in my opinion is that it is heavily based on skill and features minor advantages 
 gained by equipment. a minor drawback that most WoW players will identify is that, while lasting 
 for some players the best part of 100 hours, is that it doesn't have many achievements outside 
 of the campaign and for those who do get this phenomenal time out of it, it will be through PvP 
 and not say, getting your person the best equipment and getting them to the best level to learn 
 all the best skills and aside from all this, it is'nt really a world. One thing I find that is 
 better than World of Warcraft is the general quest structure. I find in Guild Wars that most quests 
 have a detailed short or long story and arent just about collecting 20 spiders eggs. So there it 
 is. This is a game for a broad audience who enjoy competitive or leisurely gameplay and for those 
 who want a break from a subscribed game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redt_man
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  Ok I just puchased this game about two weeks ago and it is AWESOME! I've never played this game 
 before at all and I just got sucked right into it. The crazy part of it all is that I only purchased 
 Profs. and the game is awesome from the start! I mean this game is nearly three years old and the 
 graphics knida sorta astound me for a MMO game. The people in this game are so friendly too! I'm 
 only a level seven and I honestly had no idea what I was doing so I asked for help with what I 
 was to do (I wasnt begging for money or armor or money or anything) and three people immediatly 
 started giving me tips on what to do and after I pretty much got the gist of everything this girl 
 ( Bite Me Hard [lol] ) gave me 1k and a bow and hides and clothes to make my own armor and everything!!!.... I 
 had no idea what she was trying to do and when I was done doing what she told me all this stuff 
 appeared in my inventory! I was astonished!!! lol ya I know I'm a noob but this stuff really helped 
 out alot! I havent been killed since! I mean wow this game really rocks and everyones so helpful 
 and frienldy (unlike WoW everyone hates eachother unless your personally known or lv 70) .... well 
 ill sign off now... if ne1 wants to chat or nething in game or party up my name is Ra Zir... latr 
 guys (and gals) thanks Bite Me Hard!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonfury2008
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is an awesome MMORPG. Imersive story, adicting and fast paced battle arena's, and a large 
 scale world. Though it may not be as good as WoW it's definitely cheaper (considering you get free 
 online play.) The game is also highly adictive, but don't worry, it will warn you when you've been 
 playing for to long and suggest that you get off. You don't have to listen though, of course, if 
 you are a hard core gamer this game wil stay fun for a long time. There is always some quest to 
 do, save a damsel in distress, overthrow a group of angry, ugly, snarling monsters, to even normal 
 chores (which are made more difficult with stil more ugly snarling monsters.) If you are a fan 
 of RPG's and MMORPG's you can not go wrong buying this game. In fact, the only way you can go wrong 
 buying this game is if you absolutely hate RPG's, MMORPG's, and sword wielding magic slinging games 
 in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErkiB
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game. just plain and simple this game is probably one of the best if not the best MMORPG 
 in the world today. And this game is definetly better that wannabe WOW. Guild Wars is one of my favorites 
 in the world and there is a big reason for it. this game is addicitve. The first minutes you play 
 you cant stop it slowly pulls you in. quests are also amazing with beatiful cut scenes. Towns have 
 been done perfectly and the World is just big for many months of exciting gameplay.
  
  Ratings:
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  World: 10/10
  Weps/armor: 9.5/10
  quests/missions: 10/10
 
  guild system: 9.5/10
  Char Creation: 9/10
  Monsters: 9/10
  Events:10/10
  Gameplay:9/10
  sound:9/10
  
  These are my ratings on the game... this game is absoloutly supperb 
 easily one of the best games out there and easily bestly done.... play it and you will be playing 
 it for a long time to come and its a active game with almost no lag at all. so just play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BangsLiekWhoa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Many people seem to criticism Guild Wars simply for the fact that it does not require a monthly 
 subscription fee. They feel that without the standard MMO fee the programmers can't possibly provide 
 a high quality game. This is, in fact, far from the truth.
  
  The level cap is 20 and has been so for the duration of the game. But gaining tons of levels is 
 not the only way to gain new skills in this game. Instead once players reach level 20 they can 
 continue to gain new skills from any other class available in the game. It is actually quite nice 
 to be able to change your secondary class any time you are in town so that you can tailor your 
 character's skills to whatever situation you plan on taking your character into. While you are 
 only able to carry 8 skills with you at any given time it does become a test of your ability to 
 combine them to make a powerful and useful build.
  
  Guild Wars has introduced several expansions at regular intervals to keep the game exciting by 
 adding new content fairly often. It also provides something not available in other MMORPGs -- henchmen 
 and heroes. These are NPCs that you can take adventuring with you when you are not able to find 
 a full party or any party at all. They also are handy when you keep getting groups full of incompetent 
 n00bs which, face it, we all run into from time to time.
  
  Alltogether Guild Wars is a great game and is much better than many people are willing to believe. 
 Give it a try and you will realize that it really is worth your time. I mean, there are currently 
 5 million playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: buttface1
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 29, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing this game for over 2 years. Wow...
  Personally, I have NEVER played an MMO that long, WoW.. like 6 months, SW: G's even less then that.
 
  First off, this game moves far away from your basic MMO formula with all the annoying enemy pop 
 ups, bland graphics, no story, and pvp with no real skill behind the player.
  You come for the story, you STAY for the pvp.
  Every now and then you'll hear someone complaining 
 about the level cap only being level 20. This has got to be one of the THE BEST features of the 
 game. BALANCE! 
  For instance, how many of you can honestly say all of those other MMO's are as balanced as this? 
 This game isn't about grinding until your 90 and in your death bed, it's about actual skill. About 
 how you use the skills on your bar, how you approach an enemy, and how to use your different skills 
 for different scenarios.
  For instance, the fact that the lvl cap is 20 and easy to obtain makes it so a lvl 70 isn't fighting 
 a lvl 90 in pvp or some crap like that. 
  It isn't about gaining the BEST armor, the best armor can by obtained easily. But if you wanna 
 fork out the money and show off a bit you can get..."Shinier" armor and weapon skins. 
  Like I said, very balanced. In Guild Versus Guild you can always expect the other team to have 
 the max armor and max weapon stats. There is no ULTIMATE class. Every class has a purpose and each 
 is as strong as the other. 
  Also, the whole being able to have a secondary class (Though you won't be able to access that class's 
 primary attribute) also makes things VERY interesting. 
  Though I wouldn't say the other expansion are "good" (More of the less the stories of NF and Factions) 
 But the new additions of skills and classes adds alot of new content to the game. 
  The world is beautiful and Anet has some really talented artist. 
  I can't mention enough just 
 how well balanced the game is. Though in my belief it brings a whole new level to complication 
 in pvp for noobies. Because you really have to understand what your skills do and what you do as 
 your class. 
  I'm trying to think of one bad thing... about the first GW....
  NOTHING. HAHA! 
  Great game, best pvp in MMO so far. (Full of Tournies for top guilds to win 
 real cash, very fun stuff) . 
  I would say the AI was bad but since the updates from the original release the game is definantly 
 challenging at points. Another cool feature is that once you get kindo higher up in the PvE you'll 
 notice different class monsters sticking in groups, just like your own, they'll have a monk/ranger/warrior/ 
 ect. Instead of a bunch of the same monsters popping up. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dmbowers98
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2008 6:28 pm PT
Review:  When you think of PVP combat in an online RPG, chances are, images of the most degrading forms 
 of griefing come to mind: being teased, chased, ganked, and subsequently corpse-camped by a group 
 of pre-teens with too much time on their hands, and the best equipment farmed gold can buy. Save 
 for the few games built exclusively around PvP combat, the potential for compelling, competitive 
 content is largely squandered on MMOs. So it's not a moment too soon that Guild Wars comes upon 
 us. 
  
  Guild Wars is all about PvP in a fair, sporting sense: groups of skilled players battling it out 
 in organized, controlled events, and those with the strongest strategies and most cohesive teams 
 prevail. It's like an RPG version of Counter-Strike. Surprisingly, the non-PvP elements are just 
 as engaging. In order to build your character into a competitive powerhouse, you have to go through 
 tons of compelling, cooperative content. Not only does doing so reward you with the actual, tangible 
 character abilities that you'll need to compete, but it'll also trains you to work within the context 
 of a tight, organized group. Many of the challenges that Guild Wars puts forth are pretty demanding, 
 so if your groups don't work as cohesive units, you won't see very much success. 
  
  Even more interesting, Guild Wars has no monthly fees, further separating it from the other MMO 
 products on the market today. Instead, the development team hopes to release an expansion pack 
 every six months or so. 
  
  In the end, Guild Wars fires on all cylinders, with an impeccable technical implementation, gorgeous 
 graphics, and a daunting multitude of things to do in both cooperative and competitive play. This 
 is not a title for everyone, but it's definitely a breath of fresh air. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 8732_YoungJeezy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 6:59 am PT
Review:  I been playing this game since it game out and im still playing it to this day. I did take a lot 
 of breaks from this game though, playing on XBL and just other things. But anyways, if your interested 
 into MMO games or wanna try one, GET GUILD WARS. Its really really fun, there's a lot to do and 
 or course NO MONTHLY PAYMENTS TO PLAY THIS GAME. Of course if your a WoW fan boy, your probably 
 not going to like this game, but in my honest opinion, its all taste and what you prefer. If you 
 like paying $15 a month, spending all day to level, like cartoon graphics, and get called a noob, 
 stop reading this review and go play WoW. But, if you like getting to the action right away and 
 not spending so much time leveling up, and get called a noob, ( not to mention good graphics) get 
 Guild Wars. To me, this game is a really unique MMO. First of all, it has amazing graphics, and 
 it has a pretty good story line. There's also like 3 expansions to go with this game as well if 
 you get bored. The thing about guild wars is the cap for the level is 20, so you have more time 
 actually playing the game instead of leveling up. The PvP is really amazing too. If you want to 
 go right into the PvP action, all you do is make a PvP ready character which already level 20, 
 and ready to go. Or you can use the PvE character and show off your stuff. All in all, its a fantastic 
 game and worth getting, its worth the money because this game will keep you playing for a long 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miradwyn
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  I couldn't complete a quest as simple "as have a friend open the gate for you." A quest set up 
 to force you into a group, only problem is no one will take the 30 seconds necessary to step outside 
 town and click on the lever above the gate to open it for you. After repeated attempts to group 
 for this quest the only offers I ever received were "50g". No thanks, if this is the kind of cooperative 
 play I can expect then I'll pass.
  
  Dye to change the look of your gear is a hot very high priced commodity. I guess the importance 
 of that type of item says a lot about the people playing this game; pretentious posers there to 
 posture their l33t-ness over the n00bs, not explore, quest or create a mutually beneficial community.
 
  
  Being completely isolated outside of town made me feel like I may as well be playing an offline 
 game and since the community is so helpful and friendly you essentially are playing a single player 
 game. How I am supposed to know what spells to select before leaving town on a mission I don't 
 know. Go out, fight dozens of monsters until I die because I didn't have the correct spells then 
 go back to town and start over with the "correct" ones?
  
  Also the invisible walls mentioned repeatedly by others is very annoying. Don't you dare try to 
 step over that rock! The preassigned path demands you go around it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CornishRocker
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  I love this game, it is probably my most played game, including the other two campaigns and the 
 expansion. The game offers many addictive and fun playing areas, including PvP and a Role Playing 
 storyline. The game captivated me from the first few hours of play and still offers so much more.
 
  I suppose the storyline does get off to a slow-ish start, and my low spec laptop doesn't run the 
 game to it's full potential, but once you reach the point where you have to evacuate your homeland, 
 things start hotting up.
  My favourite aspect of Guild Wars is the engaging storyline of PvE, with the acquisition of various 
 titles, minipets and armour as you progress through the game. The content can get a little tiresome 
 on occasion, if you find yourself stuck at a certain point in the game, but there is always another 
 task to distract you before returning to the previous predicament.
  I find Guild Wars quite a challenge, which not many games I play seem to offer, and I like this 
 change of difficulty, yet it is still playable.
  One thing to watch out for in Guild Wars is it's potential to get you hooked on it, with many hours 
 disappearing away, when I should have been doing coursework. 
  All in all, Guild Wars is a brilliant game that is well worth playing, considering it has no monthly 
 fees. I keenly await the sequel to this outstanding game, Guild Wars 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lebron123
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a sensational game and i advice all people who like MMOrpgs to play it! its my personal 
 favorite! The Game itself has lots of diffrent campaigns so once you finish 1, you will have another. 
 It also has a variety of Classes, henchmen and heroes. So you never feel alone. you can also form 
 guilds, and teams. It's landscapes and storys and incredible, and I don't think I will ever bore 
 of it. i give it a 10-10. Other people may not enjoy certain aspects of the game, as do i. For 
 Example i dislike the fact that you need a certain title, to get armors, and the money and materials 
 for it. And i also dont like how some areas and groups and extremely impossible even for a full 
 group of lvl 20s. So basically this game has its ups and downs, but overall i find that it is an 
 extremely good game. If you really think about it, it's good aspects out number it's bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feibie
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  ok basically for anyone that loves just pvping all day in an MMO guildwars is for you.
  
  if you like RPG guildwars is also for you because although it's an MMO you don't have to play with 
 other players cause well... you've got these bots/ais that are called henchmen and they can help 
 you through the game.
  
  i like this game but when the other campaigns came out it sorta failed... 
  the new campaigns 
 just felt the same even though they had new stuff i dunnoes, i just think they can't compare to 
 the original - prophecies
  
  like nightfall introduced heroes - they're like henchment but you can customize their skills, attributes, 
 equipment and have better control of them but you could only have 3 at a time which was... a bit 
 lame...
  
  factions had kurzick and luxon alliance battles and new arenas but tbh... that's all it really 
 was, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KarelTheSword
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2008 12:13 pm PT
Review:  You may think that just because the level cap is 20, you will run out of entertainment fast. Once 
 you reach level 20 the fun just begins in this completely immersive online multiplayer masterpiece. 
 The graphics in Guild Wars are crisp and detailed, and the player animations are refreshingly realistic. 
 The graphics are much less cartoonish then WoW and this is just one of the elements that makes 
 it rise above the rest. Unlike the tedious leveling, in which you do boring repetitive quests, 
 GW makes it easy to reach maximum level. This is what makes the competition so much more fierce 
 and exciting. Each player can choose up to 7 skills at a time, which in all, is called a build. 
 Using the 700+ profession specific skills there is virtually endless combinations to annihilate 
 the competition. Builds in a team can be exchanged in outposts and changed to match the competition. 
 Now lets talk about the professions in Guild Wars. In the original there are 5 "Core" professions. 
 These are Warrior, Monk, Elementalist, Necromancer and Mesmer. Each profession is good at a certain 
 aspect and have different traits. Guild Wars: Factions and Guild Wars: Nightfall introduced two 
 new professions each, Assassin and Ritualist in Factions and Dervish and Paragon in Nightfall. 
 Between forming or joining a guild, battling other players in intense PvP combat or just cruising 
 around in PvE environments doing quests or just fighting enemies, Guild Wars seems to never get 
 old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thorn994
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is undoubtedly one of the best MMO's that have come out this year. With its stunning 
 graphics, awesome storyline, great music, pvp, and great price, this is a MMO that is worth playing. 
 What is so good about this game is that it has NO monthly fee. With big MMO's like Shadows of Angmar 
 and WoW you're spending 14-15 bucks a month. But with Guild Wars, all you need to do is install 
 it and start playing. The storyline is also great and if you don't like that, you can instantly 
 switch and make a lv. 20 pvp charecter that allows you to play alliance battles, guild battles, 
 and much more. The sequels are also very awesome. If you like Guild Wars, Factions and Nightfall 
 are also great games and are fun and addicting. The fact is, you dont even need Guild Wars to play 
 Factions or Nightfall. This is a game worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Icehearted
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  With the plethora of online role-playing games opening up these last few years it can be difficult 
 to find something you'd really want to commit yourself to playing and invest your precious gaming 
 time with. World of Warcraft for example, will eat your life and make you forget what sunlight 
 is, same I hear with EverQuest and Final Fantasy 11.
  
  This is where Guild Wars comes in. Unlike a lot of other games of this nature, Guild Wars requires 
 no protracted grinding to enjoy a rewarding game play experience or in game treasures like good 
 armor, weapons, and such. Rather than ask you to devote your life to this game, Guild Wars instead 
 offers you a simple to play, easy to master game style that I would call far more accessible to 
 everyone than other massively multi-player online games (MMORPGs) .
  
  The story begins before the story begins. I know, nonsense, but trust me you'll understand should 
 you give it a go. After you choose one of six possible classes (Warrior, Monk, Mesmer, Necromancer, 
 Illusionist, and Ranger) , each with their own unique and customizable looks and abilities, you 
 are given a main quest to decide on a secondary class. An example would be a player choosing to 
 be a Monk for their healing abilities, then choosing a Ranger as a secondary class so they may 
 capture and train animal companions to aid them. Other quests will also be offered from the beginning 
 from other NPCs (non-player characters) often with decent rewards and experience, but you may pick 
 and choose which to do and when to do them.
  
  The game world is beautiful and varied, from lush rolling hillsides to frozen craggy mountains, 
 deep caverns, a scorched wasteland, deserts, swamps, you name it. Cities and points of interest 
 are areas where players may gather to chat, trade, or form groups for quests. However, if you so 
 desire you may often but no always choose henchmen to help you in lieu of other players, henchmen 
 being computer controlled party members. All areas that are not outside of the aforementioned communities 
 are instances, which is where this game also sets itself apart from many others like it. In World 
 of Warcraft for example, if you leave a town to go on quests you will leave town and still never 
 quite be alone. Other players will come and go, parties may be made or broken, trade, chat, etc 
 can pretty much take place everywhere but in dungeons. In Guild wars, once you leave town you are 
 on your own or with whomever you joined up with in town. It can make a gigantic difference in the 
 way this game plays out, and can at times feel a little lonely, but the upside would be that you 
 are free to move at will and are not in constant competition for treasures, monsters to slay, and 
 you will find things a lot more serene.
  
  Unlike other MMORPGs, Guild Wars charges no fee to play. You buy the game, set up an account, and 
 play to your heart's content without ever having to spend another penny again. Another thing that 
 separates this game from others is the modular nature of character development. There are only 
 20 levels, which might sound small but is a considerably fairer and more balanced system than other 
 games, and with every level you are given skill points to spend on abilities such as magic or defense. 
 Should you wish to rearrange your abilities to suit any given situation, simply return to a safe 
 zone such as a town and move points around as you see fit. It's an extremely versatile system that 
 can add so much more depth for those who really love getting into the nuts and bolts.
  
  Overall this is a deep and enjoyable game that doesn't force you to strict commitment to really 
 be rewarded. It's free to play once you buy the game, and more importantly it's a lot of fun. It's 
 worth picking up by anyone who would like a trimmer, cleaner, and more balanced MMO experience. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sacred_Pie
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 31, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  This game is interesting, I decided to get it because one of my friends had got it and was going 
 on about it ike a drug addict, I'm glad it was free to play after buying it.
  
  I dont feel like going on a massive rant like i did for my WoW review so I'llkeep it simple.
 
  
  The Good: Interesting PvP (for its game play style) , Looks good, No two characters are the exact 
 same, Fairly open world, Good Story
  
  The Bad: You cat meet others unless your are in a city / outpost which are more like chat rooms 
 with vendors, Not many missions, Only one "Tank" class (This is only reviewing the FIRSt guild 
 wars so dont go saying "What about the Dervish from Nightfall?") , Henchman AI is realy poor. Every 
 one of the same class looks the same, max lv (20) in one day.
  
  The Meh (no strong feeing either way) : The graphics / animations were meh-ish (it is a word, it 
 the dictionary in my head)
  
  All together, Guild Wars is a good game if you'r bored one day and want o kill some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: washb28879
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  guild wars is very very good rpg to work with. well it's not a world of warcraft. but still it 
 is very excellent. the fact that there are no fees or any other money related things. it is very 
 good for people who don't have a lot of money or a credit card for that matter. the grapthics are 
 stunning and so is the gameplay. but sometimes it is very hard especally me to get some one willing 
 enough to join a party. there a so many things do to. this game will keep you occupied for a very 
 long time. kiss and hug your loved ones goodbye because you are going to gone for a long time. 
 i would definently recomend this for anybody who loves a good rpg. anyway Guild Wars has many things 
 and more to come if you have the game of the year edtion it comes packed with a lot of juice and 
 that's my review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blinkinfool
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Guild wars is very fun and enjoyable. If i had to pick over any computer game right now i would 
 pick guild wars. If you are a teen wanting to play World of Warcraft don't get it. I reccomend 
 getting Guild wars instead. It is not because I don't enjoy World of Warcraft it is just that Guild 
 Wars is so much more affordab; e. Besides buying the discs and maybe getting upgrades and expansions 
 that is all you havge to do. There is no monthly fee unlike World of Warcraft where it costs 15 
 dollars a monh.
  
  Besides less money it has great gameplay and view. The view is just like wow where you can move 
 it around a lot. Also the gameplay is amazing. It has great pvp (player versus player) ation where 
 you can split up into teams and battle. I would get this game no matter who you are. It is also 
 more suitable for youger players. Teens and adults can have a great time playing this game together. 
 
  
  The graphics for this game in my opinion are better than World of warcraft's. They are much alike 
 and both have their advantages but i prefer Guild Wars. The graphics are very well detailed and 
 layed out. I love thi game so much right now. Everyone should get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ippe
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 22, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  I fell in love right away with the nice and atmospheric graphics, sounds and music of this game. 
 I have also always loved the story and all the depth that this game has with skills and characters. 
 
  
  My love story with this game has also already lasted quite long (at least 2 years) and I can in 
 fact say that it is definitely the game that I have been regularly playing a lot longer than any 
 other game before and so far.
  
  The only mildly negative things I can find about this cool game are the facts that the voice acting 
 and the animations at some narrative scenes of the game are occasionally absolutely disgustingly 
 horrible quality. Mostly even these are at least ok and the bad scenes didn't manage to put down 
 the otherwise maginificent atmospehere for me.
  
  Also the game has maybe been lately built to be too easy for playing just by yourself with henchmen 
 or heroes, which has quite much decreased the social openness of the game society in general. Alas 
 it is much harder nowadays to find nice company for a sudden and occasional adventure if you don't 
 play with some friends that you know well already.
  
  Anyway, if you enjoy a good and massive strategic/RPG-adventure with beautifully artistic scenery 
 and vast possibilities and options with skills, spells and other abilities, then this game is definitely 
 something that you will enjoy. 
  
  And of course all this offered with a huge online society, and all this is without any online payments! 
 So grab it soon, if you somehow managed to avoid this masterpiece so far... All the versions of 
 the game are great in my opinion, but when I rank them it goes like this for me:
  
  1. Guild Wars (core version)
  2. Guild Wars Eye of the North 
  3. Guild Wars Nightfall (this 
 one has maybe the best story though)
  4. Guild Wars Factions (this is really great too, but just a bit shorter than the others and maybe 
 also missing something from the atmosphere)
  
  See you in the game guys! You will find me as Ippenator Suuri, Ippenator The Great, Lost In Mirrors, 
 Ippenator The Man, Ippe The Mighty, Pitch Black Widow and Ippe The Healer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: error404_
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 18, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Start it off, I have all campaign and played a good amount of hours.
  
  I liked the game mainly because I was amazed by the graphic,
  and it has a nice and solid storyline.
 
  
  However, the game got boring real quick after you beat the game.
  
  The principle of guildwar is "no grinding",
  but their "title" system goes against their own 
 principle,
  and the game concept is to make everything fair for both casual player and hardcore player.
  
 
  I understand their concept but you spend so much time in this game trying to become stronger, you 
 will end up in the same level as others who plays once a week.
  
  Instead of going against grinding they should make the 'grinding' part fun.
  
  This game also 
 lacks fun of raising a character because no matter how you play your character, you end up as the 
 same old level 20 with same old pattern of armor etc.
  
  PvP is mediocre because the only way you do good is to team play,
  you can never be that good 
 by yourself.
  So if you wanna own in PvP, you have to find ppl that takes PvP so serious,
  using Ventrillo and other communication program,
  pick a day and a time to team up and organize 
 team just to own some noobs.
  
  All these are way too tedious for me,
  I like games where you level hard by yourself,
  but at the end you feel the reward by owning 
 noobs.
  
  they thinkg "grinding" is stupid but without any relevant reward (like getting stronger for playing 
 more instead of some titles) this game gets old way too fast and run outta things to do.
  
  as an RPG this game also lacks the fun part of finding, or hunting for good items, because all 
 the items are equally strong and there's no such thing as godly item.
  
  good game for casual gamer who likes to just slay monsters
  3days a week, but for those who seeks 
 thrill and good times in PvP
  this is not the game.. IMO 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablo8514
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 14, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  the pvp is extremely gd as well as the story it's a game worth playing it can be boring if u go 
 at it solo without anyone to talk too but if u do it with a friend it's an amazing game 10/10 i 
 spent many hour's on it. it can get extremly difficult. the leveling up system is great the professions 
 choices are great personally i think everyone should play it. just as guild wars factions, guild 
 wars nightfall out of all i would say guild wars the first and guild wars nightfall have been the 
 best so far although i've had to stop playing them although there is guild wars eye of the north 
 out and another soon. thank\\\'s 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dustm17
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 12, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  After playing Guild Wars since the beginning of its debut, I figured I should write a review about 
 it. At the beginning I was addicted... for a while. I really enjoyed the lush environments and the 
 amazing art... which I still do. The battles were fairly fun and SOME of the missions were exciting. 
 This was the prophecies version, set in the world of Tyria. There was also the always fun experience 
 of getting loot. The loot in the beginning was easier to come by and this loot was cool. Cool weapons, 
 shields, etc. The skills were new and exciting. However, slowly over the life of the game, its 
 value went down. The loot began to get nerfed and it was harder to get good drops. The fanbase 
 went down and so less people were around to play the missions you had to get done. Also the new 
 mission of the developers, it seemed, was to focus everything on fighting and not so much looting. 
 The battles were great and all, but you couldn't create a good pve game out of it. My interest 
 in this game faltered, and I found myself taking monthly breaks from it. 
  
  In my opinion Guild Wars is a good casual game. If you need something to kill time, or just feel 
 like messing around on a semi-mmo game, play some guild wars. If you're looking for a more developed 
 universe online, with more people, better looting capabilities, and something just... more try a 
 different mmo.
  
  Nonetheless, there are still some great aspects to the game. The environments are breath-taking. 
 Guild Wars has some of my favorite art in it of any video game to date. In my personal opinion 
 that alone is enough to at least check out the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1427814179
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 6, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  I've had the opportunity to play all thee Guild Wars games from the get go, having started shortly 
 after Nightfall's release, and I must say that Guild Wars is one of a kind. 
  
  Guild Wars is one of those games that is very hard to describe, and sure enough, most reviews that 
 I've read make it sound like some kind of Diablo RPG, a hack and slash dungeon crawler of sorts. 
 It really couldn't be farther from that. Unlike dungeon crawler RPGs, The roleplaying elements 
 in Guild Wars are minimal. Sure you'll spend time customizing armor and stats to a degree, but 
 since the max level is so easy to obtain, most of the fun comes once level 20 is reached.
  
  Perhaps the most unique thing about Guild Wars is the fact that players must choose 8 skills 
 to use at any given time, from a combination of only 2 professions. Because there are so many skills 
 to choose from  hundreds for each of the 10 professions  8 skills will make any skill bar truly 
 unique from the next person's. Obviously some skills are designed to work well with each other, 
 so it is up to players to find the perfect combinations and execute them correctly.
  
  The entire game can be played cooperatively, and even competitively for certain areas. It can be 
 just as fun with computer henchmen as it is with a group of players, because the AI is exceptional. 
 The hero system in Nightfall gives even more options because the hero's skill bars are just as 
 customizable as the players.
  
  Although PvE tends to take up most of the time, PvP is quite deep as well in Guild Wars. Players 
 can join or create Guilds, from which they can participate in GvG battles, Alliance Battles, Hero 
 Battles, Random Arenas, Team Arenas, and Hero's Ascent. Doing well in these will give extremely 
 rewarding bonuses, as well as simple bragging rights.
  
  I have spent hundreds of hours playing this game, and there really isn't an end to it either, there 
 is so much to do even after beating the main quest  tons of challenge areas, elite armor sets, 
 elite skills, and the pleasure of taking all of the goodies earned in PvE to show off in PvP. This 
 is probably the most money efficient game out there as well, because it will not only give hundreds 
 of hours of satisfaction, but is only the price of the standard retail game. I recommend it fully.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jestepher
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 3:30 am PT
Review:  Where to start? Fine I'll get the few cons out of the way first. Basically the cons are shallow 
 crafting and lack of auction house. Yep. That's it. Some may even consider that a good thing :p 
 An auction house is severely needed though.
  
  Pros? Goodness I could go on for ever. Flawless PvE and PvP. Amazing AMAZING AMAZING graphics and 
 music. Decent voice acting, awesome character customization, fast-paced combat and awesome dual-classing.
 
  
  Oh and it's free to play online. Can't beat that. Really, this game is unbelievably well made and 
 is no wonder it has 4 million players. The only game I look forward to playing more is Guild Wars 
 2!!! :p
  
  Buy this game. Now. It was one of the most impressive gaming experiences of my life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dexodrill
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Guild wars was truly a well worked game. After Seeing WOW and the cartoon feel i found guild wars 
 a much better experience feeling more like a teen game and not a game to try and please all ages. 
 It offers Updates constantly to fix bugs and add things or just make a fun event start up. It does 
 not require money every month as WoW and i can safly say if it did it would not be such a hit. 
 After over 3000 hours tho i can say you must limit your self in play. I give it a 8.5 simply due 
 to the fact it can take wayyyyyyy to much time to do some of the things it has to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanvett
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  I ever joined a beta test of Guild Wars in march 2005. And I felt it was really novel and fun then. 
 I ever joined PVP then, too. It was really a big melee. I saw many warriors slashing each other 
 then. It's really fun. And healing signet was much better than now for using so it was weaken soon. 
 Later, I bought Guild Wars on its release date.
  
  The storyline and missions are great. Music and sound effects are good. The best feature is its 
 novel PVP mode. You can make a level one RPG character or a level 20 PVP one to start. PVP characters 
 have armors and weapons with some top basic attributes. And you can earn points for upgrading armors 
 through battles. To Diablo fans, It's a pity Guild Wars is not like Diablo 2. But Guild Wars actually 
 gave me lots of fun in 2005. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chad7414
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  I have played most of the major MMO's out there (WoW, EQ2, LOtRO, EVE) , but always find myself back 
 in the GuildWars universe. Guild Wars Prophecies, Factions, Nightfall, & Eye of the North, are 
 all amazing games individually, but together create a deep and immersive world without being overwelming. 
 The dev team are always creating new and exciting seasonal and holiday events that make the game 
 seem fresh. Sorry to see Guild Wars 1 come to an end, but looking forward to Guild Wars 2. I hope 
 they remember what made the original such a success (4 million sold) and dont stray too far from. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thessassin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a new type of game. Most are turned off from it because of a low level cap, and because 
 its solely combat based and there isnt really much to do outside of combat. The thing is all of 
 those are unnececary in Guild Wars, its a great game. The games level cap of 20 may seem low at 
 first but it sont seem that way when your playing. By the time you reach level 20 you will be far 
 into the story but not finished so you will have something to keep playing for. But it dosent end 
 there, long after you reach level 20 there is still tons of stuff to do. The game has an interesting 
 plot but the voice acting ranges from decent to bad. The game actually has a story and fools you 
 into believing your actually making a difference in Tyria even though millions of other players 
 have also done the same.
  
  Another reason people are turned off is the fact that you can only carry up to 8 skills at a time, 
 although usually youll be wishing for just 1 or 2 more slots it dosent feel bad when you get into 
 the game. In other games such as WoW you can basically have every skill on you at a time. this 
 may be appealing to some but the fact is that most will go unused and youll end up using the same 
 15 skills. 
  
  Guild Wars has some downsides but most of the complaints are just nitpicking. Being able to jump 
 dosent add to an rpg but it would be a nice touch. One thing im not too happy about myself is ever 
 scince the introduction of heroes to the game PUG's have been harder to come buy but they are still 
 alive and in most places the only way to do a mission scince the henchmen and hero AI isnt the 
 greatest.
  
  Guild Wars is a PvP oriented game and it relies on Teamwork, Skill and more things other than money. 
 Getting Max armour and a max weapon does not cost alot and players w/o money can beat players with 
 Tons of it based on their skill and the teamwork of his team.
  
  Guild Wars offers alot of content to newcomers of mmorpgs and veterans alike and is worth a try 
 so if you havent already run on over to tour nearest EB games and pick yourself up a copy of this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cocolite
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Guild wars is a fairly decent game. It has a well crafted storyline that is quite fun to play through, 
 but is also hard to get all the second objectives done. The graphics are excellent if you have 
 the settings cranked way up, and the sound is pretty good, even on my really old sound card. My 
 problem with the game, is the fact that you have to pay for the expansion to get the assassin class. 
 Assassin is my play style in all online games, so imagine my disappointment when I started playing 
 and noticed there was no speedy, stealthy character. Also, only getting 8 slots for skills with 
 well over 100 skills per class is pure torture. 
  All in all, this game is wonderful in most ways. Any game that can turn a stealthy, fast assassin 
 player into an elementalist, deserves score of at least 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ccooldudecool
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars ( known as Guild Wars Prophecies ) is a great mmorpg. Includes 6 professions: Warrior 
 who can tank and do alot of dmg, Ranger can shoot from far away, has a pet &amp; uses preperations 
 &amp; rituals. Monk heals, protects &amp; smites, probably the most needed proffesion of all.
 
  Mesmer causes health degeneration, interrupting &amp; can cast spells fast. Necromancer can steal 
 blood, create bone horrors ( aka zombies, dead things ) &amp; cause curses. &amp; a Elementalist 
 ( elle ) who has all 4 elements: Fire, Water, Earth , Air. Guild wars has great graphics and is 
 a game suitable for most ages ( For kids who can read ) Chat is optional such as checking the boxes 
 for: Local, Guild , Team, Trade , Alli, Emotions. YOU can either make a guild or join a guild &amp; 
 join an alliance. Without any upgrades you can make 4 characters.
  You either make a PvE ( Player Versus Enviroment ) or PvP ( Player Versus Player )
  The main 
 PvE storyline is the best twist and turns and missions with bonuses!
  Either way this game is a BLAST of fun and i highly recommend it to any people who are thinking 
 about buying this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KickstartYOSHI
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  You play WoW? Why!?! WoW is for nerds you could be playing your same brilliant gaming for no money!!
 
  
  Pick your favourite online game and compare it :
  &gt; NO FEES AT ALL!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  &gt; Six different character choices: - Warrior - Ranger - Elementalist - Necromancer - Monk / Healer 
 - Mesma
  &gt; Unlimited number of players per account
  &gt; Seeing and chating to other players &gt; Able to work CO-OP with other players and able to create 
 Guilds of a group of members.
  &gt; A huge world ( 2 districts for each of the 6 continents ) full of: - Quests - Possiblitys - 
 Enemys
  &gt; Player v. s player
  &gt; Guild v. s guild
  &gt;1000's of different: armors, weapons, and items
  
  AND A WHOLE LOT MORE..... TRUST ME!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikester009
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2007 4:37 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a very fun and well-made fantasy MMO RPG. One of the best features of the game is 
 the fact that it is free after you buy it; there are no online fees. This helps set Guild Wars 
 apart from other MMO RPGs such as World of Warcraft. I hate online fees and will never play a game 
 with them. Now, Guild Wars has many good things about it, but a few (in my opinion) bad things 
 about the game keep it from truly being one of the best MMO RPGs ever.
  Pros: Very well made skill based combat system. With the max level at 20, players must rely on 
 their unique skills and play style to beat their opponents. Players will not always win because 
 they have more exp or a higher just because they play a lot. The graphics are very nice. Each character 
 and armor set is pretty and unique. Special effects for each spell/skill is unique and fun to watch. 
 Overall, the combat is fun and exciting. Exploring the world is fun and rewarding. The concept 
 of death penalties is used well. There are Cons:
  In Guild Wars, you must start the game when you log on from the nearest city. A city is a point 
 on the map where you are with other human players where you can join up in a party, buy armor, 
 etc. Once you venture outside the city to do a quest, fight monsters, etc, the world is a private 
 world for you and your party. This means that you are not with everyone else in the game. You can 
 only do a quest with other people if they join you at a city and join your party. I did not like 
 this feature. I prefer having an open world full of people everywhere. This factor seemed to led 
 to me getting bored of the game after about 5 months. There is no extra leveling such as crafting, 
 alchemy, etc. Just combat leveling. Overall, Guild Wars has many good aspects to it. It was very 
 fun while I played it and its value goes up tremendously without online fees. This game is definitely 
 worth buying especially at the $30 price tag. Even if you get bored of it after a few months, it 
 will be well worth your time for 30 bucks. It is a fresh new look at the MMORPG and you may like 
 its unique features a lot more than I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is an awesome mmorpg that any one that likes those types of games should play. It combines 
 a great Diablo like game play that you could play for hours.
  
  You get to pick from six professions when you start like a warrior or an elementalist. each of 
 the professions is pretty cool but one thing that I have to complain about is there is only one 
 race that you can play, which are humans.
  
  The game is a big game that will last you for hours. The combat is great and not boring. Like in 
 WoW you do the same strike with a sword over and over again. In Guild Wars you character does a 
 few different strikes before he or she repeats it again, so it actually makes it look like the 
 person is in a battle.
  
  The graphics in Guild Wars look amazing, and better than most other mmorpgs. The characters look 
 really good and the environments look awesome.
  
  The sound sounds good and the music is pretty good. Some of the great sound affects are when some 
 one is swing their sword, sometimes you can hear it clang with some one else.
  
  The creatures in Guild wars are really cool and are some of the best monsters in RPGs.
  
  One 
 thing that is awesome about Guild Wars is that there is no monthly fee. You just need to buy the 
 game and then you can play it online with having to pay. Another cool thing about this game is 
 that it will run on dial up. I use to have dial up and I bought Guild Wars. It ran really good. 
 The only time where it ran slow is when you install the game and go into the game for the first 
 time and when you go toa new area. I have high speed Internet now and I do not see much of a difference 
 when the game is running.
  
  If you want a new mmorpg then you should play Guild Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: COMBATER202
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the best MMORPG or RPG people like to call it because it is F2P. But don't take 
 that as a bad comment. It is still as good as any other MMO's As i said my extensive game time should 
 speak for itself. I am constantly playing to get new titles and pvp is great. I like to make money 
 by farming and other stuff to try and get my characters the best looking armour.
  You can explore the map or just hang out with friends. Maybe you wanna help make your guild the 
 best, You can do that too. So if you want a good game for the computer, do yourself a favour and 
 go out and pickup your copy of guildwars today, and heck, get the campaigns and expansion while 
 your at it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DSeptim
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game, good story, a lot of quests and cool gameplay, the best places for a online game.
 
  The graphics are the best.
  Is very addictive, one of the reasons is the small amount of gold that you get after kill some 
 guys.
  Guild System is excellent like the PvP system and it comes with new things like GvG.
  A cool 
 gameplay; your power depends of your build, is just for the cool people : )
  One of the best things are the places, like Ascalon (the pre-one) .
  Its a long game and provides 
 to the player a good numbers of hour to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: niall1998
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2007 8:04 am PT
Review:  guild wars is sooo good it has the best gameplay. you should buy it. you can get lots of very good 
 skills and powers goodd wepons in the random areans you can: win for faction points so u can get 
 very good wepons very very very good graphics there are 3 ways to go around 1st person it is good 
 but anoying at times and 1st person dosent get good look at graphics then theres 3rd person gets 
 good look at graphics but that dosent matter in 3rd person it is more fun. then theres birds eye 
 view best for fighting but 3rd person funnest 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JGMagellan
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 2, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  I am rating this from a PvE perspective of the game. There is a PvP element as well, and it is 
 completely separate from the PvP environment. I will say that Guild Wars isn't that bad of a game, 
 it's just nothing special. There are many good points like the score, visuals of your character, 
 the customization of your attacks (even though you are limited to 8 at a time) , and the guild system 
 is unique. However, I believe that the bad outweighs the good in this case.
  
  Firstly, the storyline is boring. Considering that this game is linear (but you can go back and 
 revisit almost everyplace you have been) , you are forced to do the missions to advance. There's 
 no exploring the world and then doing missions as you see fit. So, with a mandatory boring storyline 
 to push you through the game, that's one negative mark.
  
  The action is easy in many places. In others it's practically impossible. For the most part, you 
 can take on about 6-7 guys at a time, depending. That's a fairly tough fight. Some areas will have 
 multiple groups of 4 for a total agro of over 20. OOoo... fun! When you go out to adventure, you 
 will have henchmen that you hire (they share in the gold loot and you can't quest without them) 
 that aren't the smartest of cats. Although they will attack whatever you do so that the monster 
 goes down faster. However, the healer is almost always the first target. Once you lose them, you 
 might as well drop over an die. Which brings me to my next point.
  
  The healer will be able to self-rez once, maybe twice. After that, you have to return to town for 
 them to rez. No problem, right? Wrong. Since everyone has their own instance once they leave town 
 (ie, just you and your henchmen or other players in your group) , the monsters will respawn and 
 you'll have to start all over. It takes about 20 minutes to cross a zone if you are fast. Killing 
 to cross a zone gets old fast. This forces you to have one of your two professions as one that 
 rezzes so you can keep your weakling healer alive. This becomes an issue in missions, because if 
 you wipe (ie all die) which is common if you have henchmen, you have to start all over. In the 
 explorable areas, you respawn at a point and don't have to kill everything all over again to get 
 to where you were going.
  
  When you die, you lose a % of your health and energy. About 15% per death. This adds up quickly, 
 and soon you will be as fragile as a 103 year old woman. In which case you will have to return 
 to town and start all over again.
  
  There is not much community in this game. People don't really talk. The upside to having your own 
 instance is that there is no spawn camping, the downside is that you cannot interact with others 
 unless you are in town. Even in a guild with 20 people online, you will be hard pressed to get 
 any of them to talk.
  
  I could be wrong, but I'm fairly sure that if you wish to PvP, you have purchase that separately. 
 Great, more money. Expansions can be pricey, yet there is no subscription cost to playing.
  
  Many ups and downs. There's a reason everyone plays WoW. Bigger, more to do, more customization, 
 yet unfortunately more immature players as well. I have no idea how this one made a 9.2 on the 
 reviews. Try the first game for a while before buying the expansions. You might like it. I however 
 have better things to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_pWnzz_YoU
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  This is by far THE best MMORPG out there. It gives to the player freedom, by exploring the vast 
 continent that Guild Wars offers. Fun, sometimes if you don't wanna do quests or missions, you 
 could just chill out, chat with your friends, your guild or even your alliance. No high requirements, 
 since GW doesn't have graphics like Oblivion or other games like that, it's easy to play on any 
 computer with no performance problems. Replay value, even after you beat the game you can either 
 farm, explore the whole map, collect green weapons or play some of the other campaigns (Factions 
 and Nightfall) or the recently released expansion to Prophecies (1st GW) , Eye of the North. The 
 only problem is sometimes you can't get a party together which will either make you wait or take 
 henchman or heroes. Overall I would recommend this game to not only MMORPG games but to fans of 
 any genre of videogame's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viperhellfire
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. The store is the best i've ever seen, the combat is really fun, the PVE is 
 not quite as fun as the PVP but still really fun. The game can get anoing at some times because 
 of it's large number of quests. It can also be hard to get a group in the missions but if you have 
 a good build and good weapons you should me able to do the missions and most of the bonuses with 
 henchmen. You can expect whiny little noobs to but it's easy to just kick them from your group 
 or ignore them. There is also some really cool looking weapons and armor. But if you wan't a rare 
 perfect weapon you beater do some farming cause you will be paying a large amount of gold for them. 
 When you beat the game there is still plenty of things to do and you should always have something 
 to do, I have spent over 1,500 hours on this game and still love it!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: templargunman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  I got guild wars, maybe two months after it came out, so when I started, there were plenty of higher 
 level players. I didn't really understand how the game worked the first time I went through Old 
 Ascalon, but I quickly learned everything I needed to know and more. The game lasted nearly 500 
 hours of gameplay over about 2 years, and I finally stopped with my 3 permanent characters. I ended 
 up coming back for the expansion, that lasted me far less time and once again for the next expansion 
 where I put in no more than 20 gameplay hours. The original game gave me the freedom I wanted that 
 I never had gotten in any of the games I had played before, while still giving me a goal. Guild 
 Wars was my way off Runescape (a horrible horrible game, don't play it, ever) which I was addicted 
 to for about a year and a half. From guild wars I eventually switched off of guild wars and into 
 Oblivion, where from there I got of heavy gaming for quite a while. Guild wars allowed me to hang 
 out with lots of different people, my guild tMoE went through two golden ages where we first swelled 
 to nearly 40 members and then later swelled to over 50 with another 50 total in my 5 guild alliance 
 (all people from my original guild. Eventually my guild collapsed after I left for a year, and 
 I had to find a new guild. So I suggest guild wars to anyone who wants a great game with no monthly 
 fees. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokikitty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 3:08 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is one of those rare games that pleases both the PvE and PvP gamer. While the main purpose 
 of the game seems to be geared toward PvP, which it does admirably with short matches in the Arena 
 or in an actual Guild versus Guild match up, it doesn't short change the roleplaying experience.
 
  
  The roleplaying aspect of the game is quite fun. When you start a new game, you get to choose from 
 several different classes, as well as appearance. (The character models are actually attractive!) 
 After doing a few quests, you get the option of choosing a second profession. This mix of two different 
 professions makes for some interesting playing options. While some people say that only a Warrior/Monk 
 combination works well, it's been my experience that any combination is a potential winner. With 
 the limitation of only being able to play 8 skills from your collection at a time, it makes it 
 more of how well you know your character and what he/she can do, instead of what uber equipment 
 one can acquire.
  
  The graphics: The graphics are really pretty. While wandering around you get the sense of realism, 
 only better. This is the way every game should look.
  
  The gameplay: The game plays a lot like Diablo LOD. Not so much pointing and clicking, but the 
 influence is certainly there. Every time you do a major quest for the storyline, you and you party 
 (or henchmen) enter your very own zone. Nice for getting the most out of a quest. The game allows 
 you to hire henchmen if you just don't want to go through the hassle of finding a party. The henchmen 
 are sometimes a little annoying, but there have been times I have been glad to have them. Better 
 their deaths than mine! The major complaint I have is the level cap. It is just too easy to get 
 to level 20 in my opinion. If the game designers had made the level cap higher, or increased the 
 difficulty of achieving the top level, then perhaps it wouldn't feel as pointless to be halfway 
 through the game and have nowhere to go but sideways.
  
  The community: I found the community pretty friendly for the most part, which made it more fun 
 to party up. There is of course a section of the community that is immature, but if you don't like 
 them, feel free to ignore them. Most people do. One of the really great things about this game 
 from someone who likes to solo as much as possible, is that people can be bribed. If you can't 
 get through a really tough area to get to the next town, or that quest is impossible no matter 
 what you do, watch for people offering to run the desired area for a price. Pay the person, enter 
 the beginning area, and that's it. That person does the work for you, and you will zone out when 
 he/she does. Totally worth the money if you can afford it. The downside of the zoning rule, is 
 that one person who zones out accidentally will pull the entire party out.
  
  Replayability: 7/10 There are only so many quests available, but with the expansions, more are 
 created all the time. Also, many people enjoy creating different character types to see how they 
 play.
  
  The story is really worthwhile, the gameplay is fun, and you can play the way you like, either 
 PvP or PvE. Good for every RPG fan. And did I mention it's free to play online? Oh yeah, no monthly 
 fees! Best of all worlds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onenottoforget
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  When first introduced to the MMO genre I always thought that if something needed changing it was 
 that high level characters seemed to always win and to become a high level character you needed 
 to invest your whole life into the game. But with Guild Wars things changed.
  
  With the introduction of the level 20 cap system, and the ability to steam roll out a PvP Character 
 already at this max level, the idea of a level playing field where not only hours spent in game 
 mattered but also skill was born. No longer did you have to wait and suffer through the pain staking 
 hours upon hours of game play that seemed to have no meaning before you got to pwn some noobs. 
 This time skill was a major player in who was crowed victorious and who was shamefully defeated.
 
  
  But this was only one area that such a balance was created, no longer did you have hundreds of 
 skills available to you at once to create havoc to either the NPC or other players around you, 
 this time you were limited to 8.
  
  No longer where you given the upper hand for having a armor set or weapon that you bought of eBay.
 
  
  So for all those that love their competitive game play but seem to only be able to find it in genres 
 such as FPS, but really having a urge for something on the lines of the awesome Dungeons and Dragons 
 rule sets. Then pick up Guild Wars and its many campaigns including the recently release expansion 
 Guild Wars : Eye of the North and start winning those Guild Battles and remember. I haven't even 
 mentioned the story yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bullton_35
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 8:36 pm PT
Review:  i know every one is like o guild wars sucks balls and **** but have they played WoW!! all you do 
 is level for 95% of the time!! if your not level 70 you can't do **** thats why i like guild wars, 
 You can do almost anything at level 1 as long as you got a good team. WoW is all about being the 
 highest level but Guild wars is all about team work. thats why i say guild wars is way better than 
 WoW, plus its made by the same company that made lineage II witch is still way bigger than WoW. 
 Plus Guild Wars is free so you don't have to was $15.99 a month! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Last_Love_Song
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars Prophecies is the first in a line of 3 stand alone Guild Wars titles, and it is one 
 of the absolute best MMORPG's there is. The game itself consists of the main storyline which is 
 carried out through missions, and hundreds of side quests where u can gain items and experiance, 
 the game is fairly lenghty so you will be content for awhile and with all the character classes 
 it has massive replay value, all this bundled with the fact that this game is one of the rare free 
 to play without a monthly subscription games makes it a great play and a great buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zepheros
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  Guild Wars was a huge game in works many years ago. I actually didn't know about it until probably 
 March. But the game had 2 Beta's that I knew of to test the game as they finished it up, made fixes, 
 etc. Guild Wars stream lines data as you play the game. So you won't ever download parts of the 
 game you may not end up reaching 50 hours later. You download things when they are necessary for 
 you to continue.
  
  Guild Wars is made by ArenaNet. Not a very well known game company right now but they've got many 
 interesting games in the making. A group of Blizzard Employees were part of the main crew of developers 
 in Guild Wars. For those of you who don't know who Blizzard is, they've probably made the most 
 popular RTS ever (Starcraft) . But anyways, I believe the Blizzard employees are part of the reason 
 ArenaNet was able to pull off free online play with Guild Wars. Yes, that's right, I said FREE 
 ONLINE PLAY. A lot of people deny the truth that it's free online when it's obvious it is. They 
 feel the game will cost money in the future and that it takes SO MUCH effort to run servers and 
 what not, which obviously isn't true. Blizzard pulled it off with 3 games running on Battle. net, 
 why can't ArenaNet? Free online alone will draw in a huge crowd of gamers of all ages. I must say, 
 this game isn't for the younger generation in my opinion. It involves more strategy and PvP like 
 no other. You won't get very far in this game if you expect to just hack and slash your way through.
 
  
  Guild Wars is kind of like EverQuest in the time era it takes place in. More or less Medieval times 
 of war and magic, monsters and gods. This game is very large and isn't something you should expect 
 to master in a week. You can do things from exploring a huge world to having pets and training 
 them to fight at your side, customize weapons and armor, create a guild and recruit a large number 
 of players and fight against other guilds to compete for supremacy over everyone else to exploring 
 the map with friends, partaking in quests and learning more about the Storyline and how it revolves 
 around what you're doing now and from the past.
  
  This game is all about skill. And that's where the main portion of this games combat system comes 
 in. Skills are what separate you from everyone else... and your class. But I'll get more into that 
 later in the review.
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  You start off the game by picking which mode you want to do. There are two different modes. Story 
 Mode and PvP Mode. Story mode basically takes you into the game and you learn everything about 
 Guild Wars, find items, kill monsters, level your character, etc
  
  The PvP Mode puts you right into the PvP portion of the game. You basically make your character 
 right there and jump right into the game. The point of PvP Mode is strictly PvP. I personally haven't 
 made a character for this yet, so I can't speak much for what you can actually do outside of PvP.
 
  
  When you create a character you have the choice of picking from 6 different classes.
  Warrior - This would be your close combat player. Melee with swords, hammers and things of the 
 such.
  Ranger - A Ranger is the long range class with bows and arrows. They are the only class that can 
 have pets as well.
  Mesmer - A Mesmer is probably the hardest class to get play as a beginner. They mostly deal with 
 countering magic and attacks and then using it against their opponent.
  Monk - The Monk would be your healer. He keeps the party alive and can other things such as raising 
 your teams abilities temporarily or hindering the enemy.
  Elementalist - Magical spellcasters, nuff said.
  Necromancer - A Necromancer is your negative 
 based magic class. You can raise the dead, do damage from taking the life force of your enemy and 
 cast curses on them for periods of time.
  
  You really don't get very many options for style. You pick your class and sex, which will give 
 you different hair styles, faces, looks, etc. I would say this is something they could've broadened 
 and made more customizable, but oh well. In the game you can actually find Dyes to color your clothing 
 and give your characters unique looks. I guess that's one reason character customization isn't 
 so broad. Maybe Expansions in the future will open this up some more. You then give your character 
 a name, which has to be realistic to some degree (2 words or more) .
  
  The game takes place in a huge world, that for the most part is completely explorable. You have 
 your limits of climbing steep hills, jumping off cliffs, swimming and what not, but considering 
 just how much you can explore is amazing. You can walk or run and strafe, etc. Getting around can 
 be pretty glitchy sometimes when the game loads, so you'll have to bear with it. This game is still 
 very early in it's life so things will be updated and fixed in the future with no problems.
  
  What you'll most likely be doing in the game is questing and leveling your character, finding 
 new weapons, items, etc. Quests make up a big part of the Storyline and offer huge rewards most 
 of the time. So it's definitely worth playing them all even if you don't need to. You can partake 
 in multiple quests at a time or one at a time. Whatever suits you. Most will reward you nicely 
 and with things you may not be able to find anywhere else. A word of advice, when you complete 
 quests, be sure you have some free space for whatever you may receive for rewards or else you won't 
 be able to complete the quest.
  
  Storage early in the game can get pretty bothersome for those that like to stock up on things. 
 Extra storage is available early, but after you pass a certain point in the game you'll have a 
 LOT more room to stash things. Items stack so you don't have to worry about having 10 different 
 slots to carry the same thing. You can organize your items, trash them, use them, put them on your 
 character if it's armor or weapons. You can also customize weapons and armor later in the game, 
 which overall, will make you more powerful in PvP and against enemies.
  
  Now onto skills. Skills are probably the core of the player and in PvP. Skills are based on the 
 class you choose and your secondary class (if you choose to have one) . Skills have certain attributes 
 they are based off of. Which I will talk about next. You can have up to 8 skills at any given time 
 and can arrange them in towns and outposts. When you're out in the wild fighting etc, you are stuck 
 with what you have. But that shouldn't bother you unless you really needed to replace a skill with 
 one that was required for maybe a certain quest or enemy fight. Which you could just map jump to 
 a town; another very handy feature in the game. There are probably up to 70-80 skills per class. 
 Meaning if you had a secondary Class you could have up to 150+ skills in your grasp to use at your 
 own disposal.
  
  Attributes are the other thing that differentiates player from player. Most classes have about 
 4-5 different attributes that play there roles for those types of skills. You get attribute points 
 for every level you gain. The BEST thing about Attribute Points is you can refund points you've 
 already used to put them into another Attribute you feel like trying out later on. A very nice 
 feature in the game that ups replay value substantially.
  
  Control - 5/10
  I will admit, I'm not much of a computer gamer. So getting used to using my Keyboard and Mouse 
 over a controller is different, but it's not as hard to memorize as I had thought. When you buy 
 the game, you get a little Quick Reference Guide that shows you the default setup on the keyboard. 
 You can use the mouse for everything on the Keyboard as well, just at a slower rate. The keys are 
 setup pretty good as far as being close to doing one thing that might lead up to something else 
 you're doing. The skills are setup based on the numbers. The number pad isn't actually used for 
 anything, so I came to find out. Which isn't much of a bummer, trying to use skills on the other 
 side of the keyboard would be tedious. I probably played the game for 5+ hours the day I got it 
 and by the next day I pretty much had most of the keys memorized. If you can type normally with 
 2 hands then you shouldn't have a problem knowing which keys are where. If you're a finger typer 
 and look at the keyboard... that might be a different story, haha.
  
  Story - 10/10
  I can't tell you how involved the Story is in this game. The Manual that comes with the game is 
 probably one of the thickest I've ever seen for a game. Half of it is probably the story alone. 
 Which is a very good read. I personally hate reading books, but this was really interesting and 
 TRUST me when I tell you that you want to read it before playing the game. I started reading already 
 playing the game, but you'll understand a lot more of what you do if you read it, already having 
 the knowledge of the history as you play and get to know towns, locations and the meanings of certain 
 places.
  
  Every quest plays a part in the Storyline as well. The more quests you play, the more you know 
 about the Storyline. You don't have to play the quests, mind you, but playing them is a big part 
 of the game and well worth the time and effort. But all in all the Storyline is very involving 
 and won't disappoint.
  
  Graphics - 10/10
  The Graphics are absolutely amazing. You can see the game for miles ahead of what you're actually 
 doing. The landscape is very well done. Hell, you can even change the Visual Quality of the game 
 as you play it. Ranging from realistic water ripples, shadows off of trees, players, buildings, 
 the clouds pluming overhead and reflecting off the water to as simple as near motionless water, 
 a mere shadow under your player to movement in the grass and weeds. The advantage of this option 
 is MUCH smoother gameplay for those of you that don't have the luxury of a very high end computer 
 that can handle this game with no problems. I will say my computer isn't something for gaming these 
 days, but my specs are just good enough to handle Guild Wars on an average scale. This game does 
 have a Video Card requirement which is pretty high on my standards. Most people seem to have the 
 cash for something like a Radeon 9800 or a Nvidia 6800, but I don't. I got a Radeon 9200SE for 
 50 bucks and the game runs great on it. You don't need anything expensive.
  
  Detail on players, monsters and items is very well done. It may seem like not much is put into 
 the active environment as you play, but you can zoom in and basically scroll 3D all around yourself 
 to get angled shots from just about anywhere. You can even play this game in 1st person if you 
 wanted too. I wouldn't recommend it though.
  
  Sound - 10/10
  RPG's are known to have very good music and rhythm in the game as you play it. Guild Wars is just 
 that. Relaxing music for every area you go to. I'm not sure if it's just me, but it seems like 
 they update the Servers sometimes and change the music in the areas to keep it fresh. I could just 
 be hallucinating though. But one unique thing ArenaNet did was provide each skill with it's own 
 unique sound for PvP purposes. This is something they did for those hardcore PvP players that want 
 to become masters of the game and know what their opponents are planning to do. So basically, you 
 just listen for that chime , know what your opponents next move is going to be and counter attack 
 it with something of your own to render them useless. Very useful, but will take a lot of time 
 to memorize all those unique sounds.
  
  Replay Value - 9/10
  First off, this game is online. Online games ALWAYS have a huge amount of replay value. This game 
 is a new generation RPG that includes a huge 3D world which you can explore with friends, strangers 
 or NPC's whom will aid you in your battles. The PvP alone will more than likely be the reason this 
 game lives on. Hence the name 'Guild Wars' which is what PvP consists of, Guilds going at it to 
 compete for Rank and Fame. But I mean you have 6 different classes to choose from. You can mix 
 any 2 classes and come up with tons of combinations with unimaginable skill combinations to dominate 
 your enemies. This game will last for hundreds of hours easy if you plan to do everything in the 
 game.... or try too, haha.
  
  Overall - 7/10
  I recommend this game for just about anyone. A select few may not enjoy the PvP orientated environment 
 this game pretty much revolves around. Especially those big on RPG's and online gaming. However, 
 if you're a competitive person, make a guild and duke it out with hundreds of guilds to prove just 
 how good you are WHILE exploring the game on another character and finding new weapons and armors 
 for your Guild Character so he can become more powerful and hold his own in combat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fang_lord
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  hey
  
  After i done my Guild Wars eye of the north review i decided to do all them, so heres the originals 
 review:
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics are by far the best looking graphics for a MMORPG, the spell effects are gorgeous, 
 especially from monks and necromancers. Everything moves as it should, with the new updates, dangling 
 bits of armor move in realistic ways, the weapons and armors look amazing, in cut scenes the characters 
 mouths move accordingly, with light and reflections on anything thats metal or shiny. Great water 
 effects and enemy's just make this great to look at.
  
  SOUND
  
  Guild Wars has a beautiful soundtrack, just fits in perfectly with where you are and what your 
 doing at the time, it can be epic, or peaceful, or anything in between, and with some great voice 
 acting and sound effects, just add to the games greatness.
  
  GAME PLAY
  
  Whats the point in having all of the above, without having game play? (like gears of war lol) . luckily 
 for us, it has LOADS of it. Not only do you get infinite ways of customizing your characters appearance, 
 weapons, armors, skills, with runes, insignias, weapons upgrades and dyes. But you have on hell 
 of a HUGE map to explore! By following the 27mission story, which are spread out so u cant go thorough 
 it in a few days, you go from lush fields, to apocalyptic wastelands, to intense snowy mountains, 
 to the undead infested hill sides, to the HUGE jungles of Maguuma, and to deserts, and more! it 
 is just great.
  
  As many people complain about the level cap, i have to give my opinion on it. Its great. Full stop.
 
  
  Being able to get to max lvl in a week or 2 alows you to quickly see all you can see in guild wars, 
 so only your own skill will determine how far you can go as you go off against many who are 5+ 
 lvls higher than you! Guild Wars is not a grinder, its a Skill Based RPG, so even a lvl 17 could 
 beat a lvl 20 in a duel... if he had the right skills... Guild Wars also has a GREAT RPG element... with 
 over 500 skills to choose from you can truely make a unique character!
  
  Is pvp ur thing? dont want to go thro pve for lvl 20? dont... make a PVP character, he/she starts 
 at lvl 20 and can participate in all PVP games from the word go, but cannot go into PVE ever.
 
  
  PVP games include: Team Battles, 8v8 tactical elite combat or as its called Tomb Of Primevil Kings, 
 Guild v Guild combat, if you have factions, you get more, like the Zaishen challenge, Zaishen elite, 
 Alliance battles and more! theres just loads to do no matter how you play GW, and with 3 expansion, 
 you can have 3X the area to explore, and 3X the fun.
  
  OVERALL
  
  A game that you must by if your a rpg fan! did i mention its free to play? no strings attached... have 
 everything in the game FOR FREE... amazing...
  
  10 out of 10... the best out of Factions Nightfall and EOTN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oreaume
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Best GAME EVER PLAYED BY ME! i just love RPG games! this game in a way reminds me of Fable! But 
 i just started playing it and it is really awesome! i dontknow what ese to write im just making 
 this at least 100 words! yws i could go on forver of how awesome GUild Wars is but that about all 
 lol! it just plain rocks.... Oh and you can add me to your guild wars Zombie Bunny, and you can 
 check out my guild wars Forum Http://www. godguildwars. freeforums. org just check it out and register 
 if you like but its only for Guild wars players 
::::::

::::::
UserName: memynameandme
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 4:32 pm PT
Review:  There are only a few things that I can complain about with GW. Trust me when I say the GOOD greatly 
 out weighs the bad. However, this is not really an MMO. Yes, there are many people playing it and 
 you can team up together at any time , but it does not follow the typical formula. No grinding... at 
 all! Everything is instanced!
  It has an ACTUAL PLOT that you have to follow to advance through the game!
  Simple item management!
 
  Re-Spec a character almost any way you want!
  
  My only complaints:
  No auctioning system for trades
  No ability to craft your own items
  Very few items, armors 
 and weapons (i like complication like that in a RPG)
  Very simple stat system (again I like complication)
  Only 8 skills usable at any given time, 
 (yes strategy is nice, but can be annoying)
  Low-Level Cap
  Let me jump GOD DANGIT!
  
  Most of my complaints are only nit picking, and most could still actually be considerd a perk... just 
 not to me.
  
  I have played WOW... good game with lots of options... but a total grind fest.
  Dungeons and Dragons 
 Online: Fun, but not something you stick with after reach your first cap.
  City of Heroes: Unique certainly, Lots of fun, just a little too simple, and just boring after 
 a while
  Several Others not worth mentioning. After way too many hours I still find myself combing back 
 to GW, it is fun, and I actually want to see what happens next. It can actually make me feel like 
 I am doing something. Oh yeah, did I mention there is no monthly fee?!?!? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pjawsk
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a amazing MMO which adds both a very amazing PVP side and a superb PVE side.
  
  I have played this game for over 1300 hours and i can just keep talking over and over on how 
 great this game is. After i had played numerous of MMO's and never really found the one for me. 
 I bought GW a couple of days after launch, i get home played it for two hours and then putted it 
 away. It was collecting dust on my shelf for four months, i finally gave the game another chance 
 and im glad i did!
  
  Guild Wars have unlimited opportunities for everyone with endless spell combination and a world 
 where you can do all you want.
  
  Id you are a hardcore PVP person or even a person who just wants to enjoy the story line of a great 
 MMO, guild wars is the game for you.
  F*ck WoW, GW FTW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appleman78
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is good because there are stacks of missions and quest that will keep you going and there 
 are grerat titles for you to work towards and there are lots of differnet types of armour and weapeans 
 also there are different professions that your get to chose from including warrior, ranger, monk, 
 necomancer, elementelst, mesmer and more.
  its not about how high a lvl u are it is all about wat build u have and there are also great pvp 
 arenas so u can fight your freinds or just other random people online and not to forget the great 
 guild battles they rock. So i hop u injoyed my review i say buy the game u will love it From appleman78
 
  
  Guild wars rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gatermag
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  It is a great free huge online game that is great for a while but then it dulls down. It is so 
 easy to get to level 20 (the max level) level 20 max is pretty weak by itself and yet it so easy 
 to get it its disappointing. There is only so much to do in this game. there arent really any weapons 
 or armor that sets you apart as the best of the best. all the level 20 armors stats are the same 
 the only difference is that some cost more than others and barely look any better. Weapons there 
 and special ones you can get but it only makes you better at a certain thing not all around better. 
 It is a great game for the price of just the game and no online fee. this is a game that if you 
 dont have the money to spend on monthly fees for WoW and still want a MMORPG its great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mercenary-73
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  Well after getting dissapointed of world of warcraft i dicided to try guild wars and found it way 
 better. Its free!!! well.... you must buy the game of course but its not expensive.
  
  The graphics are trully good and the that you can do things with your team makes more funny hehe. I 
 got really hooked up to this game after i bought and i can tell u that it wont dissapoint you. Just 
 know the right people or start a team to make it cool if not its gonna be really hard.
  
  The only thing i found annoying is the sounds but u get used to after u play it for while but all 
 the other things are really really good.
  
  Every should try Guild Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevildweller
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars
  Review by Simon.
  
  Good Points:
   Free online play
   Massive world to explore
   Having a Guild and Guild Hall
   Interact with people round the 
 world
   For a massive game, it runs really good if you have a good internet connection
  
  Bad Points:
   If you loose you activation username your pretty much screwed
   If you 
 have a bad internet connection
   Bad internet connection may cause the game to stutter
   It can be quite difficult to find good willing player to join your guild.
  
  The Review:
 
  Guild was is a massive multiplayer game where people round the world can interact with each other 
 for free. But the game is not for everyone. It is only for those people that love playing massive 
 multiplayer rpg game.
  If you have never played a MMORPG before and are looking to get Guild Wars as your 1st, I'd recommend 
 World of Warcraft, or The Elder Scrolls. Guild wars is an amazing game don't get me wrong, but 
 it have a great amount of commands and keyboard info to learn that mite be confusing for some people.
 
  
  Guild Wars is so big I don't even know where to start.
  
  Lets start with the graphics. You will need a 64mb NVIDIA Geforce 4 Ti graphics card or better 
 to play the game in full graphics which every gamer should have. The graphics are very good and 
 the background sceneries are amazing. You have a whole massive world to explore. 8/10
  
  The game-play has a great amount of commands and keyboard controls to learn. Before you can do 
 anything, first you'll have to Activate your game to play. You make up your own username and password 
 so be sure to make it something you will remember because if you forget it, then you are pretty 
 much screwed because you cannot change it. Once you've activated your game your are ready to play. 
 Make you character and pick what type of character you wish to have. There is a few type you can 
 pick from.
  
  Warrior:
  Which is what the name stats. You're a warrior which mean your character can use large weapons 
 and shields.
  
  Ranger:
  Rangers are unique in their ability to succeed with the help of, or even in spite of, their environment. 
 Nature rituals allow them to manipulate the environment to hinder their enemies, or borrow the 
 very power of creation to heal and aid their allies. They favour long range combat, the bow being 
 their weapon of choice, and can be especially effective from elevated locations such as bridges 
 and cliffs. They are the only profession with the ability to charm animals, which then accompany 
 them on their travels and assist them in battle, gaining experience and lever over time. Monk:
 
  Monks employ a direct conduit to the gods, and the answers to their prayers come in the form of 
 healing and protection for their allies and damage to their enemies. Combined with any other profession, 
 monks can alternate between supporting their party and dealing damage to opponents. Elementalist:
 
  Elementalists deal with magic attacks. Summon the power of earth, air, fire, and water and command 
 them at will. They can inflict more damage in a single strike than any other profession, The wise 
 Elementalist avoids becoming surrounded, but keeps a local area of effect spell on hand just in 
 case.
  
  Mesmer:
  Mesmers are masters of illusion and control, subverting the enemy's Energy for their own use, and 
 that of their allies. Combined with any other profession, their skills provide excellent support, 
 turning the enemies' powers against them and changing the very fabric of reality to hinder foes 
 and help allies.
  
  Necromancer:
  Necromancers are master of the dark arts, calling on the spirits of the dead and even death itself, 
 to overpower enemies and assist allies. In sacrificing Health and taking curses and diseases upon 
 themselves, they can deal large amounts of damage to those foolish enough to oppose them. Dead 
 and dying enemies become unwilling allies in their hands.
  
  After you have chosen you profession and customized you character, it's time to step into the world 
 of Tyria. In Tyria you can do so many things. Almost every one you see in the game is played by 
 someone round the world. You can work as a team, go on your journey with the help of allies that 
 are played by the computer's A. I. or play on your own. In every town or city, there is where you 
 can interact with people round the world. Talk and make new friend, ask for help on missions, sell 
 and bye items and weapons and so much more. You can get you character to do commands which I thought 
 was rather cool. You can make your character wave, sit, dance, laugh, say yes and no and lot, LOTS 
 more. Out side towns and city's is where you fight enemies, train your character, go on mission 
 or find rare items and weapon that you can show off. At the start of the game, you go through a 
 tutorial mode going through most of the basic game-play and commands. After that you do what-ever 
 you want based on what you've learned What are the best weapons for you profession, the best item 
 to for weapons, what items are best to sell and items that do so many things that will help you 
 character evolve. You get the chance to play all the other profession and at the end off you train 
 you must pick one, so altogether you will have two profession, one is the main profession on your 
 character and the other is your chosen backup profession. So pick the professions you will be happy 
 with because they stay with you the entire game. The thing I really like about Guild Wars is that 
 you can make up your very own Guild. Guilds are bands of heroes who have joined together under 
 a common banner. You can make up you own guild but this will take a lot off gold and time to work 
 up to get. Or you can join a Guild. When you join a guild, you have a ready-made list of friend 
 are have joined the guild with whom you can form adventuring aprties, trade item, complete mission, 
 and more. Each guild has their own colours and emblem, which allows members to identify one another 
 on sight. By visiting the Guild Registrar in any town, is how you make your guild. Having your 
 own guild you can invite members, members can ask you if they could join. You guild earns rating 
 points for each guild battle victory. A good rating means a good guild. You can set up a guild 
 hall where you and all you member can go for private meetings and is the place to go for launching 
 Guild Matches. Each guild can have a guild hall, but it takes a lot of gold to get a guild hall, 
 so don't expect to get one right at the start of the game. You have to work hard to get a guild 
 hall, and it's so worth it in the end. The more people you have in your guild the more easier to 
 it to find information about rare items and weapon from your members and to get help in missions 
 and so on. Having a good guild mean you will have to make new friend that you think will be good 
 in you guild. If you're a type of person that doesn't like taking the time to chat and get to know 
 a person then making a guild mite really work very well. 9/10
  
  The sound effects in Guild Wars are very good, just what you would expect from an RPG. 8/10
  
 
  The lifespan in Guild Wars is massive as you would expect from a MMORPG. This could take over your 
 life. It may take you weeks to really get into Guild Wars, and it may take you months to get your 
 own guild and guild hall, but after you do, it's so worth it and it's were it get more fun.10/10
 
  
  Overall Guild Wars is an amazing game for MMORPG fan, but not for people who don't like taking 
 there time learning about all the different types of item and weapon and what they can do. This 
 game is massive and will take up a lot off life. The game-play is great and there is so much you 
 can do and so many places you can explore.
  A great game I'd recommend to any MMORPG fan. 9.5/10
  
  Simon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crypt_mx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  Guild wars is unlike anything you will ever play. Guild wars puts you into a story of a hero who 
 must defend himself from all sorts of monsters. This game lets you do quests with a group of 4,6, 
 or 8 people. There is a wide assortment of weapons, armor , and skills that you can find and use 
 along the way. The world is just huge and there is so much to explore. Guild wars is based all 
 around skill, not level. You use the skills you have found in any combination, but you can only 
 use 8 at a time. 8 skills , 1 skill bar, hundreds of skills to choose from. You must select skills 
 that work together, to deal damage, heal, or even protect yourself from damage. You can also complete 
 story missions, where you are to stick to a certain area and complete the objectives. You will 
 find yourself doing no Grinding in guild wars, simply because it is faster to level up by quests. 
 Guild wars also has Pvp or player v. s player. There is lots of this to see in guild wars. There 
 are many kinds of pvp, Random Arenas, Team Arenas, Heros Ascent, and GvG (Guild VS Guild) . All of 
 this will pit you up against other players that you must kill to win the game. The sound in guild 
 wars is great, the music is well done and well placed in the game. Guild wars is a game you can 
 play over and over again. Guild wars is great the best mmorpg to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasafetch
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 10, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars truly is a unique MMO. Combat wise, the game functions like most MMOs. The presentation, 
 however, is completely different. for starters there's actually a story and cut scenes. The NPCs 
 in this game feel like they actually have an important role and you come to respect them and look 
 up to them. Although everyone is going through the same story line and missions, the game is able 
 to cleverly fool you into thinking that you're making a difference in the world of Tyria. This 
 is a good thing.
  
  Presentation aside, the game play is slightly different. Like most MMOs you level up, point and 
 click to kill and learn new skills. Yet, somehow, Guild Wars manages to be different. The level 
 cap in the game is 20. Although this sounds low and discouraging it actually works well. it takes 
 a long time to get to Level 20, and even once you're there the game is far form over. when you 
 begin the game you pick your profession: Warrior, Monk, ranger, etc. Within these professions are 
 various character traits. depending on how you sue these traits, you can be a different thing. 
 For example, the Warrior class can have warriors that use swords, axe warriors, hammer warriors, 
 or even tactical warriors. On top of that all characters get to choose a secondary class. these 
 secondary classes work in the same way. The best thing about Guild Wars is that you're barely tied 
 down. you can redistribute you attribute points at any time. This means in a second you can change 
 from being an Axe Warrior to a Sword warrior. Although your base class can never change your secondary 
 class can change whenever. This results in endless combinations and the possibility to play on 
 well after level 20.
  
  Bottom line is Guild Wars is an amazing game. Although it is lacking some of the basic elements 
 of an MMO it makes up for it in it's price and game play. you must give this a try if you're in 
 to MMOs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhii
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 9, 2007 10:45 pm PT
Review:  I bought the pre-access (or whatever it's called) set for $10 so I could try it out in beta. I 
 began playing the FIRST day of Guild Wars beta and I loved it! I soon went out and purchased the 
 full version a couple months after it came out.
  
  This game is amazing! I used to play Everquest and thought that was great. Guild Wars seamlessly 
 combines great graphics, unlimited game play, and a friendly player community with a collection 
 of well-managed, low-lag, districts and enough quests to fill any adventurer's heart!
  
  I just have to brag about their lag management. Everquest (like many other older RPGs) can have 
 a full day of downtime for updates for all the servers, plus the next time you log in you have 
 to sit through the downloading of those updates yourself (which can literally take hours!) This 
 is frustrating and it really limits your game play. Not only that but there are thousands of people 
 per server and hundreds of people per zone/area.
  
  Guild Wars completely annihilated this problem by creating one single-server with optional districts. 
 When an area gets busy more districts are automatically created to control the lag and people population. 
 All the districts have a maximum number of people per, so there is only so much lag you will ever 
 run in to. Too much lag in your district? Move to the next one in seconds! Its the same place with 
 different people.
  
  As far as Guild Wars downtime.... what downtime? There is hardly any time you can't play Guild 
 Wars. Updates are downloaded and installed when you begin each new session, and these normally 
 don't take long. If you play regularly you might have a couple updates per week which take a maximum 
 of a few minutes. If you haven't played for months, expect a full five minutes of updates (rolls 
 eyes) ... compared to an entire day of downtime? This is defiantly update and lag management at 
 its best!
  
  The computer requirements for playing Guild Wars are fairly low, so probably 70% of Guild Wars 
 players can find that they can play with MAXIMUM (yes MAXIMUM) graphics/sounds/etc. settings with 
 NO CHANGE IN LAG! The graphics are some of the best.
  
  As far as game play, Guild Wars is a VERY easy to learn game. If you have ever (EVER!) played an 
 RPG before (even one) you'll find learning GW nothing. If this is your first RPG, you'll find yourself 
 learning all the basics in 10-20 minutes. Everything else can be learned through frequent game 
 play. If you join a guild you'll find almost all your questions are answered!
  
  Guild Wars is a great game, the combination of missions and quests make it very interesting. Complete 
 all the missions. Then complete all the mission bonuses. Then complete all the mission/bonuses 
 in hard mode. If you've done all that you still have several more character slots, and did I mention 
 quests?
  
  Buy this game! Please! It will NOT put a dent in your wallet! FREE ONLINE GAMEPLAY and you can 
 get it for 30 to 50 dollars. Then it's yours... forever!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A1B2C3CAL
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  From the moment you create your character you can tell guild wars is a class act and has made a 
 place all of its own in great pc game classics. I can't find one huge negative thing to say about 
 the guild wars series and arenanet.
  
  This is a game you must try out yourself to see if your going to enjoy it. So many things to keep 
 you busy, I feel this game is well worth the price paid. From the PvE to the PvP it has something 
 for everyone.
  
  From the casual player to the hardcore, you can play as you want and not worry about not playing 
 for a few weeks and seeing your money go down the drain as in other pay to play games.
  
  Each of the 3 games GW prophecies, GW factions and GW nightfall are stand alone games and you do 
 not need one to play the other. Soon the expansion pack will be out called GW eye of the north 
 which you will need one of the 3 above games to be able to play GW: EN. This expansion will open 
 the way and set up the storyline to Guild Wars 2 that is being reported to be released sometime 
 in 2008.
  
  The Guild Wars games have something for everyone... casual players and hardcore alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kayos90
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 8, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is an MMORPG released by Arenanet and NCSoft, that defers from a lot of online games 
 that are being offered on the internet. Unlike the World of Warcraft game where its solely based 
 on lots of skills in your arsenal to use at anytime to kill anything the game requires great skill, 
 patience, and experience. This online game has an immersive PvE story along with a great PvP system 
 that raises the standard of how PvP rpg online should be played.
  
  Guild Wars, like any other MMORPG out there, offers various classes to play with. In this game 
 it offers 6 classes to play with that has its own unique attributes. Warriors are fighters with 
 the ability to withstand high amounts of damage and live long as well as high damage outputs. The 
 Elementalists are the mages in the game able to cast fire, water, earth, or air magic upon foes 
 from afar and close up. Rangers are the hunters in the game where they set up traps, unleash beastly 
 pets, and fire with their bows. The Necromancers are death obsessed casters able to unleash health 
 degenerating spells as well as summons bone minions. The Mesmers are casters that put hexes on 
 foes that disable them to do a lot of stuff along with damage output by energy draining. Lastly 
 the Monks act as healers that put up healing on allies as well as protective enchantments and unleash 
 their divine fury upon their enemies. These classes act as core classes to both PvE and PvP and 
 can suit almost any players that are ready to play Guild Wars. Each of these professions has a 
 variety of attributes that they can contribute their points into so that the effectiveness of the 
 skill is better. The skills in each profession are distributed into these attributes and the more 
 points in the attribute, the stronger the skill it is for that profession. Each character however, 
 has 2 professions. One is the primary and the next is the secondary. The reason for the combo of 
 professions is that limitless possibilities of skill combinations are opened to the player. The 
 player has a pool of skills to choose from both professions. However, the amount of skills is limited 
 as it is explained later. Even though the skills can be made stronger by adding points to its respective 
 attributes, there are certain attributes that cannot be made stronger unless it is your primary 
 profession. Each profession has a primary attribute that can only be increased if that attributes 
 profession is your primary profession. These constrict the players skill choices a bit but in 
 the end its a plausible decision due to the fact that it makes sense that only certain attributes 
 should be made only available if your main profession corresponds with the attribute.
  
  The games PvE story takes in Ascalon, where you are hero in training to fight against the might 
 beast-like species called the Charr. These creatures eventually burn down your homeland and places 
 you into the state your homeland is in, 2 years later. The previous 2 years is called the Pre-Searing 
 state where you go around the lush green world of Ascalon to train to become a hero, meet people 
 to train with, and collect skills to be used in the game. The player gets the feel for the basics 
 in the Pre-Searing by learning to mold combinations of skills together into a build. A build consists 
 of the only 8 skills allowed in a skill bar and used in the world to fight. The character has basically 
 2 places to go in Guild Wars in PvE. One is an outpost or a town, and the other place is the actual 
 battleground or the exploration zone. You are given a skill bar that can only consist of 8 skills 
 to be used at per time. However, the skills in the game are balanced so that they are not too overpowered 
 nor too weak. The sets of skills you put into the skill bar is called a build and the build can 
 be modified or changed in an outpost or a town but cannot be changed once you enter the exploration 
 zone. Part of the challenge in Guild Wars is that you must combine 8 skills to work well with each 
 other so that it kills the hostile enemies in the exploration zone fast and to keep yourself well 
 alive. The games PvE, unlike many MMOs out there, does not have healing items or anything of the 
 sort, rather if youre not in battle for a certain amount of time, your health regenerates, or 
 you have skills to heal you in or out of battle. The battles in PvE are set so that other people 
 you dont want cannot interfere with your battles, and because of this you cannot see any people 
 once you leave a town or an outpost. The player can only see characters that are in his or her 
 party. Because of this, the game takes out part of the MMORPG feeling of the game, but makes the 
 game more fair for everyone else. As you journey throughout the game the amount of people you can 
 have in a party goes from 2 to 4 to 6 and to the final members of 8 per group. These members can 
 enter mission and go through the story that the game has set out for you and start your epic journey 
 in the PvE world of Guild Wars. Throughout the PvE game, youll reach a point where you can make 
 your own guild, which is like a band of people who do things together with a big friends list, 
 and with the guild you can do PvE missions together, farm, do missions, etc etc. With the guild 
 not only can you do PvE stuff, but a lot of PvP stuff which will be covered later on. Though the 
 minor flaw in the PvE of Guild Wars is that a lot of the PvE features found in other games such 
 as healing items, setting up shops, an environment where multiple characters are shown, and finally 
 multiple races of characters, the game offers quite a big amount of content that makes up for it.
 
  
  Though the PvE game is very unique and enticing to many people, the bulk of the game is the PvP 
 portion of the game that Guild Wars has to offer. The 8 skill rule still applies but this challenges 
 the player even further by making you a very good player of the profession. The PvP looks no different 
 than its PvE counterpart, but it feels totally different. The game no longer pits you up with AI 
 monsters in a random field, but puts you to the test with intelligent, skilled, experienced gamers 
 that know the basics and the expert skills in the game. PvP pushes Guild Wars into its full potential 
 by making a build that combines, fits, and molds well with each other, and puts that against an 
 8 man team by allying yourself with 7 different characters. The PvP is what Guild Wars may be all 
 about (look in the name) but there are various forms of PvP in the game. As one mightve guessed, 
 guild wars is a variant in the game where a guild formed PvE will be grouped in an 8-man (or woman) 
 team to fight another guild. Guild Wars hosts a ladder of the top 1000 best guilds in the world 
 and to climb to the highest is one of the biggest goals in Guild Wars. This ladder gets players 
 motivated to not being one of the best players in the game, but one of the best guild. There are 
 other types of PvE matches such as random arena which puts you in a team with 3 other random people 
 to fight another team who got randomly matched up. Team arenas allows you to group a 4-man team 
 to fight another 4 might team but it can be considered a scaled down version of Guild vs. Guild. 
 There are many other types of PvP out there, but what makes Guild Wars interesting is the Hall 
 of Heroes. Hall of Heroes starts from a PvP arena (which a player has to unlock) and eventually 
 fights his way to the Hall. In this Hall, a team of 8 fights against other teams of 8 from FOREIGN 
 COUNTRIES. These countries will fight for the favor of the gods. The favor of the gods offers the 
 winning country a chance to enter exclusive PvE areas in Guild Wars that adds more to the fun. 
 The PvP portion cannot be described so easily but it has to be played to grasp the full knowledge 
 of the game. This remarkable game is a standout title in the MMORPG world that revolutionizes online 
 gaming to a new extent in marks of strategy, wits, and skill, that brings the current generation 
 of gamers to a whole new level. With PvP and PvE to offer in the game, this game is one of the 
 must-own online games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterJediGamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 7, 2007 10:27 pm PT
Review:  ... Let me start off my review by saying this... GW rocks HECK!!! ok first of all GW is total underated 
 like all the other players on the lakers beside kobe bryant. Thanks to WOW (world of warcraft) 
 GW is second place which to me is BOGUS!!! I mean listen to this WOW has 8 mil + players and GW 
 lower but close to it. In WOW u need to pay 15$ a month (thats just sick) i mean all my friends 
 who play WOW are like dirt poor cause they spent about 300+ dollars on WOW alone JEEZE MAN ! I 
 used to play WOW but its not as god as Guild Wars Trust me guild wars has better quality, graphics, 
 sound, and better people. When i was on WOW people were swearing at me and calling me a noob and 
 stuff but in guild wars no trashtalking whatsoever. People who get hooked on to guild wars know 
 what a good videogame is all about and GW is defintely Worth a one time payment of 30$ for the 
 disk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GriffinLord602
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  Right, i first played guild wars about a year ago, and from then on i was bedazzled by this game 
 they called Guild Wars . Though some may not agree, though guild wars is 2 years old i believe 
 it still maintains a fresh and visually stunning look, and also i believe that the difference between 
 the visuals of WOW and GW are huge. Though WOW fans may not agree i believe that guild wars is 
 a much better looking game with almost every aspect, down to, landscapes, characters, power visuals 
 and everything else. Some people put the visuals down just because its 2 years old . But as i have 
 stated i highly disagree. I did actualy play WOW once, and it wasnt that compelling, the quests 
 were basically just running back and for, and hardly any action, with poor looking weapons and 
 armor... I did force myself to continue playing to see if it would get better but it wouldnt. But 
 on the other hand Guild Wars starts off, and there are good weapons (visually) there are good looking 
 armor, there is more quality landscape... WOW fans wouldnt be pleased with what im saying, but its 
 my opinion. Plus Guild Wars is a beautiful game you dont need a super computer to use it, plus 
 loading is almost instant, (if you have a fairly average pc) and the story to guild wars is very 
 imersive and compelling. But.... i would not say that guild wars is perfect... (no way) guild wars 
 hasnt got a consistent world that WOW has got, which they are planning to intergrate in guild wars 
 2, which undoubtedly will be an amazing game, and it can be hard to find the right members for 
 the right mission, but its incredibly easy to play by yourself to. Though the level cap is only 
 20, even when you reach that level, it doesnt mean you number 1 in the guild wars franchise, there 
 are items, armor, weapons and elite skills that you need to hunt down to make a fully invinsible 
 unstoppable fighting machine. Which is another bonus to this game, just because your lvl 20, it 
 doesnt mean that the game is finished for that particular power. With the powers your limited to 
 8 which may sound stupid but, this encourages team play and strategic values for the gameplay... for 
 instance if your a character which can have your whole power pool in front of you less team play 
 will be needed... but if you have a portion of your power pool, then you will need others to complete 
 your quest/mission effectively... and that also brings me to the quests. As you know in an RPG 
 quests are about fetching something, killing something, or sending messages to get to a requested 
 area. But somehow in this game it feels different. The quests here arent so much about sending 
 messages and so forth, you feel as iof your progressing in the story and changing your style of 
 play as you come across different creatures. Unlike WOW where that is basically running back and 
 for, and it gets kind of annoying. Last of all... the continent... Tyria (continent for guild wars 
 prophecies) is absolutely huge, ive been playing for a year and none of my characters have 100% 
 exploration of the place, and most of them have about 50%/70%, because i am not a player who likes 
 to collect titles (titles are things or subconscious quests that when you complete, you earn a 
 title which would improve character statistics) So the continents are full with adventure and story... 
 and each expansion comes with its own continent.
  I will now review the gameplay:
  Gameplay is incredibly addictive and a big part of this game, seems there are so many modes you 
 can play in, and different things you can do. Theres a whole variety of different ways you can 
 plan out each character, whether its collecting money, gaining experience and titles or just having 
 fun.
  Graphics:
  The graphics in this game as i have already explained are highly colourful and though this game 
 is 2 years old i still consider this game very beautiful and sharp.
  Sound:
  The sound to this game is good, escpecially in cut scenes after... eg. finishing a mission. Also 
 The power effects sound very authentic which increases the fantasy you play.
  Value:
  The value for this game is just incredible, this game just &pound;10 is well worth the money, plus 
 it makes it easy to just try out the game, and if you dont like it you dont feel sorry for yourself, 
 cause you only spent a &pound;10.
  Reviewers Tilt:
  Well me myself, love this game and will continue playing till players stop playing, and would reccomend 
 this to any rpg player because 95% of people who try this game, really love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonicare
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 5, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a MMORPG created by NCSoft a division of ArenaNet. It allows the player to chose 
 from PVE or PVP right at the start, although you can do both. It tends to focus more on strategic 
 use of skills and items than simpy out-levelling your opponents. One of the biggest perks of this 
 game is that, unlike most MMOs, there is no maintenance fee. Simply buy the game and enjoy. No 
 further fees apply.
  
  The game takes place in the fantasy world of Tyria. Initially the game starts in the idyllic setting 
 of Ascalon, a gorgeous and picteresque kingdom that is home to your player. There is a fairly lengthy 
 tutorial that takes place in this kingdom that will easily get most players up to speed on the 
 controls and tactics of the game. Through the tutorial, you learn the early story about your home 
 kingdom and how it is undersiege by a group of monstrous creatures known as the Charr. Once the 
 player is ready, they can choose to leave the tutorial's setting and start the main storyline. 
 After experiencing a cataclysmic event in Ascalon, the true story begins. It will lead the character 
 out of Ascalon and across many different regions and kingdoms of Tyria.
  
  The gameplay is fairly straightforward and easy to learn, but rewards those who employ some form 
 of strategy. At the beginning of the game you have 6 main classes to choose from - elementalist, 
 ranger, warrior, mesmer, monk, and necromancer. Each class has its specific advantages and all 
 are well balanced. There is no right or wrong choice, it just depends on your own preferences. 
 Each class has their own specific attributes. For example, elementalists have air magic, earth 
 magic, fire magic, water magic, and their unique attribute, energy storage. The attributes all 
 have specific skills that can be equipped by your character such as fireball, meteor storm, fire 
 storm, etc. under the fire magic attribute. As your character gains levels, you get more attribute 
 points to distribute and increase the effectiveness of these skills.
  
  During the game, you will also be able to chose a secondary profession which further increases 
 the variety of your character. You can make the famous warrior/monk, a monk/necro, or any specific 
 combination you desire. The only downside to a secondary profession is that you do not gain access 
 to it's unique attribute. There is no downside to having a secondary profession - you don't have 
 to spend any of your attribute points on its attributes if you don't desire.
  
  Once you have distributed your attribute points, you can pick which skills you'd like your character 
 to bring. You have 8 slots to equip various skills, so it does involve some thinking and strategy. 
 If you're trekking into the frozen wastelands of the north, you may want to bring some fire skills 
 instead of ice attacks.
  
  Another big perk about guild wars, is that the distribution of your attribute points and selected 
 skills is not set in stone. You can redistribute the points between attributes at wills in towns 
 and outposts. Same with skills. Your character can specialize in one aspect in one mission, and 
 switch to a more suitable aspect for the next mission. This freedom and variety adds to the enjoyment 
 of the game and prevents it from becoming repetitous.
  
  Throughout the main storyline, you can play solo or join pick up groups to help you through hard 
 regions. Depending on the area, you can have parties ranging in size from 4 to 8 players. If you 
 prefer the solo track, the game provides henchmen in each town and outpost who can assist you. 
 Their AI is fairly good and they can be quite helpful in missions. However, the real fun of Guild 
 Wars is playing with other people. Pick up groups can be both rewarding and exceptionally frustrating 
 depending on the quality and maturity of those you find. Fortunately, I've found that most people 
 in GW tend to be very decent.
  
  The game does have a low level cap of 20. Most players should hit that about halfway to two thirds 
 through the storyline. The developers wanted the players to focus more on strategic use of skills, 
 attributes, and teamwork rather than just power levelling through the game. Once the main storyline 
 is over, there is still plenty to do. The game has literally hundreds of titles that the player 
 can accumulate for reaching certain achievements. This alone can keep you occupited for countless 
 hours. There are also special elite missions and areas that are both challenging and rewarding 
 for more experienced players. Proper team selection is key.
  
  Although the PVE alone justifies the purchase of this game, the is a whole other aspect to Guild 
 Wars - PVP. You can bring your PVE character over to the PVP arenas or create a PVP only character 
 and jump right in. There are various types of PVP combat that appeal to different people. The easiest 
 is the random arenas. Here, 4 players are randomly assigned to a team and are pitted against another 
 team of 4 random players. The tactics and strategies in this area tend to be more rudimentary. 
 More experienced players typically take part in the team arenas or guild battles. In those areas, 
 you can select who is on your team. Thus, these teams are generally well organized and most have 
 some form of communication such as teamspeak or ventrillo.
  
  At any point in the game, your character can join a guild. Guilds can be started by any player. 
 They are advantageous for both PVE and PVP as they are a compilation of like minded players. It's 
 usually easy to find a needed comrade for either a story mission or a PVP battle when you are in 
 a large guild.
  
  To summarize, Guild wars is an exceptional MMORPG that provides countless hours of enjoyment. It's 
 large variety will provide something of interest to almost any type of player. Get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HicktownMayor
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 2, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  The Good: Can be played on low-end computers &amp; slower internet speeds than other major MMORPGs. 
 Good graphics. Easy controls. 1st person (kinda) or 3rd person. NO MONTHLY FEES!
  
  The Bad: Only carry 8 skills at a time. Lots to learn at first, can be a fit overwhelming at times.
 
  
  NCSoft's Guild Wars ( Prophecies ) is a great game. I'm a somewhat new player to it and I was just 
 blow away at the stuff it can accomplish even on low-end computers (or slower internet speeds) . 
 I had always heard about this game from others over the internet but I never bought it (mostly 
 because of dial-up internet) . Now, I have a little faster internet, so I bought it. It plays great 
 and I wish I woulda gotten it a long time ago. For the most part this game is a solid, non cookie-cutter 
 MMORPG. The level cap is 20. There are two ways to play, PvE/PvP &amp; PvP only (starts you out 
 at level 20 w/ previously learned skills) . There are a couple of things I find weird about this 
 game: You can only carry 8 skills around (what happened to the '9' &amp; '0' buttons?) and when 
 you go into the wilderness there are no other parties. Like when you leave a city it loads up your 
 own map, this can be a good or bad thing, just depends on what you like.
  
  The Ratings:
  10- Easy gameplay.
  9- Good graphics
  9- The sound matches up perfectly and really brings together 
 the game.
  10- NO MONTHLY FEEs, can't beat that with a stick.
  9- Great game, except for those 1 or 2 weird things I talked about. Could possibly be best PC game, 
 or atleast MMORPG! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteelRush
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 30, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a very solid game. As a standalone game, it wouldn't get much attention, but it's 
 the community elements that keep this game going strong.
  
  The story of the game isn't that strong or engaging. What keeps you playing are the people you 
 play with, and the strategy elements involved in the game. If you don't like to think, you won't 
 like Guild Wars, and you'll likely get killed all the time, and think the game is too hard. Guild 
 Wars requires thinking in how you build your characters and how you build your teams. If you have 
 trouble getting killed, just ask for help, and there are usually some friendly people around willing 
 to give you a hand.
  
  Here's a breakdown of the other elements:
  
  Gameplay
  
  Gameplay is nothing too flashy. You get a skill bar you can fill with 8 special skills at a time. 
 There are hundreds of skills out there, and it's fun to mix and match to make your character builds 
 more and more effective.
  
  Graphics
  
  Graphics get the job done. They aren't in any way groundbreaking, but they also aren't bad.
  
 
  Sound
  
  The voiceovers aren't painful, and the sound effects are nice. It's a solid effort.
  
  In short, 
 if you like action and strategy mixed, go out and buy this game. It's well worth your money, and 
 there's no monthly fee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledzeppelinrokk
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 29, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely one of a kind. It sets itself apart from all those MMORPG's for taking 
 out subscription fees. Although I would highly recommend this game to a gamer who appreciates beautiful 
 environments, a decent storyline, and great PvP action it has some dark points. For one, although 
 its viewed as a largely free-roaming game (dont get me wrong it is.... to a limit) it has a set 
 path you must go by. There are multiple paths but in terms of increasing your altitude or traversing 
 through rough ground there is absolutely nothing. You can expect well devised monsters and plenty 
 of them, but there will be no danger from terrain. Scaling mountains or descending craggy rock 
 surfaces.. forget about it. Only the mutant scorpions impose a problem upon you..... that and gigantic 
 skeletal dragons, but im sure you can just jog past those. Who says cowardice isnt a skill! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bryn5774
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 29, 2007 12:11 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars starts out in an ominous time and place, with war being waged between two sides. Being 
 quickly swept into action, one's character begins leveling up almost immediately, as per World 
 of Warcraft style. While some areas can be more difficult than others, and some areas require you 
 to party up, 90% of the game can be completed solo, and fairly easily.
  Achieving maximum level is not that difficult, and once that level has been reached, the game loses 
 its luster, and becomes boring.
  Overall, the game ended being disappointing, despite the wonderful music and nice graphics. Game 
 play is easy enough to get the hang of, with the full ramifications of the storyline being revealed 
 within the first half-hour or so. User-interface is friendly enough, and probably one of the only 
 saving qualities of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YellowJello
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 10:11 am PT
Review:  I think it has a lot of key elements that more MMORPG games should have. The story, for one thing, 
 is very good. The fact that your player shows up in all of the videos throughout the game is a 
 plus, it adds to the rewarding element. Unlike in World of Warcraft, you are the hero. The game 
 is a bit expensive, though, but that's okay if you ask me since the game has no monthly fee. I'm 
 on a tight budget and I don't play the game every minute of every day. I've had my account for 
 a total of 26 or 27 months and have approximately 500 hours of play time on the account.
  
  I'm not much for PvP, but that's another great aspect of this game, it's not all about the PvP 
 like World of Warcraft and Lineage II, there is a real story to it. World of Warcraft, Lineage 
 II, Eve Online, Silkroad, all of these games have strong stories behind them, but there is no story 
 in them.
  
  A major misunderstanding with this game is the level 20 cap they have on the characters. The point 
 of the game is not to level up and become the god of all other players, it's to play through the 
 storyline and get insane gear. There are bigger goals than leveling, like I said there is armor, 
 ranks, exploration points, mini quests, mini missions, rare and collectible items, and stuff like 
 that.
  
  Guild Wars is in my opinion the best RPG out there right now. Its team-based gameplay is extremely 
 well done, and the graphics are a nice touch as well. I would definitely recommend this game to 
 anyone who likes team-based games with a lot of thinking involved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loyed
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 24, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  guild wars combines all great gameplay elements of not only mmo games but normal rpg's as well. 
 Towns and outposts are kind of like lobbies seen in other online games, but you can walk around 
 and trade and buy and sell stuff to people and accept quests. When you are ready you can form a 
 party with people, use henchmen (npc party) , or venture on your own. This games combat system is 
 very different from other games in its genre because it is fast paced and you are Always almost 
 casting spells and skills. As you travel through great landscaping, great battle system and fun 
 quests you can do missions which take you through a great and long story line. You can also do 
 PvP on a PvP character or PvE character. The PvP in the game is way more fast paced than story 
 mode but it is alot of fun. even though the max levle in the game is level 20 mainly your equipment 
 and skills decide how good you are. There are several sets of armor in the game for each of the 
 5 classes in the game. The armor you get can also be upgraded with runes and insignias to make 
 it better giving it armor advantages, hp up etc.
  There are well over 150 skills in this game for the prophesis campeign (the first game) . you can 
 get skills from quests, capturing them with capture signet, or buying them with either faction 
 or gold and skill points. You never keep the same set of skills in the game too, you need to change 
 your skills depending on what enemies your facing, who else is in your group, and the environment. 
 This game has limetless possibilities and if you get bored with it after a while pick up another 
 campeign and try it too, you can make you characters travel to the other places too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sgtfoxy
Rating: 5.6
Date: Jul 21, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Guildwars immerses you in an MMORPG world where you combat monsters and level up with your friends.
 
  Guildwars is a good concept. I feel that at the moment it is lagging only slightly behind WoW. 
 The few features that put this game near WoW are: Free Online play. With an MMORPG where you have 
 no choice but to play online, who wants to pay 15+ dollars a month after you already payed 50+ 
 dollars for the game. A recreated world: Everytime you exit a major town you are created virtually 
 a private server/world for your party. All enemies are reset, and no high leveled player can come 
 an maul your beginning character. The level cap set at 20: This has both ups and downs. Your character 
 cannot be completely totalled in one hit, and it doesn't take as long to max out. It also leaves 
 you with a short game if you play a lot.
  My worst problem with this game is its graphics and speed. I have a 2,000+ dollar computer with 
 a top of the line graphics card and 3.7 megahertz processor, but I cannot get this game to run 
 smoothly! I have good internet connection and everything. The controls are somewhatpoor relying 
 almost solely on the mouse. some games can pull this off such as Diablo 2 but not Guildwars. The 
 levels are by zone but a very poor job was done of zoning. In the beginning my character was too 
 high for the zones i could find, but then I did a quest in a group and was vaulted in an area where 
 I was too low and now I am stuck in the higher leveled city.
  Overall this is a pretty good game and I would suggest that anyone who plays Runescape immediately 
 switch over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jay_Ray
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 28, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  'Basic' is a bit harsh, i know, but thats what this game felt like to me after about 1 day of playing 
 through it. Tbh im not sure if its the game itself or the fact that iv just been playin wow for 
 the past 1-2 years but to me ther seems to be somthing about this game that i just dont agree with. 
 The 1st thing that struck me was the very low lvl cap applied to any player (being lvl 20, this 
 is for the original game anyway, do not know about expansions tho, prob higher in those...) which 
 i mannaged to get up to approx 3/4 of the way in just over 1 day. This low lvl cap could be a good 
 thing realy when comaired to WOW's lvl cap because it does take so many more hours to get to the 
 highest lvl in WOW, which some ppl just dont have time for in ther busy day. Gameplay within the 
 Guild Wars world feels exciting to start with but very quickly looses its edge due to the fact 
 that the combat system feels fairly static because of the way your character is only able to stay 
 in 1 spot and fight. Its almost like running/moving while fighting is a bit too much for his/her 
 tiny RP brain... Another part of the combat system that i didnt fully agree with is the skill bar 
 that each character has running along the bottom of ther screen which they can adjust in the many 
 towns that are spread out across the map. One part of me thinks that this bar is a realy good idea 
 (especialy when in pvp combat due to the fact that each player needs to make sure that he/she has 
 the correct skills equiped to enure full use of the role that they are to play in ther pvp group, 
 ob not realy so essential when doin pve to hav exactly the correct array of spells) as it ob restricts 
 each player and adds an extra lvl of difficulty to this rather flat feeling combat system. But 
 on the other hand imo most of the skills that each character has to pick up while questing/exploring 
 are usless in 9/10 situations so u hav no need to equip them anyway. Although then when you find 
 your in the one situation where u do realy need them im sure u'll find u decided to equip another 
 spell instead (grrr) so perhapse a larger bar would hav hlped but but i doubt it. So far it must 
 just sound like i h8'd this game, which just isnt true. Imo its just as addictive as WOW if you 
 are the kind of person who would prefure the 'realistic &amp; RL accurate' kind of graphic maping/textures 
 over WOW's more cartoonie styles. The graphics and textures are very detailed, especially with 
 all the settings on full, the sound is much the same but can feel rather looped after a short period 
 of time (like most games of said catagory) . One last thing that i didnt realy like about Guild 
 Wars is the fact that you have to go one specific way around the map if you realy want to get to 
 the next questing area, this some times can take a very long time due to the path that your char 
 must tread to reach the next waypoint on his/her journey. Having said this your character can jump 
 between each town once he/she has discovered them, so travel does become faster once more of the 
 map has been discovered. All in all great for a free MMO (against which it has no other competiton 
 within the MMO market, as many ppl dont think it worth-while to pay a monthly subscription fee) 
 but just does not match up to other MMO's out on the market atm imo.... shame, so close but yet 
 so far... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crystalmethod
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 17, 2007 3:07 am PT
Review:  So, what can I say. Guild Wars to this date still remains one of my favourite MMORPG's. I played 
 this well before I got my hands digged into WoW, and wow what a difference there is between the 
 two games. They're both great in their own rights. But enough talking about WoW, this game is something 
 else.
  
  Guild Wars is a pure classic game and is amazing in one word. Especially if you're friends have 
 the game you can have a right blast levelling up together.
  
  The layout and structure of the game is one the best things that the Ncsoft team managed to do. 
 You start off at level one and basically as you level up you move through different areas doing 
 co-operative quests and standalone quests in those areas. But you know what, you actually have 
 a real purpose to progessing through the game. This area system (or path) actually lets you know 
 how much you have progressed and gives you a real sense of achievement. The ultimate aim however 
 is to get the mountains and make your way to Droknor's which is the ultimate city of the game. 
 Soonce you've got there, you've basically reached your target. And you know what, that will take 
 you a hell of a long time to do!
  
  The different types of environment are amazing. At first you start off in a picturesque forest 
 area where everything's happy then within the next 5 levels or so, the whole that you know is being 
 wrecked and destroyed and you skip into the future; From there on you have a wrecked barren landscape, 
 shortly after having gone through that you're in a mountain setting, after that you're in a jungle, 
 following that you're in the desert, then back in the mountains in a totally different perspective. 
 The progression through these landscapes really give you a great feeling of going through the game. 
 So much so, that people actually get ran to different areas of the game and they pay money for 
 this, so to put it bluntly the variety of environments and areas are amazing.
  
  Now let's talk about the graphics, if you've got a nice internet connection and graphics card and 
 RAM then you can have one beautiful game on your hand. Yes, it may not be good as some other games 
 out there but they really are quite beautiful, especially when you go in areas such as the mountains 
 as just mentioned. That's all there is to say.
  
  Now the sound, this contributes to what guild wars is. The sound has been beautifully created and 
 fits in perfectly with each different environment that you're in and it really makes you feel like 
 you're in that area and adds to the ambience which is brilliant. It really contributes to the universe 
 that you're in.
  
  The gameplay is something else, you basically have 8 skills on the bottom of your HUD (Of course 
 you have more) but this is what you can have at anyone time, or 7 and one elite spell which is 
 one the high-ranking spells at the end of the game. You go round killing monsters in instanced 
 areas with groups perhaps and you go into towns where it isn't instanced. This may sound weird 
 but it works really well, especially in co-operative where you can work up to 7 other players in 
 one long mission which can prove to be a lot of fun; and this is what allows you to go from one 
 area to another.
  The co-op missions of the games are necessary (you can go with computers but its not as fun and 
 towards the end of the game they're so rubbish they'll prove to be useless) . Apart from that you 
 have some generic quests to gain you more xp, and there is absolutely no grinding in the game. 
 The majority of the levels you gain are through co-operative missions anyway and during that time 
 you've having fun and progressing through the game. Towards the end you have several dungeons to 
 get some nice loot such as Sorrow's Furnace, but this is what the game is really lacking in my 
 opinion.
  
  So what else can you expect from a free mmorpg? A great experience that surpasses so many other 
 mmorpg's out there in its own right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dakr_Mage
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  This is defiantly a great game, one of my favorites. It has great graphics, game play, Sound, and 
 No Monthly Fees! All i had to do was pay $30 in store, and you don't need to pay Monthly fees unlike 
 WoW, Buy in store then pay $15 a month? Not what I call worth it. They have great classes, great 
 skills, weapons and armor. One of the most original games I've played yet. If you like quests, 
 great monsters, great communities, and fun things to do, then this is defiantly the game for you. 
 If you don't like this game, then you have not played it long enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skyfaze
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jul 13, 2007 11:57 am PT
Review:  This game is great for the price and should keep you entertained.
  
  The graphics in this game are great, not many complaints there. I just had to upgrade my graphics 
 card to play it.. other than that.. it's very nice.
  
  The sound isn't bad, gets you into the game. The gameplay is sadly limited, nearly everything is 
 group depedent, though the game length is good and should keep you entertained for some time trying 
 to make it all the way through. If you want a free online game that all you have to do is buy the 
 software, and that will keep you enjoying yourself, this just may be the one for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: downloadmanguy
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 9, 2007 9:47 pm PT
Review:  While originally I would have valued it at 9.0+, I think the unfortunate nature of online games 
 is their need to be revised based on current play, not play as they initially were. As such, Guild 
 Wars was once the best MMO game on the market, in this member's honest opinion, with nearly endless 
 possibilities for the future, and loads of fun to be had.
  
  Initially, I would have probably given Guild Wars a 9.5 flat.
  
  I have, however, been on board 
 Guild Wars the entire length of it's lifespan, and have thus been witness to the decay. From its 
 humble beginnings to its second and third campaign, Guild Wars slowly declined based on the changes 
 made from what I personally see as an under-prepared and inadequate development team, who since 
 the release of the second campaign have all but ruined it with their lack of management skills. 
 This isn't just a general rant from an outraged long-time player, but a serious concern from someone 
 who has seen severe, and outright destructive changes made to a once great game.
  
  Is Guild Wars still fun? Yes, it is. But it seriously lacks the luster it once had. Too many changes 
 are made to frequently, and arbitrarily, to the point now that entire classes (necromancers specifically) 
 have been deliberately changed at the core of their function. Quite literally, the game is different 
 than the one that was purchased in 2005. People who want to play Guild Wars even a little are usually 
 sold on the lack of monthly fee. I wont flat-out say don't buy the game, but expect to see many 
 things:
  
  1) Arbitrary Changes
  - The game has been based on a series of skills that are universal in both the PvE and PvP sections 
 of the game. Since ArenaNet seems to believe that absolute balance is needed in PvP, they have 
 made (and will continue to make) changes in PvP that will negatively affect PvE without reason. 
 - Core gameplay elements have been subject to change, effectively punishing professions like the 
 Necromancer into submission, making it little more than a Mesmer with undead minions. Also changes 
 in loot drops that make money all but impossible to make.
  
  2) You'll spend more money
  -First of all, you'll never have enough character slots to have one of each of the 10 professions. 
 Estimate that if you're even a little bit serious about the game, you'll likely spend 20-30$ in 
 character slots alone, simply because they have never been willing to give them out accordingly.
 
  - Unless it's true casual play you're interested in, you will more than likely need to buy all 
 4 games, which sums up to 150$+.
  - It seems that the vast majority of players can't make enough money to sustain themselves and 
 often buy from gold sellers. Depending on your need, or whether or not you actually buy gold from 
 online stores, could be anywhere from 20-100$.
  - They've started on gimmicky crap too, a promotional coming up offers extra missions to people 
 who spend 29.99$+ in the online store after a certain date, don't fall for this.
  
  3) Death
  - The game is at it's end. They've already announced Guild Wars 2, and will discontinue 
 the line of original Guild Wars games, only after having destroyed them. I would advise staying 
 away from Guild Wars 2 also, if the original game is any indication of how it will end up for the 
 gamer.
  
  
  Overall:
  ArenaNet has developed a game that appeals to new users, ignores long-time players, and subsequently 
 benefits from this sort of setup with a lack of monthly fees. Purchase at your own risk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mparent1963
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 5, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars goes where no other mmorpg has gone by offering fast-paced and well though out PvP as 
 well as incredible PvE with an interesting storyline. After you create your character you arrive 
 in Ascalon City, a city full of bright colors and happiness. Unfortunately, a nasty race called 
 the Charr comes and destroys Ascalon, an event called the searing. The controls are simple and 
 the interface is nice and clean. Leveling is easy and will make you wonder why you spent hours 
 and hours grinding in WoW.
  
  Pros: No monthly fee, no level grind, not very many 'go kill x creature' quests, amazing graphics, 
 doesn't need a high end p. c. or video card.
  
  Cons: At times the community can be crappy, skills are nerfed too often, and there are some minor 
 glitches here and there.
  
  Conclusion: Guild Wars is completely different then any MMO out there... worth the $50 (now $30) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keebthesquee
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 4, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  and well that pretty much sums it up. haha. no, i kidd.
  
  gameplay-smooth and fast. easy controls and a good tutorial to get you familiar with the game play. 
 co-op plays incredible and so does the pvp..... even though the pvp may get a little cluttered with 
 particle effects and other stuff from all the magic and powers the characters posses. but that 
 hardly bothers me, and then again i don't think it is considered a problem. but it does get annoying. 
 graphics- beautiful. sound- hmm..... reminds me of morrowind. value- has a lot of value. for thirty 
 dollars you get unlimited on-line game play....... along with two game modes. the people behind 
 guild wars are always making new missions and quests for you to play, so it has long lasting value. 
 Along with the constant battle of the guilds to see who can stay on top. this game packs a lot 
 of fun into one package. i recommend this game to anyone who is or is not a mmorpg fan. i personally 
 have never played an mmo and this was my first one. and i am proud to say i will be playing this 
 game for the many months to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcanum
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  GuildWars is two games in one. There is the metagame, which is Player versus Player. This player 
 vs player aka PvP has several versions, there is four vs four, eight vs eight and your guild vs 
 another guild. PvP is intense and not for all. But this is only one side of the game. Most will 
 start out playing the player versus environment, aka PvE
  
  PvE is you and other people engaged in the story and doing quests and missions to gain experience 
 and treasures. The game is very good for new players to RPGs in that there is a good training. 
 The game is easy to play. Guild Wars has great graphics even on my laptop with only 256MB of RAM. 
 The game looks beautiful, and battles are very well done.
  
  Interaction with other people is easy and usually you team up to do quests and missions, however 
 you can go solo through the game. Most people will make friends and join a Guild where you can 
 chat, hang out, and play together.
  
  There are several different types of character types to play, from your typical Warrior, and healing 
 Monk to your Ranger and Elementalist. Characters also have secondary classes which makes the variance 
 of characters vast. There are hundreds, yes hundreds of skills you can choose from to use. The 
 game offers many challenges and there are many areas that can be played over and over. This game 
 has NO monthly fee, so it is also very cheap. I have been playing almost since it came out, and 
 I have over 2000 hours logged (yes, two thousand!) . It was about time to write up this game! The 
 other Guild Wars games that have followed, GuildWars Factions, and GuildWars Nightfall are equally 
 good, each with different twists and new additions to the excellent system of the original GuildWars. 
 You can not go wrong with any of them! I own them all and have been a daily player as I said, shortly 
 after the original came out. If you are looking for an online RPG this is an excellent choice. 
 If you are deciding between This, Factions, and Nightfall... I personally like Nightfall the best, 
 but they are all GREAT. and as for World of Warcraft.... well, my guild has three or four people 
 in it that came from that game, and they all say that this is better, not to mention that its a 
 lot cheaper. I have nothing negative to say about this game, its simply a masterpiece, that I was 
 searching for ever since I started playing Zork! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warprofitin
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 2, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  To me guild wars is a fun mmo and the guild system is great. You can have practices against your 
 own guild and have unranked fights against other guilds. There is non guild pvp, guild pvp, and 
 alliance pvp. Guilds can also make capes to show who is in what guild. You can also get a guild 
 hall witch is an area just for you and your guild you can also you can invite friends that are 
 not in the guild to go there. If you also have nightfall and factions you can pick up to 10 classes. 
 Each class has there own sets of skills and you can pick up to 2 different class a secondary and 
 a primary class. There are many quests and some are very hard you will need the help of other people. 
 But when your not in a town they make a private area for you and your party the only people you 
 will see are people that are in your party. This is defiantly a game I would recommend. There is 
 no monthly fee but you need to buy the game to have an account. I give this game a 9.4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tydus121212
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 24, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars HIGHLY ADDICTIVE, I played this game for over 2 years and still haven't got bored of 
 it yet. Ok at the beginning the game does suck ass but don't just quit yet, because you are missing 
 one heck of a game. You need to spend over 1 hour to really get the hang of it and know where to 
 go and all that. This game is worth every penny! And it's MMORPG over 1000 people each day!
  The game has missions that can be very very hard. But never back down, if you have a friend it 
 can always be easier! (here is a fansite to help) www. guildwarswiki. com
  
  9.4 SUPERB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 22, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Gameplay is fun and sometimes fast with regualr story missions to do and then do quests 
 that expand the games story line. A HUGE!!! Area to explore and lots of creatures to kill.. max 
 level is 20 but very hard to get to lots of items to get aswell..
  
  Graphics: They are ok for a MMO that wad released in 2005.. They do give WoW a run for the money 
 tho. Very realistic enviroments and nice sun effects shadows are real time as well..
  
  Sound: Nice sound effects from the claging of swords to the games ambient back ground noiese and 
 music. Not Much to describe tho.
  
  Value: The game is STILL 40 BUCKS but there is no subscription fee which is fine by me.. Ive gotten 
 almost 300 hours of play out of it so far.
  
  The Good: Graphics Leveling System and Quests
  
  The Bad: Some lag issues and random crashes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_zelda_dude
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 22, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  I play both WoW and Guild Wars, they are really different from one another. Prophecies gives you 
 8 characters to choose from, each balanced and work very very well. The only thing I've noticed 
 in character customization and everything is that everyone is human in Guild Wars. No Trolls, Orcs, 
 Blood elves, Or Night Elves, but humans. Yet they all look really great artistically and make up 
 for it.
  The PVP GVG HA TA RA are all part of Guild Wars PVP. This is great and forces you to be strategic 
 in your *builds*. you are allowed only to bring 8 skills with you into combat which also creates 
 strategy. The story is satisfying and the PVE or Roleplaying part of the game is solid, even more 
 so then the complex PVP. The missions are varied and make you mix up the teams a bit. I wish the 
 Gamespot review didnt mark this game down for not having people to play with, because my guild 
 was always there to help me. I was always occupied by friendly players, thus creating a unique 
 gaming expierence for me. MMORPG's are all about the social help of the game, If your getting smack 
 talked at by thousands of people in PVP because you just got *pwned* then you probably wont have 
 the best of times. But it really depends on who you hang with. Any game with a social aspect will 
 vary largely, but do not be unencouraged by these people just play the game. And if you do not 
 like the social part of the game there are always henchman there for the taking, to help you on 
 missions and quests. Guild Wars is addictive, fun, and though the sound only got an 8 in the gamespot 
 review, adds a great affect on the gameplay, I love the music in this game.
  this is a must have for PC owners. Along with Factions and Nightfall, together they make a great 
 gaming expierence. Sorry Biased WoW players value wise, this game has definitely won. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cobacel
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  Its going to have 3 expansions in total Faction, Nightfall, Eye of the North and in 2010 i hope GUILD 
 WARS 2 with more races outstanding graphics and mega cool gameplay events and all the necesary 
 thing for the best MMO wow suxx dependent and stupid toony graphics wow player are stupid and uneducated 
 i know i got ,, friends like that in guild wars everyone is having fun they take care of you when 
 youre in a guild you feel like beeing a part of something a family the one you alwasy wished andalliances 
 all those thing . Bye thanks for reading ... if you read this..! Bye vote guild wars for best mmo 
 hope i wrote something good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thenarkallaptar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 18, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Here are some of the more commen questions asked and I do my best to answer them.
  
  How's PvE? - You equip your character with 8 skills one of which can be elite, and go off and do 
 quests. Each expansion has 20 (I think) main story missions, and hundreds of mini quests. The world 
 seems pretty big to me, but I really haven't played WoW or LOTR so I can't compare them. After 
 you beat the game there is still plenty to do such as (dungeons, elite skills, pvp) . The level 
 cap is 20 and that doesn't take very long to get too. The result of a low cap makes a player use 
 his brain and think of new skill builds that would work in various situations in PvE and also PvP. 
 Another good thing about the cap is, is that it won't take you long to get the best armor and you 
 won't find problems with others being a much higher skill than you. Instead of grinding to lvl 
 you will be doing quests. While killing monsters will get you to 20 slowly quests will get you 
 there mucho faster.
  
  Hows PvP? - One of the best parts about this game is it's PvP aspects. You can create a PvP character 
 right off the bat if you want and have fun (although you won't have many of the skills you will 
 need) or you can go through the PvE part of the game and aquire most of the skills and haev a well 
 rounded character. A PvE character can do as much as a PvP character can, but the PvP characters 
 require no lvling and start off with good armor and weapons costing you nothing. If any, what expansions 
 should I get? - I started with Prophesies and then got Nightfall. I haven't played Factions yet. 
 I would say to start with Propheisies.
  
  Whats Crafting like? - You collect crafting materials from items you find and that drop from monsters. 
 You can then take those items and have a npc create the object you want using those items.
  
  How would this game be for a new-player? (how many lower-level players are there?) - Even people 
 that have lvl 20 characters will create new characters play with. I have never had problems finding 
 a teamate even in the starting areas.
  
  Hows the Storyline? - It's okay. It's a cool idea to put a storyline into a mmorpg, but you won't 
 be just dying to hear the next part. The nightfall story is very good imo and a nice step up from 
 Prophesies.
  
  Good Community? - It's tons better than runescape. You won't find people using bots or cheating 
 systems since there isn't really even a reason to cheat. I like it.
  
  In summery there is no reason not to get this game. It's awesome for causual players, but there 
 is tons of stratigy that will keep you addicted and appeals to vets of other rpg games. Another 
 bonus is that the game is free to play online. I got my first copy for $30 and it's well worth 
 it.
  
  Hope that helps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zelda_mastaman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 16, 2007 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Great for people whether they have lots of time or just want to play 10 minutes before dinner
 
  Great weapons, combat system, plenty of skills
  Cons: Hard to get started
  
  This game is unlike anything else of its kind, and as for a comparason with WoW, they really aren't 
 comparable. This game gives you 6 core professions, which is plenty to do what you want when you 
 see the selections of skills. You get a secondary profession as well, so that lengthens the possibilities 
 even more. The combat system works very well, very straight forward. It is, however, very difficult 
 to get started playing. You have to do many quests to level up, because the quests give you very 
 little experience. People worry that you can beat the game too fast because you can only get to 
 level 20, but it takes a while. Even if you do, there is plenty to do, or you can start a new character. 
 Theres so much to do between quests, missions, fighting, and much more so I highly reccomend this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AdamSprague
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 15, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game and loved it... then branched out to the other side of things and tried WoW. 
 WoW was a different kind of game but I found Guild Wars a lot more fun.... quicker teleporting... a 
 small max level to put a strong emphasis on mixing and matching skills for different situations.... endless 
 character builds and an immersive story that is rivaled by few... one of the best games I've played 
 in my 20+ year gaming career.
  
  By now I've gone through the game with my friends, with my brother, and now with my girlfriend. 
 It's very accesible for all ages and types of people.
  
  BUY THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leethebobster
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  welcome to Guild Wars! A world called Tyria is in harmony... Execpt for the Charr and other races 
 out to destroy it. Hi im Lee Pavlak and im here to shoiw you how this game stands out next to WoW.
 
  gameplay: this game is a MMORPG. unlike WoW you only go to level 20 instead of 60 (or 70 now to 
 BC) . But you can have many guilds, alliance battles, HUGE PVP SCALE, and many more. but the best 
 thing its FREE online.
  Graphics: The graphics are STUNNING! youll be amazed how this game is!
  Sound: hearing monsters 
 scream and hearing swords hitting each other stands out in this game.
  Value: this game isnt as good as WoW because:
  1: not enough map space
  2: not as many players
 
  3: not as open as you might say.
  4: races
  reviwers tilt: this game is very good and will keep you playing untill you pass out. If your looking 
 for a fun MMORPG but dont wanna pay! play Guild wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizardmon5
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 7, 2007 5:09 pm PT
Review:  First let's get one thing straight. I was drawn to this game by one huge factor: There's no monthly 
 fee. I downright refuse to pay a monthly fee for any video game, but I wanted to try out the MMORPG 
 genre, so I went for this one. I was not disappointed. I've played the demo of World of Warcraft, 
 and I wholeheartedly believe this game to be more fun.
  
  When you first start up the game, you customize your character. There are plenty of options available 
 to make your avatar look any way you want. (My latest character, for example, I made to look like 
 Leon Kennedy of Resident Evil fame. He looks incredibly close.)
  
  Then you pick your class. There are plenty to choose from, and every character actually picks up 
 a second class halfway soon into the game, so finding combinations that work well is a good bit 
 of fun, itself.
  
  When you first start actually playing, you're in a happy-looking place. Bright colors, trees, rivers... 
 It just makes you want to have a picnic. But instead you pick up quests from NPC scattered all 
 over the place. Some of them have you killing roving packs of monsters, some have you track down 
 people's lost pets, and some are a thing all their own (one requires you to go adventuring with 
 a partner, for example, which gives you a revival spell) .
  
  In doing quests, one of my very favorite features in this game becomes apparent: When you're out 
 doing missions and killing things, you're all alone, or just with your party. Kill stealing is 
 not a problem at all in this game, because there's nobody out there to steal your kills. I simply 
 loved that.
  
  Anyway, once you've gained a few levels, you can progress to the next part of the game (bit of 
 a spoiler here, if you want to stop reading, and if so, skip this paragraph) : Post-searing. When 
 you choose to go to the next part of the game, you will be treated to a movie, in which the Charr 
 (the main villains in the game) essentially destroy everything. What you're left with is a wasteland. 
 It's desolate, it's depressing, and it's fun to play in.
  
  
  Basically, if you're looking for a fun MMORPG, especially one that won't bankrupt you, this is 
 the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1Gigabyteofram
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 7, 2007 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is probabbly the best MMORPG i have played until today. ArenaNet has managed to create 
 a game's mechanics so complex, that even with a basic build you may finish the game, but by combining 
 different skills and equipment enhancements, you may create an uber character. This is probabbly 
 the only MMORPG that forces players to interact and cooperate with eachother, making every class 
 in the game (even if at first glace useless) useful.
  This game's programming is excellent, since i've managed to play this game with max options (but 
 no bloom) on a 1.3 CPU, 256 RAM and 64 MB graphics card, with now slowdowns or brakes (although 
 the loading time would rise sinfully) . If you are an RPG/Strategy game fan, this is a must-get. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxHammerFallxX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 6, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars starts out as an enjoyable experience. One of them first being the online play is FREE. 
 But make sure you have a wireless internet connection. The whole game is online, so you need the 
 internet****
  
  *STORYLINE*
  
  The storyline can be really interesting. You start out in a beautiful land that seems to stretch 
 out just for miles. Miles and miles of exploring. And then when you finally complete all these 
 missions you can pick up from simple folks in towns and in fields, you level up.. such as Final 
 Fantasy or any other RPG plays.
  You have your choice to pick any profession you want to be, whether it be the way of the Warrior, 
 Necromancer (controlling the dead) , Ranger (distant Bow &amp; Arrow attacker) , and a few more. 
 You have the choice to be any 2. Which can really help you out a lot. Especially the ability to 
 heal (Monk) .
  Once you have chosen the second profession you move onto the real story, where it takes place 2 
 years later in the same land but completely different! Everything was wiped out by the Charr who 
 are beasts who took over most of the lands. Actually al of the explorable areas. And It is your 
 duty, as well as everyone else online, to wipe the earth of these Charr and protect the civilization 
 on it.
  
  *GAMEPLAY*
  
  Gameplay works smoothly and simply. First off, there are thousands of people playing Guild Wars 
 at once, whether it be Prophecy, Factions or even Nightfall. You can have others join you online, 
 help you in quests, battle monsters with your online friends, and chat with them along the way. 
 There are explorable areas and there are towns where that is where you meet everyone and form your 
 team (If you even want one) . It is a nice way to meet people and find someone to help you if you 
 need it.
  
  The easy way about moving around is that you can simply click with the left button on the mouse, 
 to the spot you want to go to, and your character will automatically run to that spot. If you click 
 on an enemy, they will attack that enemy.
  With your profession (s) and leveling up you require new moves which you can get as well as leveling 
 up your attribute points such as strength, vitality, more of an ability to handle a sword, hammer, 
 axe, bow. You know how it works. You'll get also a sample of each power from each profession and 
 then finally decide which 2nd profession you would like to have. Rather have strength like a warrior 
 or heal your party like a monk? Choice is left up to you.
  It is a game that seriously has miles, probably the size of an area like New York STATE! And thats 
 just to explore! There is a lot to do in Guild Wars and a lot of fun to join the game battling 
 your friends even.
  
  *VALUE*
  
  High Value! The game is definetly worth getting and it is a game you will get addicted to and never 
 want to leave. Like you could be stuck playing all night. And it never felt so good. Playing the 
 game you love, with other people that love the same game and venture out there with you. Its all 
 fun, and you will always come back to playing it. Its impossible to hate this game. Clearly the 
 best online game out there especially thats free! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragonMancorada
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 5, 2007 12:30 pm PT
Review:  How can I describe Guild Wars? Well, for instance I can say that it's not for the simple-minded, 
 nor for the kewl Gamers . This game, simply put, is the perfection of Online Chess.
  Strategy is involved in everything you do when playing Guild Wars, ranging from building up your 
 Skillbar to choosing your Profession. (Your Profession is your Class.)
  
  Compare this to other main-stream MMORPGs, like World of Warcraft, and you will realize that Guild 
 Wars actually involves Role-playing, bar just killing everything that moves. (Quote from a friend 
 of mine.)
  
  There are times when you will feel a little bit lost, and luckily there are many friendly Guilds 
 out there that will be glad to help you find your way around the massive world of Tyria. You can 
 create a party and venture out in the wild, OR you can take your party and complete intense and 
 innovative missions; the choice is yours, or, so to say: The choice is your's. XD
  
  The enviroments are amazing, and the graphics are incredible considering the low system requirements.
 
  
  Now for what might be the absolutely best part of the game, the music! I have never heard such 
 an incredibly well-done orchestrated piece of art, ever! No fanboy-ism here, trust me. :P
  
  All-in-all, if you're going to start playing ANY MMORPG, pick this one! You won't be sorry! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dino316
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 1, 2007 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a pretty solid game if your newer to the MMO types on PC games. If your a hardcore 
 gamer, i would advise to stay away from it unfortunately.
  The actual gameplay and the story line are just subpar, and can get quite boring after a while. 
 The graphics are decent, while the sound is N/A ( yeah its pretty lame) . The fun parts of the game 
 are joining up with a Guild and doing such things as different guild battles at Pvp arenas and 
 such mini games. Thats really the only fun part of the game for me personally, and even that gets 
 really old, really fast.
  It is free to play online after you purchase the game, and there is now a few expansions with it, 
 so im hoping the game is a bit more polished and tuned out. There are better MMO's out there such 
 as WoW, which comparisons cant even be made with this game. But if your looking for a more medival, 
 old school, hack n slash, buddy game this may be for you. Just dont believe all the hype about 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 335678549
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 31, 2007 4:58 am PT
Review:  The Guild Wars series is currently my favourite series on the PC system. The gorgeous graphics 
 - even on my budget system, atmospheric and uplifting music and gripping, fun and innovative gameplay 
 make the series the best online rpg on the PC in my opinion.
  
  What you should know - Guild wars currently has three campaigns, Prophecies, Factions and the latest 
 Nighfall. In each Campaign there are a variety of fun and varied character types which you can 
 choose to play RPG style or PVP style. As an rpg character you begin at level 1 and take on exciting 
 missions and rewarding quests that chip away at the rich story and lore of the game and gain you 
 valuable experience on your way to level 20. As a pvp character you begin at max level which is 
 20 and you are unleashed into pvp battles and tournaments which you can enter alone, with a group 
 or with your guild. On both options you can create or join a Guild which have custom capes, guild 
 halls and tournaments.
  
  Best bits - Gorgeous and even breathtaking graphics on even low spec budget systems - Fantastic 
 soundtrack composed by Jeremy Soule - No monthly fees, with free rich content updates and maintenance 
 - Fantastic community enriches the experiences one of the main elements of the game the guilds. 
 :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zer0sil3nce
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Guild wars is an interesting game. You can either jump into PvP or RPGing. The RPG side has a long 
 story that spans through different environments and enemies. You start in a city, but once you 
 leave the city you go into your own little zone, you can even add some NPC henchmen to help you. 
 Your own little zone is good in some ways and bad in others. For one everythings there and theres 
 no one else to kill anything, but on the other hand it feels very single player. On the hand, if 
 you wish to dive into the PvP side, you are limited with some skills, which means you have to play 
 the RPG side to unlock the skills for the PvP side. But you can still jump into the PvP side and 
 start with the basic skills. You also get a secondary class, so you can be a ranger/warrior. So 
 it adds different kinds of playing styles. The graphics look great, and have lots of detail. Overall 
 there is alot of reply value and they are adding more content with expansion packs. Overall the 
 game is quite good, and there is alot of fun to be had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sataere73
Rating: 4.5
Date: May 13, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  I've tried to like this game, I honestly have. I've gotten frustrated with it, uninstalled it, 
 re-installed it and have given it several chances. At first I thought it was me. Maybe I'm not 
 doing this right. , I didn't try this, perhaps that's the difference. and Let me find a game guide 
 for advice from other players and see where I went wrong. were the phrases that swirled around 
 inside my head. But alas, it isn't the case.
  
  Graphics-wise, the game looks fine. The character models are easy on the eyes and are highly detailed. 
 They breathe, they look around when idle and they have some humorous emote commands. The landscapes 
 are also nice to look at, creepy catacombs, fertile farmlands, lush forests, chilling snow-capped 
 peaks, scorching deserts and desolate wastelands all look like they're supposed to and give you 
 the sense of being there. I have no complaints here.
  
  The same is true of the sounds. Battle sounds are vibrant, clashes of weapons on armor, the savage 
 utterances of enemies, the war cries of allies, the magical tones of spells. The music is also 
 just as it needs to be, adding to the surroundings without overpowering your senses. All sounds 
 are done well.
  
  Also there are some bonuses thrown in every once in a while. Major holidays, and some minor ones, 
 get some sort of treatment in game. On April Fool's Day your character (s) were switched to the 
 opposite gender. Guild Wars: Factions is based on an Asian-style setting, so Chinese New Year was 
 celebrated with a festival with special quests, mini-games and prizes. Your character (s) even get 
 special prizes on the anniversaries of their creation date (s) .
  
  Last but not least of the good points; free-to-play. Who can argue with free? Sure the game costs 
 upwards of $50 off the shelf, but no charge to play. A long time bone of contention for me with 
 pay-to-play games, You mean I have to buy it *and* rent it? . Isn't that like purchasing a music 
 CD, then having to pay royalties every time you listen to it? But I digress.
  
  That's where the good ends. The bad and the ugly follow from here on out. Some reviewers have complained 
 that only human characters are available. I'm not put off by this. This isn't D&amp; D after all, 
 so no orcs, no elves, no ogres or trolls or halflings or gnomes. This doesn't bother me overly 
 much. I like my RPG's to have loot... lots of loot, as I like to be able to continuously upgrade 
 and improve the characters I play. It seems the developers have gone out of their way to make Guild 
 Wars as loot-less as possible. Sure the low level monsters aren't going to drop a lot of gold. 
 No problem. But when you've got your eye on a higher damage weapon, or higher protecting armor, 
 that costs hundreds (or thousands) of gold pieces and you're barely surviving against foes dropping 
 10-20 gold at a time, that's taking grinding to a whole new art form. So, it's not a matter of 
 how much gold is needed, rather it's How many billions of these things do I have to kill to afford 
 what I want? . And of course you'll get to the point where you're not gaining any experience for 
 the monsters you kill after you level a few times. You can get weapons from loot drops, but chances 
 are whatever drops will be several levels less than what you're wielding. You could buy weapons 
 from other players, but I like to accomplish things on my own in games. Besides, if I wanted a 
 flea market simulation game, I'm sure I could find one. Ebay comes to mind.
  
  And that's just weapons. Armor is a whole other story, because, armor isn't a loot drop. Armor 
 is bought from smiths in towns and outposts that you come across in your travels. Ok, fine. The 
 only problem here is that you slog your way from one outpost to the next, through group upon group 
 of baddies, perhaps getting killed a few times in the process (death brings a penalty to your character 
 by taking a percentage off your maximum health and mana. First death is -15%, with a maximum of 
 -60% (if I remember right) . So, get killed four times, and you've lost over half your total health 
 and mana. Getting rid of the penalty is as easy as killing more monsters. Of course, if you thought 
 killing to get gold for that next weapon was hard, that was a cakewalk compared to canceling out 
 your death penalty, since there are probably not enough monsters on the map to erase a -60% death 
 penalty. You could return to a town to get it wiped out completely, but then you lose your progress 
 since all those creatures you killed respawn and you get to do it all over again.) . So, there you 
 are at the brink of death, pulling yourself into the friendly confines of a town. Gleefully running 
 to the armorer to upgrade, and the stuff he's selling is five armor points higher than what you've 
 got on, and triple the price. This is apparently somebody's idea of fun.
  
  While we're in town, let's discuss the one drawback to free-to-play gaming (aside from kids who 
 got mommy and daddy to buy the game for them so they can run around calling everyone n00bs ) . And 
 that drawback is lag. Your character's level caps out at 20, the lag monster's level cap is infinity. 
 My rig is a Pentium 4, 3.0 GHz, 2 gigs RAM and a 256MB ATI Radeon 9800 Pro with a DSL connection. 
 In town latency routinely spikes to 13,000 ms and framerates drop to 1 fps. Outside of towns, where 
 there is just a copy of the game world for me and my party, it gets better, a couple hundred ms 
 and 75 fps, unless of course I have to fight a battle, then it drags back down again, not as bad 
 as in town, but bad enough to make even the smallest skirmish a click and hope adventure. So a 
 game centered around battles, and the action slows to a crawl when a battle happens... not a good 
 sign. So in other words, when the lag sets in during a fight, Guild Wars is reduced to a game of 
 Windows Solitaire.
  
  Ahh, battles. A game with Wars in the title should have battles, right? And this one sure does. 
 When you run outside the protective walls of a town or outpost, you get your very own copy of the 
 game world to play in. No PKers, the only other characters out there, are the ones that you are 
 in a party with. This fact should actually go up into the good section of this review, except for 
 the fact that there is no way on God's green earth you're going to solo this game. You're either 
 going to have to hook up with complete strangers, have a friend (or friends) who also have this 
 game or fill out your party with hench (wo) men. Pick up groups are a necessary evil sometimes (and 
 the bane of MMORPG players everywhere) , having friends with the game is the best bet and the AI-controlled 
 NPC henchpeople are retards who will get you killed almost as often as if you were to solo. Of 
 course the other word in the game's title is Guild so you could always join or create a guild and 
 go adventuring together. But you never know what you're going to get. The game does do a decent 
 job dividing up the scant amount of loot, if you're in a group.
  
  Along with your weapon (which will never do enough damage) and your armor (which will never protect 
 you from enough damage) you get to take skills with you. And this isn't EQ or WoW where you have 
 2-3 skillbars full of skills/spells you can unleash at any time. Afraid not. You can take eight 
 at a time with you into the battlefields, and they cannot be changed until you go back to town. 
 I guess this is supposed to... I don't know what the hell, this is supposed to do. My nearest guess 
 is that it will encourage more party play, by making all the characters in your party equally mediocre, 
 while calling it complementing each other's abilities . If your character could do everything they 
 were capable of; use every skill in their arsenal, sling every spell in their book, you wouldn't 
 need to form a party. Which isn't necessarily true because even if you could take every skill/spell 
 with you, your mana reserves are limited since your maximum mana doesn't increase by leveling up, 
 only through equipping items. Plus, you get to dual-class your character, meaning if each class 
 you chose has 40 skills/spells, you get to use only 10% of those skills at any one time. So, it's 
 kind of like going commando while wearing pants that are three sizes too small liberating and confining 
 at the same time. Each skill is controlled by an attribute, and you get attribute points to increase 
 those attributes every time you level. And even though you can equip items that will give a bonus 
 to your attributes, you won't get enough attribute points to do anything well. Try to spread your 
 points out, and your character will be too weak (or even weaker than it already is, if that's possible) , 
 put all your points into one or two attributes, and you'll have to completely ignore certain areas 
 of your character's abilities/personality because the skills associated with the neglected attributes 
 will be worthless. Want a Warrior/Monk who can swing a high-damage sword/axe, get some armor penetration 
 with each hit, use a shield effectively and can do some healing on himself, or friends, in emergencies? 
 Too bad. How about a Ranger/Elementalist with good bow skills, a helpful animal companion, can 
 lay powerful traps for enemies and can add elemental damage to each shot? Look someplace else.
 
  
  But onto the battles themselves. What are they like? Ever stick your tongue in an electric pencil 
 sharpener? The battles in Guild Wars are not about fighting, they're about wisely using the skills 
 you've chosen to take with you, and that means clicking the right button at the right time, or 
 your adventure will be a short one. If you don't have the right skills for the situation, you'll 
 most likely die. If you don't use your skills effectively, you'll most likely die. If you have 
 the right skills *and* use them effectively, you have a coin's flip chance of surviving. Unless 
 of course, during your current battle three groups of enemies happen to wander by and aggro on 
 you. Then you're going to die. Apparently character death must've tested rather high in the game 
 developer's focus groups as a fun way to spend a gaming session, because your character will die... a 
 lot. In fact, there's a handy little command to tell you just how many times your character has 
 eaten it.
  
  But getting back to skills, as they are so important to your character's survival. Most of the 
 descriptions for these skills sound like drug commercials, in that in order to cure whatever ailment 
 you have, you may experience some rather unpleasant or disturbing side-effects (dry mouth, itchy 
 eyes, rectal oozing, heart attack, stroke, momentary blindness, etc.) . So in the case of Guild 
 Wars , a skill may improve one aspect of your character, while leaving another aspect completely 
 vulnerable, and wouldn't you know it, your computer-controlled enemies have just the skill that 
 exploits your skill-enhanced weakness while protecting them from your skill-enhanced strength, 
 and they just happen to use it at all the right times. This is what I meant by using your skills 
 effectively. Your NPC enemies will always do it better than you, until, of course, you gain the 
 reflexes of a computer. So, I may have misspoke a bit, the name of the game is using your skills 
 effectively... to counter whatever the NPC enemies are doing. You'll be able to see any skill that 
 the enemy you have targeted is trying to use, unfortunately, you won't be able to see what his 
 six friends are doing, and even if you could, there's no way you'd be able to counter it anyway.
 
  
  If you are hit with a life-draining skill. Sorry, no health potions or first aid kits. Only healing 
 skills, which either you have to take with you (taking up a precious skill slot) or hope your party's 
 healer notices that you're getting your face hacked off and need assistance. And even then, they 
 aren't a sure thing because they usually can't keep up with the drain. Running away doesn't do 
 much, because your enemies will chase you clear across the map, so if you want an ocean view when 
 you die, run to the beach and get slaughtered there. This game offers so many ways for your character 
 to die, that I think it was mis-titled. Guild Wars should have been named Face It, You're Not Gonna 
 Win... Thanks for the $50 . I'm all for challenge, but getting massacred after walking 20 paces 
 from an outpost is not challenging, it's frustrating to the point where you don't want to play 
 anymore. Even reaching the pinnacle of achievement, level 20, doesn't save you, since you can die 
 just as easily at the hands of a group of level 5 baddies as you can if you were level 10.
  
  Obviously, fun wasn't part of the game plan when Guild Wars was made, because just about every 
 aspect of the game takes what would have been fun and does the exact opposite. Guild Wars 2 was 
 recently announced, so maybe the game developers have learned from these hideous failures and will 
 address them. But I won't be the first in line on the release date to find out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orakk
Rating: 9
Date: May 12, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Now i have been playing this game for the very beginning and I can't say more than this: This game 
 is awesome. Thats it. Awesome. The only thing thats a little annoying is that the gameplay is limited. 
 You can't walk mountains. You can't jump. That's the only thing I don't i dont like about this 
 game. Or else it is awesome.
  
  The graphics are incrediblelaa! It is just so nice to look at. One time I were in a dungeun and 
 then when I saw a little hole in the wall iI could see snow mountains full of green trees full 
 of leaves. That is just soo much better than other MMORPG's for example World of Warcraft. Every 
 single item has it's own unique colour, look and abillities.
  
  It is pretty annoying that the level cap is only 20. It takes 5 days and you are there, but in 
 some way it is also really good because then you can start to join in on big missions that gives 
 you a lot of good weapons, shields and stuff and of course some gold a XP. You can also colour 
 your weapons and armor at will. If you would like a green armor for example, buy some green bottles 
 of colour and then you put it on an armor or weapon and what you can think of.
  
  I just want to warn you off one single thing. Do never and when I say never I mean NEVER just say 
 in the chat: Can someone give me 500 gold? This makes you very infamous. No one that heard you 
 say that will play with you. So NEVER do that.
  
  This game has a lot of good things and a very few bad things. So if you don't have it I can't say 
 more than this: GO OUT AND BUY IT NOW!
  
  Graphics: 10
  Gameplay: 8
  Sound: 9
  Overall: 9.0
  
  -Orakk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hughbado
Rating: 5.4
Date: May 11, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  It was my brother who went out at first and bought the game, now he is throughly entranced by it. 
 I cannot say the same though.
  
  When first loading up the game one thing is clear, the quality of the graphics is going to be excellent. 
 The character selection and creation screen displays some visual eyecandy. I was however a bit 
 dissapointed about the limitations of character creation, for example, there were no races also 
 height and many other things were very limited, you could'nt make such a diverse lot of characters 
 as you would hope. This becomes evident when first entering the world when everyone looks almost 
 identical.
  
  The controls were quite straight forward, the game centres around control by the mouse. This gives 
 the game a Neverwinter Nights style of gameplay. The spells and abilities in Guild Wars are plentiful 
 and displaying a wide range of effects, but the amount of armour and weapons available does get 
 quite frustrating. A great feature of Guild Wars is the ability to create guilds easily. These 
 guilds cost in-game resources and allow players to gather guild members and fight other guilds 
 to gain a higher place in the tables.
  
  The soundtrack is quite lush and entrancing but some of the skill sounds can get chewed up in large 
 combats. In-game movies could maybe be spiced up a little, but this is possibly a reflection of 
 linnear storyline. Although there is alot of twists minor conversations can get tiresome. The game 
 does get harder as you progress, but it comes to a stand still around level 20 were you cannot 
 really gain more experiance.
  
  The fact that Guild Wars is a free mmorpg is really what gives it it's appeal, this however means 
 that there is only space for 5 characters at a time. The other campaigns that you can buy seem 
 to fix some of the minor problems with the game but if you're going to fork out &pound;100 then 
 I suggest even going just for a year subscribition to World of Warcraft.
  
  Guilds Wars, from my point of view seems to be over rated and really should'nt be classed as an 
 rpg , there is very little roleplaying in it at all. The quality of the graphics does stand out 
 as one of the best features of the game. If you like constant battles with monsters then this is 
 the game for you.
  
  You people better appreciate the time I took to write this [I used my Nintendo DS browser] !!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigXow
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2007 11:50 am PT
Review:  absolutely amazing... addictive as hell... one of the best games i've ever played.
  i only have the first edition PROPHECIES... and its already great... i don't want to imagine how 
 NF ans Factions are... this is THE GAME for those who like online RPG's ( MMORPG ) ... with no fees.. 
 just buy and play... you can make friends find people from your own country... form a guild... 
 have an alliance with other guilds... and like every other RPG you can upgrade your armor waepons 
 and skills... lvl up and so... its the only game i know that mixes an online game with a non-online 
 game... it has a story line with missions that take you trough the story of Tyria ( prophecies 
 map ) and its online with side quests and so... its really a great game... worth buying and worth 
 playing for hours and hours... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfury0101
Rating: 8
Date: May 3, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars. A unique and fun game on many different levels. First off, the character creation, in 
 this game you are a human but can select from different classes.  
 Although some of these classes may sound familiar you will discover they are unique from most of 
 the other RPG classes. Now, the story, the story of Guild Wars takes place on the continent of Tyria. 
 The human kingdoms (specifically Ascalon) are fighting against the charr who are invading from 
 the north. One of the kingdoms (i am sorry i cant remember its name) already fell prey and now is 
 destroyed. Ascalon has the great northern wall to protect it. Im not going to spoil what happens 
 next. The cinematics after the missions you play in the games story are well done. There is voice 
 acting and a great story. Now for the graphics, this game as most before aims for realistic graphics 
 it nails it. The graphics are absolutely beautiful. So is the art and design of the enviorments 
 and buildings. There is also henchman for people who want to do quests without taking the time 
 to find a group. Which seems to be a major flaw in this great game, since you can only find people 
 in cites and mission areas the chat channels in them are filled with people trying to find groups. 
 Lastly, the skill system, in Guild Wars the skill system is truly unique, you can only have 8 skills 
 at a time equipped to your action bar, you can change skills in cities. This obviously adds a sense 
 of strategy to the table. I need to wrap this up so overall Guild Wars is a solid game with great 
 and new features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghost636363
Rating: 10
Date: May 1, 2007 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars Prophecies, Guild Wars Factions, Guild Wars Nightfall and soon to come Guild Wars Eye 
 of the North. I do realize that Guild Wars Two is being worked on at the moment, really I can't 
 wait! I was introduced to Guild Wars by a friend, and I was impressed by it graphics since it had 
 so low requirements. The Game Play was so easy to pick up; only took me about 5 min to figure out 
 the controls. The weapon detail compaired to other MMOs is equal or better than them. The Game 
 (unlike some other games) isn't sexist you can have an character guy or gal. The Lore of Guild 
 Wars is impressive; take Prophecies, you start out in Pre-searing Ascalon before the war got worse. 
 All the terrain is lush and growing, clean water flowing in the rivers and very little to worry 
 about. As soon as you choose to go further in hte Primary story you're move to Post-Sear Ascalon, 
 where all the ground is burnt, there is no grass.... it is all a barren waste land. Both Factions 
 and Nightfall get you more into the lore of Guild Wars but Prophecies is what started it all. I 
 have played a few MMOs but this one tops the list. Also unlike other MMOs where it is oly about 
 the story and leveling your character; Guild Wars is about the community, story, guilds, and just 
 enjoying your self. Who would want to get wasted after a hard days work and have all your friends 
 in game getting a laugh due to what your character is saying and doing?
  
  If your the older type of player who likes games for the characters; Guild Wars female characters 
 (mainly the female elementialist) are very beautiful. compared to other games, they look like a 
 normal people. The mssions is the game are really good, but you might get be stuck on one if you 
 don't know the right build to use, but no worries. Ask and you find that other players will throw 
 ideas at you. But, if it take six months to get to max level, hey that is way too hard. If it takes 
 one year to beat the game and it has no replay value, uhh no thanks Ill pass. Finally if you have 
 to pay monthly for a game you are going to quit, well... that is a waste of money.
  
  Must I say more? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkcellblack
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2007 4:40 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars was a cautious buy for me; infact, it took a year for me to finnaly hock up 30 bucks. 
 And when i did, i was confused aboutalot of things, but then again everyone is a noob at first, 
 then they aren't noobs anymore.
  
  Gameplay was awesomly unique and original, the skill system really set you up for a challenge of 
 straigic, logical comfrimations that really can decide that you win, or lose, the battle. And for 
 the first time ever, i feel that every class actually has a different purpose other than steal, 
 kill, farm.
  
  Graphics; for an MMO; Outstanding, some of the landscaped where beautiful and the shadows and water 
 really show thier true luster.
  
  Sound was also a good part, the fighting sound effects to the music to the grunting monsters, the 
 sound actually brings everything together.
  
  Value: Okay, its 30 dollars, and thats it, NO monthly fees, this game is financially acended from 
 heaven.
  
  Tilt: I love it, can't wait to play it later.
  
  Things i didn't like is how everyoe wanted thier own guild, and no one shows any followship so 
 its hard to find a soid group of players who really want to help new people, and do all the hard 
 stuff with experinced ones. And its a good thing that you get 'your own copy' of explorable areas, 
 but sometimes it gets really lonley. Armor is a bit difficult to get ahold of, or maybe other MMO's 
 make it too easy...
  
  ~DCB~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carnin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 22, 2007 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Guild war is one of the best mmorpg game I everplay accept for everquest and Wow. The graphic are 
 impressive gameplay its fun but it wont las u for a long time though because ur max lv is 20 and 
 there it not that many thing that u can do like wow but since it one payment and impressive game 
 play with hechmen and 6 different class and primary and secondary class like Necromancer/Monk but 
 Guild Wars is more a Rpg type that mmorpg type of game since everytime u get out of a city or town 
 u alone in ur own world and the world change like u move from Ascalon to old Ascalon then Yak Bend 
 and and froest plain I forgot the name then to Ring of fire and The desert but not the NightFall 
 desert though so I really recomended u to try this game and play it for fun for a while nad buy 
 next chapter and enjoy the game. Don`t forget why the game call Guild Wars because it have the best 
 Pvp action and PVe u create a char and start out at lv 20 and if u press j ucan customize armor 
 and everything for free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wisecrack57
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars, where do I begin? This game succeeds on so many levels it is hard to start explaining 
 it. The graphics are fantastic, they are lush and full of detail, you see the wind blowing the 
 trees and the grass you can see your reflection in the water. The graphics are nothing less then 
 stunning. The sound is great. You hear every clank of the sword and shield, you hear every whizzing 
 arrow you hear the heavy hammer. The sound quality is great. The gameplay is phenomenal. The tutorial, 
 which isnt a classic tutorial, it is more like a pre stage, does not seem to easy; and even in 
 pre searing (which is what it is called) there a lot to do, and you do not feel rushed to get on 
 with the game. Once you leave pre searing and go on to the real game, it gets a little more challenging. 
 Not grueling, but you just have to work for things. If you get tired of PvE (Player vs. Environment) 
 there is always PvP (Player vs. Player) . This is where Guild Wars truly shines, for the organization 
 of finding a team is great. Even new players will be able to easily jump into a game, Im not saying 
 theyll be good, but they can enter the game pretty easily. Here is the best part about this whole 
 series. There are no subscription fees. Yes, go head and read that again. There are no subscription 
 fees. Thats right; this is where Guild Wars breaks off from the typical MMORPG. You do not have 
 to pay a fee every month. It is free. Once you install the game on your computer you can play for 
 as long as you like without paying any fees. So, this game is invaluable because you can play it 
 for as long as you like without paying fees. I am now a Guild Wars veteran and have had the game 
 for almost since its release (I got it a couple months after) . So I have been playing for close 
 to two years now, and I still have not gotten bored from it. I have other games in the series Guild 
 Wars: Factions and Guild Wars: Nightfall, and once Guild Wars: Eye of the North and Guild Wars 
 2 come out I will surely get them. For this series is fantastic and is going to be running for 
 a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jonomatt
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 22, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  Guild wars prophesies is the first Game in a series of an action packed adventure, I have ever 
 only played the first one but I am hoping to get the rest of them later on! The game will keep 
 you sitting there on for hours! and with their every day update this loads of things you can do! 
 When my brother saw me enjoying it he asked if he could play! and because you can have up 2 4 chnaraters 
 i let him have 2! Its a brillant game and a masterpeice From ArenaNet And althoguh the game is 
 2 years old its ceranly my av game i've played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viva_La_Connor
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 18, 2007 7:46 am PT
Review:  In my opinion and i know this might upset people this is the best MMORPG to date, its got no monthly 
 fees yet it has weekly patchs and updates, it has festivals and holiday events, if you have all 
 campaigns like me it has a lot of professions to choose from with over 1000 skills to use with 
 them and tons of different armour sets to attire yourself. Well, i will start with the PvE, i know 
 this is Guild Wars, so i will try not to make any comments about the other campaigns if i do i 
 apologise in advance, this can last you a very, very long time i have been playing since the release 
 date and i still find this game very enjoyable the story is very immersive but it draws you into 
 at the right pace not to fast so you are just thinking wow, where am i and whats going on . I personally 
 knew what i was doing and why i was doing it at all times, you learn skills as you complete quests 
 (not all there isnt enough skills lol) so you really feel as though you get more powerful as you 
 travel around the beautiful world of Tyria. Missons have alot of replay value in them as they have 
 a Objective for the mission itself and a hidden bonus somewhere in the Mission which can be hard 
 to find at times and leads you to coming back and trying again.
  
  PvP, the PvP is probably the most fun thing about this game, testing builds on other players from 
 across the world, shooting arrows at a charging warrior whilst screaming WOOOOO down the chat log 
 its very reward experience this game is hard to talk about if you havent played it but i really 
 really would advise you to play this game if you like RPG games my lesson is over now so i have 
 to go lol i hope this review has been helpful XD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediMoogle
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 14, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  Many MMOs all play the same way. Is this is a bad thing? Not if you like that playstyle. But if 
 you don't, and you want to try an MMO, Guild Wars is for you.
  
  Guild Wars starts you off in a kingdom called Ascalon. Everything is happy and bright here, and 
 times are prosperous. You can go around learning skills for your profession, and skills for your 
 secondary profession. That's right, you get to pick two classes for your character. The drawback 
 is that each class has an attribute (such as a Necromancer's Soul Reaping) that is exclusive to 
 those who pick the class as their primary profession. Still, having a secondary profession can 
 do you no harm so you may as well take one. You'll probably end up regretting it if you don't.
 
  
  Once you've gotten your feet wet and learned a few things, your world gets turned upside down. 
 The beastlike Charr invade Ascalon and turn it into a scorched wasteland. The Ascalon you knew 
 is now just a memory. Where there were once green fields and lakes there are now blasted plains 
 and seas of tar. Now the game gets going. Now your enemies are more formidable opponents. You can't 
 fight them alone. And that's just fine, because you won't have to.
  
  While in cities and outposts, you can group together with other players to explore the world. Once 
 you leave these areas, you and your party are set in an instance . The world outside of cities 
 and outposts is all like this. Only you and your party will be in the world. This is nice for doing 
 quests because nobody will run up and steal what you need to get, or kill what you need to kill. 
 But, if you're getting beaten to a pulp by monsters, nobody is going to come along and save you.
 
  
  But have hope! You'll have a large variety of skills at your disposal if you travel with other 
 players. Since nearly everyone has two professions, its easy to adapt to the situation accordingly. 
 While inside a town or outpost, you can change your skills (you can have 8 equipped at a time) 
 and attributes. Attributes are stats that determine the strength of your skills. Such as a Mesmer's 
 Domination Magic attribute. The higher that is, the more powerful their Domination Magic skills 
 will be. The best part about attributes, though, is that you can change them to your heart's desire. 
 You can remove points from one attribute and put them into another. Essentially, there is no way 
 you can screw up your character in Guild Wars. This is definitely a nice feature.
  
  There are six classes to choose from in the original Guild Wars. There is the Warrior, a heavy 
 duty melee class that has plenty of health and defense to spare; the Ranger who wields a bow and 
 can tame beasts; the Elementalist, a mage who controls the elements and has large pools of energy 
 to cast spells with; the Monk, a spellcaster capable of dishing out holy damage but is more commonly 
 seen as the party's healer; the Mesmer, a unique spellcaster that can turn an enemy's energy against 
 them and create illusions to hinder foes; and the Necromancer, a practioner of magic that communes 
 with the dead and often sacrifices a portion of the caster's life energy for a greater benefit. 
 Each profession plays very differently and has uses. No matter what class you pick, there will 
 always be a party more than willing to welcome you into their group.
  
  The world of Guild Wars is mainly explored by completing unique quests called missions . Certain 
 outposts will allow you to begin these missions. In a mission, you must complete objectives to 
 advance the storyline of the game. Yes, you read that right. Guild Wars, much like many non-online 
 RPGs, has a storyline to it. By completing these missions, you'll move to new areas of the world 
 and receive lots of experience and other rewards along the way. Each mission also has a bonus objective 
 you can complete. It is often worth completing because it yields more experience and often other 
 rewards.
  
  On the subject of experience, Guild Wars is unique in that respect as well. The level cap is 20, 
 which is pretty low in comparison to other games of the genre. However, a player's ability to fight 
 and win battles is never determined by their level. In Guild Wars, your power depends entirely 
 on the skills your character has and the skill you have.
  
  One of the biggest features of Guild Wars is its player-versus-player portion. Possibly the biggest 
 PvP feature is the ability that guilds have to issue challenges to other guilds and have matches. 
 Hence the name Guild Wars . Joining a guild in this game is not just a good idea, it's absolutely 
 necessary if you want to enjoy the entire game. Guilds can compete in tournaments to make a name 
 for themselves. Guilds can also fight in the Hall of Heroes to hold favor from the gods for their 
 region's server (which would be America, Europe, Japan, etc.) . A guild also has their own hall 
 in which the members can practice PvP with each other and hire NPCs to sell goods and store items.
 
  
  There is plenty of PvP for those who do not wish to join a guild, however. Players can fight in 
 the Hall of Heroes on a team and still achieve the same end. The only difference is that no guild 
 will be recognized for the victory. There are also various Arenas in the game to allow random groupings 
 of players to fight each other. And there are the Team Arenas, where players can group up first 
 and then jump into the fight.
  
  By fighting in PvP battles, players can earn Balthazar faction points. These points allow them 
 to buy skills and items for characters created solely for PvP. There is a drawback, however. Roleplaying 
 characters can become considerably more powerful than PvP characters because the game's best items 
 cannot be bought with faction points. They must be found in the roleplaying world. Still, PvP characters 
 are good for giving players a feel for what that class will be like without them having to level 
 up and find items.
  
  To sum it up, Guild Wars is not your typical MMO. It does contain many of the things that people 
 enjoy in an MMO, but it also removes many of the flaws that people do not enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: komanko
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2007 3:20 am PT
Review:  I think that Guild Wars is one of the best MMORPG games ever and its can be even like WOW, its the 
 best in the Guild Wars series.
  The Gameplay is very good and the sound is cool, the money is worth the game and i think its worth 
 even more then this, thwe graphics are great and the game is long and hard as needed.
  i think that more people need to buy this game to make a better gameplay with more people!
  Not 
 only this this game worth more then wow and lengths more time its have a specific plot and much 
 more interesting then world of warcraft! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  Let me start by saying this is my first real MMORPG that I've played, so I'm not too sure how it 
 stacks up with the others out there. I do know however, that alot of people say it holds its own 
 against World Of Warcraft, which (unless you've been under a rock) has done quite well. If you're 
 fairly new to the world of MMO's (like me) then you should be quite pleased. I bought FF11 a few 
 years back and didn't enjoy it (which is weird since I love FF) , and so I canceled my account, 
 and wasn't able to get my money back. Guild Wars is great because it doesn't screw you over like 
 this. That's right, there are no monthly fees (unlike pretty much every other MMO out there) . Fresh 
 out of the box, you get your activation code, which allows you to create up to four characters, 
 with whom you can play separately. This is a treat, because if you make a character and end up 
 getting tired of playing with him/her, you can simply start again. Which brings me to the installation. 
 I was shocked to find the game only had 2 discs. You simply start up the installation, which shouldn't 
 take more than 15 minutes or so. Then, the game does a quick update, which was pleasantly fast 
 as well. And once you've installed the game, you won't need to put the CD in each time you wanna 
 play, since most of the game buffers in real time. You'll only see a loading screen when you enter 
 an area such as a town, which isn't much of a fuss since load times are extremely fast and stable, 
 and there's almost never any lag even with tons of characters on screen. Again I must compare this 
 to FF11: I spent a good 4 or 5 hours installing it, downloading the updates, and entering all my 
 information. With this, there's no worries about credit cards and stupid crap like that.
  Designing your character is pretty fun and simple. First you choose your profession (the character's 
 specialty) . While it's not the game's fault, it can be hard to decide which profession best suits 
 you. You can be a mighty warrior who's good with a sword, a seasoned ranger with the ability to 
 manipulate animals, a reliable monk (basically a white mage) , an elementalist who harnesses the 
 power of wind, water, fire, earth, a mesmer (who seems to be more about defensive magic) or my 
 favourite, the necromancer. Necromancers have the ability to raise the dead and have them fight 
 for them. They also use death and blood magic, which drains enemy health, and causes curses and 
 such.
  Later on, the player can also receive a second profession. The difference here is that the 2nd 
 profession usually isn't quite as powerful. But with some careful strategy, there are alot of good, 
 beneficial combos. For example, my character is primarily a necromancer, and casts spells from 
 a distance. His 2nd profession is a warrior, which allows for a nice balance between long-range 
 spells (which are good for getting the first strike on an enemy before they know you're there) 
 and melee attacks for when the enemy gets a bit too close. I also need to mention that the battle 
 system is fairly simple and not overwhelmingly complex. It's also in real time. At first, you'll 
 face enemies that aren't much of a challenge (getting ambushed by a lot of these weak enemies is 
 sometimes frustrating, since they may not be necessarily dangerous, but you are forced to fight 
 and kill each one, which doesn't give you much experience) , but later on you'll go against many 
 bigger and badder bad guys. At this point the battle system becomes a lot of fun, and it's fast, 
 exciting, and even a bit addictive.
  The game itself is made up of a lot of mini quests, which reward you with experience, treasure, 
 and gold coins. Aside from these, there are also primary quests (or missions, if you will) which 
 move the story along, and just like the smaller quests, you're usually fairly rewarded for doing 
 these deeds.
  If you need money, experience, or are looking for loot, you can also go around killing enemies 
 and picking up the stuff they drop (not ALL enemies drop stuff) . I thought some of this stuff was 
 cool because you can also gather materials like leather or steel. Gather enough, you can then go 
 to a weapon-smith, give him the materials, and he'll make you a special piece of armor for you. 
 The nice thing is, it only costs a small amount to do this, which is much cheaper than buying from 
 merchants.
  The game world of Tyria is fairly vast and fun to explore. Unfortunately you're not going to run 
 into other players since these areas are private. You'll only find NPC's outside, who give quests, 
 or sometimes just like to chat. However, if you have friends you can invite them to come with you. 
 It's a bit of a double edged sword, because you won't need to worry about other players taking 
 all your kills and picking up all the good loot and treasure. But on the other hand, these areas 
 sometimes seem too big and empty, and can be a chore to walk through. Fortunately, later in the 
 game, you are given a small team (or party) of NPC's, called henchmen . They will defend you from 
 danger, as well as provide backup when fighting tougher enemies. You can also give orders and tell 
 party members where to go with a mouse click. This can be effective for flanking and ambushing 
 groups of enemies. As the title suggests, the game is made up of guilds (basically clans) . You 
 can start a guild of your own, or join somebody else's. Guilds can take on special quests, and 
 also raise notoriety throughout the online world. I'm still fairly new to the game and I'm still 
 learning a few things, but it sounds interesting, and is a good way to get players together, as 
 well as make some friends. I've yet to join a guild and I've been wandering about solo, which is 
 fine for a while, but you'll learn that going alone will often get you killed. And again, the rural 
 areas (outside towns/outposts/etc) are so big and empty that it gets lonely without someone to 
 talk to.
  I've never played WOW but judging by the screenshots, the graphics aren't really mind blowing. 
 Guild Wars isn't either, by any means. But they do look fairly nice. And even though the world 
 is HUGE and has plenty of interesting landscapes to explore, it doesn't really suffer from much 
 of a performance hitch. The blooming and shadows look pretty nice, and you'll see plenty of brightly 
 colored (and some dark) characters everywhere. Once you start playing, the game runs as smooth 
 as butter. What's more, the game has many players running around, but I've yet to see any lag or 
 server slowdown.
  The one thing they could've done better is the audio (IMO anyway) . The musical score isn't really 
 that bad, but it doesn't stack up to say, TESIV: Oblivion. There isn't much voice acting (only in 
 cinematics) and you'll need to read ALOT of text. It's a bit tedious but it's tolerable. One thing 
 I find really cool is that the world sometimes parallels the real world. For example, I got this 
 game for Easter. When I signed up and began playing, people were running around finding chocolate 
 bunnies and easter eggs. I've also heard people say that during the holidays, it begins snowing 
 all over the world, and people get gifts and stuff. This is good for keeping players interested, 
 since (just like in the real world) we have something to look forward to. Personally I'm interested 
 to see what Halloween will be like.
  This brings me to the last point. I was always afraid to jump into an MMO since the menus seem 
 too complicated. Luckily, GW is extremely easy to navigate through. For example, if you press i 
 , you bring up the inventory. Or pressing m will show the map. Pressing these keys again will close 
 the windows, though you can have as many open as you wish while you're running around. This lets 
 you monitor stats, quests, and so on. This is great since everything is hot-keyed to your keyboard, 
 so you don't need to manually select each menu from the main menu . Menus and options aside, interacting 
 with other players is easy. Obviously you can just hang out and chat the way you would on an instant 
 messenger. You can also whisper to each other, which means you have a private conversation without 
 other people sticking their noses in your business. You can also recruit people to join your party, 
 or of course join theirs. I also like the trading system. You can of course go see merchants throughout 
 the world to buy and sell, but these can get expensive. If you wish, you can approach another player, 
 or they may approach you, looking to make an exchange. Some people are nice and will hand out free 
 stuff to beginners, but you can also sell stuff for gold, or trade for something that belongs to 
 the other person and vice versa. You'll frequently see players wandering around looking to buy 
 rare collectibles, and you'll often get a better deal than if you went to an NPC merchant. Some 
 will also be selling rare/powerful items that may be useless to them but valuable to you. Of course 
 (again, like in the real world) you'll come across the occasional player who tries to screw you 
 over in the deal, and are stingy with gold. Because of this it's good to shop around for the best 
 prices, and find someone who will pay the highest for your item (s) .
  All in all this is a great game for newcomers to the MMO world, since you can take as much time 
 as you need to get familiar with everything; if you stop playing for a long time, you won't need 
 to worry about paying a fee for a game you haven't played for a while. Starting the game is fast 
 too, so if you don't have much free time, you can pop in for a few minutes and then leave when 
 you need to. Some people even idle (remain logged in but be away from the computer) rather than 
 log in and out all the time. Overall I think the game should appeal to all sorts of players, and 
 it's easy to understand even if you have little experience in RPG's, whether they're offline OR 
 online. Even though fighting tons of enemies and going on countless fetch-quests (kill x amount 
 of enemies, deliver items, etc) the game will keep you interested because the world is huge and 
 fun to explore. There have also been a few expansion sets released which add even MORE content 
 to an already huge game. If you're an MMO n00b like me, I can't recommend a better game to begin 
 with. That is why I give it a 10 out of 10. So go out, buy a copy, make a character, and I'll see 
 you in Tyria! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartant3312
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 7, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  I got Guild Wars when i got my new crappy computer. at least it could run it. any way this game 
 is an awsome MMORPG. I particular liked the way you could branch off in your classes. Say your 
 a fire mage and you want to try some ice magic, you can toake away all your points from fire and 
 put it in ice. This gives you many possible ways to play the game so it never get old. The graphics 
 were fairly good. only problem was you could run through various objects such as a tent, bush, 
 occasional tree, and some more stuff. I loved the way that you get your own server to fight in 
 so people can't KS you and jack your money. all in all this is a fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunatic130
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 5, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. I've been playing for over a year and i got the expansions and it makes the 
 game very fun. The graphics own WoW. The gameplay owns. I played Guild Warz and WoW and when i 
 got the expansion burnng crusade for WoW i was lvl 60 and when i got to lvl 70 the game got really 
 boring all you could really do is get new armour ,raid, and PVP thats why i stoped paying 15$ a 
 mounth for wow i quit and now i only play guild warz.. NCsoft (publisher for guild wars) and ArenaNet 
 (Developer for guild wars) update the game very often. If your like me and WoW gets boring for 
 you i think you should bring your ass to any game retailer and buy friken GUILD WARS. GUILD WARS 
 KICKS ASS. guild wars player fo LIFE!!!
  I hope this review has changed your mind and that you should screw WoW and play guild wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaara378
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 3, 2007 12:25 pm PT
Review:  On April 26 of 2005, a revolutionary game hit shelves, while not as moving name wise as Warcraft 
 Guild Wars soon became a hit with its no subscription fee. GW is a game that will move you with 
 its lush sounds and background music, astonishing graphics, and deep story line. When first introduced 
 into the game you can build the following professions: A ripped Warrior, a sly Ranger, a graceful 
 Monk, a Sagely Elementalist, an overwhelming Mesmer, and a wicked Necromancer. Then you select 
 a gender, and then you customize your looks, and then name yourself. In GW Prophecies, there is 
 no tutorial so you learn by doing, but do not worry about people bothering you while learning, 
 because the quest areas are separate from town. After learning the basics you should have leveled 
 up, when you hit H it displays a list of attributes, like for example the rangers will read: 
 Wilderness Survival, Beast Mastery, Marksmanship etc. This is how you make yourself custom, when 
 you up an attribute it is physically changing to your character. As the name implies guilds can 
 be formed and people can join you in your guild. Overall Guild Wars is a game you must play to 
 be hooked as there is no way to fully understand the magnitude of this game by reading any review. 
 In addition, if you would like to contact me in the game my characters name is Fefnir Ayano of 
 the guild Netsavers Rock [mptm] . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foreverzero56
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 2, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is an exciting, original concept that works amazing with no monthly fee.
  I started playing Guild Wars at the advice of a few close friends. Not knowing what to expect, 
 I installed the game on my brand new laptop with the up most excitement....
  
  Over a year later I am still playing this amazing idea for an MMO. And while it has its setbacks, 
 it has constantly challenged the concept of what an MMO could be, especially one without a monthly 
 fee....
  
  The Guild Wars concept is unlike any other MMO out there. Instead of persistent and open worlds 
 where grinding is the key, Guild Wars throws you into a mission based environment, more similar 
 to Diablo's multi-player then a typical MMO. Fast paced combat is what this game is about, often 
 pitting you and your team of 3-7 other players against unseeingly endless hordes of enemies in 
 your parties own instance of the world. Having the instanced world means you never have to worry 
 about looting or kill stealing again. Everyone who is in range when an enemy dies, has the chance 
 of an item being dropped and assigned to them for a period of time. Money is also dropped and evenly 
 distributed from among the group, so its sure that everyone will get a fair cut, even if you are 
 just staying back and healing....
  
  Starting out in the huge world of Tyria is quite easy. You start by picking 1 of 6 classes (more 
 if you have the expansions) . You have your typical classes such as Warrior, Mage (better known 
 as Elementalist) , Necromancer, Ranger and Monk, and one non typical class called the Mesmer, who 
 is a sort of anti-other class, using hexes and spells to lower spell casting, melee damage, causing 
 spells to fizzle and so on....
  
  After selecting your character, you are sent through a series of easy starting quest in a beautiful 
 area in some of the best MMO graphics to date. The quest, albeit easy, serve as a great learning 
 tool for the lengthy game you are about to face....
  
  As time progresses, you will be able to pick a secondary class from any of the other 5 classes 
 available. While some classes work much better to compliment one another (such as Warrior and Monk 
 for heavy damage and self healing) each class combination will give you the chance to make hundreds 
 of possible combinations for skills....
  
  Speaking of skills, Guild Wars uses a unique idea of how it balances gameplay. Instead of the usual 
 use of 100's of skills that you can carry with you, you only pick 8 while you are in a town or 
 outpost before you enter an instanced zone. These 8 skills can be chosen from any combination of 
 unlocked skills between your primary and secondary professions, and serve as a template for hours 
 of thinking on an unlimited number of combinations. Each class also gets a primary bonus that helps 
 compliment the skills that fall under their skill trees, so it makes it important to think about 
 your layout before you enter battle....
  
  Unlike other games, this games lvl cap also stands at 20. Making sure to take away the feeling 
 of having to grind but also giving you a sense of completion when you reach the mark....
  
  The world of Guild Wars is massive, and promises hundreds of hours of gameplay to even the most 
 casual of gamers. Along the game you will be taken down the course of the story line that makes 
 up the world, and while it at times is a little corny with some poor voice acting and writing, 
 has a lot of depth to it that will give the most avid lore fans a lot to read and research.... 
 If lengthy story lines and massive amounts of player versus monster combat isn't your thing, don't 
 cast this game out of your wish list just yet. Guild Wars offers you a choice at the character 
 creation screen to make a character who is already lvl 20, with max armor and a set of simple skills. 
 With this character you can enter readily into the world of heavy Guild Wars pvp. What stands out 
 Guild Wars pvp over recent other titles pvp, is that Guild Wars is based on both the choices you 
 make and the skills you bring. No longer will you be destroyed simply by someone in elite armor 
 as everyone will be wearing comparable items. One drawback to this, is the pvp can be a little 
 frustrating to get into for brand new players. With the game containing so many skills, items and 
 weapons, it can be a little daunting to completely understand everything shooting over your head 
 while you are trying to learn your own skills in your bar. As you rack up your kills you earn fame, 
 which can be used to purchase more skills and weapon mods....
  
  There is also an interesting area called Heroes Ascent, which pits different regions of the world 
 in heavy 8v8 team combat. The teams compete through a series of matches until reaching the final 
 map, here up to 4 teams will battle for a prestigious, although short lived victory which is broadcast 
 around the world to everyone playing. Once the team has won, they will automatically start at the 
 last level and attempt to hold their honor for as long as possible....
  
  The one con of this game, is although the world is huge and there is tons to explore and will keep 
 you busy for quite a while, there really is no end game content. Once you have beaten all the areas, 
 gathered all the equipment and done what there is to do, there really isn't much more, and you 
 can find yourself burnt out of it very quickly. Luckily there are 2 other great additions to this 
 game, Guild Wars Factions and Guild Wars Nightfall which add heavily to the amount of content and 
 will keep you busy for a long time, even after you have finished this original installment....
 
  
  Guild Wars is an amazing game I would recommend to hard core gamers and casual gamers alike. I 
 would also recommend it to both people who like hard core pvp and those who like a much more story 
 based pve setting....
  
  Arena Net, although a new company in its own right, has done an amazing job showing the world what 
 you could do with a non monthly fee game. They took a chance on this series, and it payed off heavily 
 with over 3 million subscribers to all 3 current chapters. They also have done an amazing job showing 
 they care about their player base, doing constant updates, additions, bug fixes and amazing PR 
 at no additional cost. They have also shown that they can play with the big companies, offering 
 events every holiday and offering many special events every weekend for everyone to get involved 
 with. They have done a model job at showing what a gaming company should be like, and if they continue 
 this level of commitment to their games, will continue to produce high quality and highly addictive 
 games well into the future.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misha97
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2007 8:27 pm PT
Review:  Well Guild Wars a constant competetor with World of Warcraft, somehow World Of Warcraft is played 
 by more people. One good thing about guild wars is that it is free online play, no problems with 
 the monthley payments unlike WoW. Now GW has its ups and downs.
  
  The ups.....
  1. A new Challenge Is Wating, Always Waiting.
  2. No monthley Payments.
  3. You get to mix 
 your proffesions.
  4. U can buy henchies (for free) if you need help.
  5. The holiday stuff is AWESOME!!!! lets say its christmas... you can snowball fight and all the 
 cities are covered in snow and theres decorations etc. (only big cities like ascalon sponsor these 
 holidays)
  6. Cool character apperance.
  7. Way more character customizations than WoW. Ok Ok enough already now the downs......
  
  
 1. Let me see, Oh Bad replay value when you play you have to do the same stuff to win but, you 
 still can explore a lot.
  2. Like usual characters go inside eachother, you know what I mean
  3. You can't jump like in 
 WoW and climb hills but you can jump but nt to fall down or get on higher ground level.
  4. I cant think of anything else so if you read this review send a pm to me :D
  Now some other 
 things like the graphics beautiful beautiful.
  + the little intro movies and stuff are pretty fun to watch.
  I forgot 1 really bad thing that 
 is you cant play for strange races like the charr, stone summit dwarves, undead, you can only play 
 for humans !!!
  Ok I think that's it for now. Oh ya the music is annoying one thing over and over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the__vagrant
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 19, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  i have had this game for over a year now, and i still have as much playing it as if though it was 
 my first day. It does not require a ridiculous amount of time to master and have fun with, many 
 view this as a downside due to the level cap which is 20, but Guild Wars is perfect for what it 
 is, it has an amazing Player vs Player system, easy to find adventurers to party with and quest, 
 and is also free... it simply just doesn't get better then this. New upgrades are released for it 
 around every 6 to 8 months, which include 2 new professions and a whole lot of new skills and quests, 
 and of course new armors and weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  
  Great graphics I suppose well agenst World of Warcraft it is..
  A great RPG esxperince with hours and hours of Gameplay.
  A perfect big game with thousands of 
 quests and skills and tons of PVPing.
  Just a fun game to play when your bored or just to talk to people or trade or farm (kill things) 
 and sell items you have found. Get rich buy awesome armor win the game and then brag about it. 
 LIKE YOURS TRULY lol. wow... i'm a nerd. anyway the point i'm trying to make is even tho i don't 
 play anymore i dad 2 great years/ This game was amazing and i can guarentee u'll enjoy it alot. 
 =D
  
  The Bad
  
  Gameplay can become Repetetive over time.
  It is hard to find people to play with most of the time but thats why there is henchmen in the 
 game.
  It\'s too easy for people to scam you.
  Lacks in good music.
  
  Overall
  
  9.5!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChiaroMeratilo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 17, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  There are a lot of role playing games out there. Most of them are MMORPG s, which means Massively 
 Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game . We'll stick with the RPG abbreviation from now on, because 
 MMOPRG is a mouthful to say. Go on, say it.
  Nowadays, developers think they can just slap on a few names, pick one innovative feature and voila! 
 They have a RPG. Guild Wars tries to avoid that formula. In fact, the developers call it a CORPG 
 for Competitive/Co-operative Role Playing Game .
  Let me explain the game. You start off by picking your profession (a 'class' for those of you who 
 play DnD) from a list of six: a Mesmer, which interrupts spells, and has the most complex spells, 
 an Elementalist, the classic 'Mage' character, a Warrior, the physical damage dealers of the game, 
 a Monk, the healer character, a Ranger, which is the nature character, and a Necromancer, which 
 raises dead corpses into minions that do their bidding, among other things.
  You can pick one profession from the start, and after about ten minutes in you can pick your secondary 
 profession, basically another profession that complements your first profession. Your first profession 
 chooses how your character looks, while the second profession gives you more spell options.
  You start off in Ascalon City, but eventually you can travel across the continent and visit places 
 like Lion's Arch or Droknar's Forge. Each time you visit a town, you can teleport to it at any 
 time, instead of walking back.
  Most classes use energy to cast spells, but the Warrior uses both energy and adrenaline. Basically, 
 some spells require you to kill a few enemies and gain adrenaline before you can use them. This 
 is a neat effect that helps the experience.
  There are over 300 spells in this game. You can buy them from traders or get them from quests. 
 There are two types of areas in the game: towns/outposts, where players group together and buy/sell 
 things, and explorable regions, where only you and your party are in. Each time you step into an 
 explorable region, you get your own private copy of the region. This prevents people coming in 
 and killing you at the start of the game, and reduces latency issues (your connection to the game 
 servers) .
  You can only have eight skills equipped at a time in an explorable region. This gives Guild Wars 
 a 'card game' feel. You choose your hand from a deck of skills. After spending an hour or two in 
 the game, you'll witness a big event that gets you going on your adventure. It's called the Searing 
 in the game. The game world is absolutely huge. I've spent eighty hours on the game so far, and 
 I've only seen thirty percent of the areas.
  Every now and then you'll come across a outpost area called a Mission . In these, you have a couple 
 of tasks. These missions usually take a half hour to do, but are worthwhile.
  Unlike other role playing games, where you pick up armor from enemies, in Guild Wars you pick up 
 the enemies' armor, salvage it with a salvage kit, and bring the materials to an armor dealer for 
 a piece of armor. You can also buy dyes and dye your armor a certain color.
  If you don't feel like playing with humans in an area, you can hire henchmen for you. You need 
 more than one character in a party to not die, and these henchmen help. They're basically AI players. 
 They're silent but they take some of the money you pick up.
  Another thing I've noticed is that when you kill an enemy, the game reserves the item for one player. 
 This prevents players fighting or racing for an item. I like the feature, but others don't, as 
 it takes longer to give someone an item they want.
  One negative thing I've notied about the game is the terrain. You cannot jump. This makes exploring 
 harder. You could be exploring for a quest and hit a wall without noticing.
  The whole experience of the game is slow and beautiful. The music is ambient and is very nice to 
 listen to while adventuring. Everyone looks different. I've never seen a duplicate of myself while 
 playing. The graphics are great. The bloom effects can be annoying every now and then, but the 
 amount of detail is astounding.
  The game deviates from other RPGs because it has no monthly fees. You can invest thirty dollars 
 into the game and go back to it whenever you want without the pressure of a monthly fee. The developers 
 get their revenue from releasing expansion packs twice a year.
  A big part of the game is the guilds feature. Players can create a guild, invite friends to the 
 guild, buy a cape, purchase a piece of land for the guild, and battle other guilds. You aren't 
 forced to join a guild, but it definitely helps the experience.
  Overall, Guild Wars is a role playing game worth trying if you want an immersive experience. And 
 with the fact that the original game costs thirty bucks, you don't lose much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taxpaying_Acorn
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 12, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is one of those games that keeps you coming back again and again. Much like Diablo 2. 
 You can play it for days on end, get tired of it, and find yourself coming back to it later.
  
  Graphics: The visuals in this game are very pretty. At the highest settings there is this soft 
 glow effect that makes the game seem like something out of a fantasy movie. Everything from armor 
 detail to the subtle swaying of the grass in the breeze are all very well done. 10 out of 10.
 
  
  Controls: Nothing out of the ordinary for an online RPG. The controls are responsive and easy to 
 use. My only gripe is the bad clipping in the explorable areas. For example, you approach a small 
 drop, such as a inclined hill or something. Your character won't always be able to run down these 
 places, but will instead stop as if running into a wall. Places like this happen often enough to 
 notice and it gets annoying at times. The explorable areas are pretty linear, too. You can't just 
 run off somewhere and explore. There seems to be a path you have to follow. 10 out of 10
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is very well done! Everything from the whistle of an arrow flying 
 through the air to the ambient chirp of birds in the background are all represented very fluidly 
 and clearly. 10 out of 10
  
  Gameplay: This is what makes or breaks a game. This will also depend on your tastes. This isn't 
 a typical MMO where there's heaps and heaps of things to do. Pretty much all there is, is PvP, 
 GvG, or going out on your own and killing monsters. So in the end this game boils down to PvP gameplay.
 
  
  But one of the most disappointing aspects of the game is the towns and outposts. Most every outpost 
 you come to, you'll have to sift through the literally hundreds of ads being spammed in the chat 
 window. There's no auction house system in this game (yet) so if you want to sell your goods, the 
 only real way is to just spam it and hope. They did implement a Search feature, however. This lets 
 you see parties that are going exploring or people that have an item to sell... but this feature 
 is far to limiting as of yet to be of extensive use. But it's a start.
  
  The difficulty in the game is variable depending on where you're taking the fight. It goes without 
 saying the end-game areas are the most difficult and will probably require a team of experienced 
 and coordinated players to achieve your objectives. But it's never so hard that it makes you frustrated 
 or turns you off to the point you don't want to play anymore. There's a lot of things that could 
 be done to improve the experience but it seems Anet isn't making any effort to fix the minor annoyances 
 that could make this game truly epic. 5 out of 10
  
  Overall: When it's all said and done Guild Wars is a very fun game that will keep you interested 
 for months - maybe years - to come. It's very fun to mix and match different professions and builds 
 and there's always something new to try with the combat. New chapters are released every six months 
 or so, and there's always new content and patches being released to keep the game up-to-date and 
 exciting. If you're looking for a quick and fun RPG to play online, I do believe Guild Wars would 
 be a smart game to choose. I've owned it since it's 2005 release and I've been playing it ever 
 since without regrets of purchasing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxtrot89
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 2, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  This game is nothing short of amazing. This game has it all, it has the interaction of an MMORPG 
 but it has the solitude of a stand alone RPG.
  
  Graphics 10/10: They graphics in the world are amazing. The characters render beautiful, and they 
 move and interact with the environment perfectly. The system requirements are low on this game 
 but the graphics are still spectacular.
  
  Sound 10/10: While I would go out on a limb and say that I think the sound could be better it still 
 complements the world perfectly.
  
  Gameplay 10/10: This is where the game struts its stuff. There is always something to do in this 
 game. Whether you are on a quest or just wondering the wilderness, you can always find something 
 to do. There are tons of quests to do, some yielding money, xp, items or skills. Also in the world 
 you will run into people called collectors who will trade useless junk you pick up off monsters 
 and give you cool stuff. The skills system is done very well... if you make a mistake you can fix 
 it bu spending buy-back points. These points literally let you buy-back a mistake you made while 
 leveling up.
  
  Character Customization is a big thing in MMORPGs and this is the only place where i say the game 
 has any fault... however they already announced that they will be fixing that in up and coming 
 expansions. By far the coolest thing about guild wars is being able to make your own guild cheap... 
 its only 100 gold. There are 6 professions to choose from. Each with there own unique abilities. 
 later in the game you can also adopt a second profession. There is a lot to be said about each 
 class... the easiest way to do it is... http://www. guildwars. com
  
  While in town you can interact with other people, chat, group up and then set out into the wild 
 to kill stuff. The world is not too overwhelming in size, but it is pretty darn big.
  
  This game is a must own for everyone who loves RPGs period... If liked games like morrowind or 
 any of the MMORPGs and are a fan of the fantasy setting this game is for you. And the best part 
 is; ONLINE PLAY IS FREE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 9469
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 24, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  This game has got everything that you want in an online role playing game. Firtly it has great 
 PvP (person verse person) gameplay. The best way to expirence this is to join aguild and get to 
 know a few people and fight in a GvG (Guild verse Guild) battle. Secondly there is lots to do in 
 the role playing part of the game, with lots of quests and big missions to do with friends, or 
 newly met people. This game how ever is not based on fighting lots and lots of monsters and npc 
 foes (PvE - Player verse Environment) . This can take a long time as you do not gain huge amounts 
 of exp (experience points) . The best and fastest way is to do missions which advance you through 
 the game and equip you with exp and skills. There are hundreds of skills that you can learn for 
 each of the character stlyes (Warrior, Ranger, Elementalist, Necromancer, Monk and last but not 
 least Mesmer) . Skill points and attributes can be incrased and decreased at any time, so if you 
 decide you are bored of hacking away with a hammer, then you can decrease your hammer points and 
 put them onto sword or axe points and equip the respective skills. This i think is a grate feature 
 because you dont have to start a new character when you decide you want to start using a different 
 weapon, and can change your style of play numerouse times.
  The graphics in this game are very decent, and some of the scenery is very well thaught out and 
 is draw dropping ( i find myself hitting prt scr very regulally!) .
  All in all if you want to start playing MMORPG's then this game is a grate one to pick up, its 
 free to play online, so you havn't got much to loose. Also if you have played MMORPG's before, 
 but dont want to have to pay then this will fill in the hole, and perform as a substitute.
  I definately think this game is worth buying, its got freat gameplay and looks gorgeouse and has 
 to stand alone expansions to go with it so there is endless supply of fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reya10276
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 20, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  Although I'm not a big role-playing gamer I can appreciate a good one when it comes along. Where 
 to begin there is so much to this game.
  
  
  It is solid and ever changing depending on what you are doing and it makes sense although the characters 
 can get a bit upset if you go back to them too often which is great because it shows the character 
 dynamics and how they change base on your actions (A. I) .
  
  
  Graphically the game is great not superb but good enough 
 to keep you in it. Some of the scenes are breath taking; just the amount of things on the screen 
 at once is incredible (you must have a top of the line graphics card) .
  
  
  Not the best part of it. What I mean by this is that they 
 should have added voices to the main characters in the story instead of having you read everything. 
 The music is the game is awesome some of the best I have heard in a long time.
  
  ***********Game Play****************
  The game play is fairly simply and easy to learn; hey if 
 a novice like me can do it, so can anyone, so if this is your first time at attempting to play 
 a role-playing game go for it. It is also easy to interact with other players and pretty much everything 
 in the world (might I point out it is Huge) . You can chat with anyone and invite other players 
 to join you on your quests or to form a Guild (Save your gold because is expensive) .
  
  ***********What Sucks***************
  The fact that when your chatting with people on your friends 
 list you have to see everyone else chatting in the game as well, that to me is horrible (I hate 
 it) .
  
  Over all the game is solid and has so much replay value which I don't know how I did not pick it 
 up when it first came out. I guess I was too busy playing console games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jc1232
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  ive been playin since about two months after it came out got all the expantion packs. the game 
 is smply fantstic. at the beginning its easy to make friends and get help when u need it. the game 
 is always updated to fix and add new things the graphics are great the storyline is good but some 
 are annoying this game is a game u can keep going back too for ever. you can join guilds which 
 make the game that much funner charicter creation is easy and rewarding once u get to lvl 20. the 
 chars are easy to learn and use to date ive played the game over 1,000 hours and plan on playing 
 for much longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luckythegreat
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  this game is just like world of warcraft, without the monly fee! it lets you go out on your own 
 with computer controlled people, or you can go out with a party of up to 8 people. it lets you 
 only equip 8 skills which makes you need to think and be strategic. the graphics on this game are 
 so good for a mmorpg way better than the cartooney looking world of warcraft. all in all this game 
 is just way fun. there are tons of quests and missions which are pretty hard especcially the bonus. 
 the pvp is really good especially gvg. all in all this game is really a good game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bradistheman711
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 16, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Ok ok its not as good as WOW. BUT it has caring customer support... you can't EVER GET BANNED... small 
 patches.... low glitches... LOADS VERY FAST..... FREE ONLINE ($60 for box) .
  
  There is great skills like cooking.... but its called GUILD WARS for a reason... to fight other people 
 and things .
  
  I just hate because its only 1.42 gigs it HOGS THE HECK out of your internet.... (most laggy are 
 from the internet)
  
  But hey at least its not another famous failure from blizzard....
  
  So if your low on cash and tend to swear a bit and play for hours on end.... i would get it.
 
  
  Its up to YOU to decide if you like it or not... If i were you rent it and see...
  
  I have been playing it for over a year and i am still faninated to how much i still have 2 learn. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pendragon613
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 14, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars was the first MMORPG (Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game) I played and its 
 a great way to introduce people to MMORPGs. The graphics are beautiful, much better than WoW's 
 (World of Warcraft's) graphics and better than most other popular PC games. It has a very immersive 
 storyline that will make you want to keep playing just to find out what happens. The big thing 
 about this game is that there is no monthly fee. If you play, or have even researched MMORPGs you 
 probably know that almost every one worth playing has a monthly fee (usually $10-$15 per month) . 
 However, Guild Wars requires no monthly fee, which is great for gamers on a budget. Since there 
 is no monthly fee for Guild Wars the main part of the game is much smaller than in most MMORPGs 
 and the level cap is 20 which you'll reach after about 2/3 of the game. However in no way is Guild 
 Wars a short game. Just the main part of the game will last you twice as long as any normal game 
 and there are sidequests, guilds, and PvP to do even after you complete the main part, which will 
 double the already long time you've been playing this game. However, people used to playing WoW 
 or another popular MMORPG might feel like this game is just barely an MMORPG. And they're not completely 
 wrong. You can only meet other players inside towns and outposts and you must form a party before 
 going out to fight or do quests (if you want to work with other players) . You will see no other 
 players but yourself, your henchmen (computer controlled party members) and your real party members 
 in the non-town/non-outpost areas, which is where all the fighting (excluding PvP) , and most of 
 the quests take place. Also, after completing all 25 missions there is almost nothing to do in 
 the main area of the game, and you'll probably move to the PvP part of the game. However the main 
 part of the game has a lot of replay value so you can always create a new character, with a new 
 class and start over (you get four character slots, or more if you pay a fee) . The Guild Wars community 
 (although always changing) is usually pretty mature. And if you do happen to find someone that's 
 not exactly ready for online play there is a handy ignore function which will block all chat coming 
 from that player. Overall, anyone and everyone should get this game, especially people who want 
 to try out MMORPGs. Just beware, if you are used to MMORPGs like WoW this game is not the same 
 experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lev_six
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 5, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  Having played a countless number of games, I think that Guild Wars holds its own against some of 
 the most popular MMOs.
  
  I picked up Guild Wars a few days ago after nearly purchasing it several times over the past year. 
 There are zero monthly fees. When you purchase the game you've got a lifetime of free online gaming 
 built in. I've seen a lot of people argue that it's not a real MMO or that the no subscription 
 play is just the same concept as a multiplayer FPS. Dungeons and Dragons online, a 15$ a month 
 game, runs entirely on instancing and most people consider that to be an MMORPG (though not a spectacular 
 one) . There is no difference between the two in that aspect of the gameplay. Putting that entire 
 argument aside, I'll settle somewhere in the middle by saying that regardless of where you stand, 
 Guild Wars still FEELS like a regular MMORPG.
  
  Loot &amp; Characters
  -------------------------
  
  In regard to gear, it is on the simplistic side but it's efficient 
 and pleasurable. It's got a basic crafting system and a few other nice features. The characters 
 themselves don't have a ton of customization. At the same time, though, I've seen many other games 
 such as WOW that offer LESS customization than Guild Wars does. Given the usage of dye, various 
 resources, and other factors, I've actually seen less player clones in this game than in most others.
 
  
  Quests/grouping
  -----------------------
  
  The questing system itself is nothing new and similar to many other games. You have to deliver 
 things to certain people, kill certain mobs, gather certain objects, etc. There's nothing revolutionary. There 
 is one thing I really liked about the quests -- the map system. You can see where you're supposed 
 to go and then after you've met your objectives, it's clearly marked where you must return to. 
 This is a novel concept if you've played other MMO's. I can't tell you how much time I've wasted 
 running around like a moron trying to find who I'm supposed to turn the quest in to.
  
  As for grouping...
  
  If you don't want to waste a lot of time gathering a party made up of 
 real people, there's a great henchman system. It's an AI based system that works quite well. You 
 pick the professions (such as mage, warrior, ranger, etc) you'd like to bring along. The NPC's level 
 of experience is based upon your level and the area you're in. The AI behavior is pretty decent. 
 Considering the amount of time you can waste trying to get a solid group together in other games, 
 the capacity to solo in this game is probably the best I've ever seen, hands down. If you've only 
 got an hour of time to play, you won't spend 45 minutes trying to get a group set up, equipped, 
 and inside the instance. You can grab some henchman and get into combat within seconds. Value
 
  --------
  
  Once you've run all of the quests in the Guild Wars Prophecies there are two expansions that add 
 entirely new realms to the overall experience. You're going to get many memorable moments out of 
 GW. You could probably snag 100 hours of play out of this installment. This doesn't take into consideration 
 Guild Wars: Nightfall and GW: Factions. There's also an active PVP system that seems to appeal 
 to many of those types of players. I haven't scraped the surface of the content in this review, 
 but hopefully my review will assist you in deciding on whether or not to buy the game.
  
  Considering all of the other types of games out there that go for $50 and offer only 20 hrs or 
 less of play, Guild Wars is something you should go out and get now, no matter what type of genre 
 you generally prefer. Conclusion
  ----------------
  
  Even with all of the next-gen MMOs coming out, Guild Wars is worth keeping around. The option to 
 casually play without blowing 100+ dollars a yr on a subscription to maintain access is very appealing. 
 It's important to stress that this game's fun on its own and not just because of the saved cash. 
 It's a winner and not a game over.
  
  PS If World of Warcraft doesn't appeal to you, I see this as a great alternative. While the graphics 
 are becoming increasingly dated, I find them to be superior to WOW's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Intense
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 11, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of RPGs since the days of the SNES, and always wanted to try a MMORPG but simply 
 couldn't justify paying a monthly fee on top of the &pound;20 - &pound;40 paid in the first place. 
 As soon as I heard that this game was massively multiplayer online without the usualy subscription 
 fees I instantly bought it. So, how good is it?
  
  Gameplay
  
  Probably the best part of Guild Wars is the ease of which someone could get started. For anyone 
 new to the world of online RPGs (as I was at the time) it's surprisingly easy to learn the basics. 
 It's a scary thought being thrown into a world where the word 'noob' gets thrown around constantly, 
 but within an hour you should be able to grasp the fundamentals of Guild Wars. While the gameplay 
 itself is good, there is a downside to it - the community. For whatever reason anyone I asked for 
 help told me where to go, and joining a group of people for a quest was almost impossible for me 
 due to being a ranger (archer) , which aren't well received to put it mildly. Your best option when 
 starting out is to either be a monk or a warrior, as these two clesses are the only ones anyone 
 has any interest in. Because of the poor community I haven't yet been able to complete the game, 
 even though I've been in the final area for the better part of a year. I think I've asked to join 
 around 300 groups, of which 10 have accepted me so far.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics in Guild Wars aren't fantastic by any means, but from what I can tell the game was 
 designed with low-spec computers in mind. Even so, backgrounds look nice, characters (to me) look 
 stunning and despite literally hundreds of people in one area at one time the graphics never cause 
 slowdown either.
  
  Sound
  
  I personally wasn't impressed with the sound and music of Guild Wars, particularly the latter. 
 Music consists of generic orchestral pieces, and it seems as though no feeling was put in at all. 
 Nothing epic plays when you fight a battle, nothing soothing plays as you cross a field, it's just 
 the same bland half-dozen tracks repeated over and over.
  
  Value
  
  Well, who wouldn't be impressed with playing a MMORPG without ridiculously expensive montly fees? 
 &pound;20 these days gets you the game, and despite the poor community Guild Wars is an enjoyable 
 experience. However, I'm not totally satisfied with the money I paid due to the fact that it's 
 impossible for me to complete, but again that's down to the blasted community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverRao
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 11, 2007 5:20 am PT
Review:  Gameplay (9/10) - The gameplay of Guild Wars is very strategic based. You only have 8 skills to weild, 
 so you have to decide which ones based on your enemies and your teammates. You can buy skills at 
 a skill trainer. Also, there are hundreds of weapons to find and sell, and dozens of armor to buy 
 for your class. Classes are limited to only 5 however, and there are no races. Just human. The 
 game is also hard, so newbies to MMORPG's might have a hard time understanding the concepts. Finally, 
 the level cap is 20, which you get to not very far in the storyline. Graphics (9/10) - The graphics 
 are beautiful. You don't even need a very good video card for this. The shadings are nice, and 
 you can go to first person view to see the full beauty of the world.
  
  Sound (8/10) - The music is okay, but it kind of gets annoying after awhile. And repetitive.
  
 
  Value (10/10) - The story is extremely long, as you would expect from a roleplaying game. Furthermore, 
 you can do sidequests or farm for money. Lastly, there are fun PvP islands that put you up against 
 other players in different ways.
  
  Tilt (9/10) - Ultimately, this game is an enchanting experience and a must-buy. So, what are you 
 waiting for?!? Buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anatobia
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 10, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  In Guild Wars, you play as a hero from Ascalon, your typical fantasy province that's fallen on 
 hard times, thanks to relentless assaults from fearsome creatures called the charr. Ascalon seems 
 huge and wondrous as you begin to explore it and its outskirts. But it turns out to be literally 
 just a tiny portion of the richly detailed and shockingly gigantic world of Tyria, which you'll 
 explore during the course of an adventure that's truly epic. Meanwhile, the other half of the game 
 consists of competitive battles between teams of players, set in various types of arena events. 
 It's action packed, it's tactical, and it's sporting. It's definitely more involved than a pick-up-and-play 
 first-person shooter, but it's relatively easy to learn and certainly difficult to master. Unlike 
 many other online RPGs, which often take a lot of flak from their audiences for lacking a definitive 
 endgame, Guild Wars gives the impression that it was built with the endgame competition as a primary 
 concern. However, one of its big surprises is just how much noncompetitive content there is. Even 
 if you have no interest in player-versus-player battling whatsoever, Guild Wars will still provide 
 you with more than 100 hours of quality gameplay, which you can tackle either alone or together 
 with other players pretty much every step of the way 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_Hakked_WoW
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 8, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: gameplay in guildwars is unique by all standards. It has HUNDREDS of skills for EVERY 
 class (i think theres around 2k skills in total now) instead of farming for epic ph47 l00t, you 
 hunt for skills to increase your power. Fortunatly this doesnt take months of hardcore raiding 
 just for one skill
  
  Graphics: This mmo has some of THE BEST graphics i have ever seen in an mmo. Not only that, but 
 the strange thing is that i can run it perfectly on max settings on my relatively low range system
 
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is AWESOME ,it is one of two games i will keep the sound on nomatter 
 what.
  
  Difficulty: This chapter seems to have hit the nail on the head with difficulty.
  
  Learning 
 curve: This chapter has a steeper learning curve than nightfall. Ther's no hands on tutorial like 
 the other chapters, but its still easier than factions 
::::::

::::::
UserName: justlaracroft
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 1, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  I really haven't played this game but my friend keeps talking about it. She says that it's the 
 best game out there and she plays it every single day. She says you can also talk to people from 
 another country. I don't really know to much about this game but looking at the people's feedback 
 I think their money was well spent. I really haven't seen a bad review about this game so I think 
 I will buy this game soon. I can't really describe this game but looks like it is a good game. 
 Actually above is my friend's ratings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MogFromLeipzig
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 28, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  PvE
  
  Guild Wars (chapter 1) offers PvE content to keep the casual pve gamer busy for about half a year. 
 The missions are varied and there are challenging quests if you completed the main story. If you 
 achieved everything with one character you will want to start a second one and maybe even a third 
 or fourth. The battle experience strongly depends on the main class you choose. So the replay value 
 is big enough. Additionally you play with many different people - so you never really know what 
 to expect of a mission. (Actually you are not forced to play with real people - you can make an 
 NPC group, too)
  
  Compared to the other GW chapters, chapter one is the easiest. You level up slowly and reach the 
 max level after half the game. The difficulty raises slowly. In Factions and Nightfall (the newer 
 chapters) at least 80% of the game is high level content with high difficulty. Of course challenge 
 is nice but sometimes it gets really frustrating. So I would recommend starting with chapter 1.
 
  
  PvP
  
  You can dive into PvP right away but it is easier to start with PvE. Collect some skills while 
 playing through the story and become familiar with them.
  
  Guild Wars is probably the best PvP-RPG out there.
  You play 4vs4, 6vs6 or 8vs8 (and sometimes 
 12vs12) . So it is not too confusing. You can think of a real strategy and organize the team well.
 
  Each character can pick 8 skills out of several hundred. The skills you pick define your strategy. 
 It is not possible to find the right skills to deal enough damage AND be prepared against EVERYTHING 
 the opponent has to offer. There is no ultimate build. Thus the battles stays exciting.
  If you want a quick battle without much set-up you can start a battle in the Random Arena or the 
 4vs4 Arena.
  If you bring more time you can participate in a 6vs6 tournament.
  
  The third big PvP mode is GvG (Guild versus Guild) . Here you have a long term goal. You play various 
 battles against other guilds that can last up to half an hour. If you win your guild rank (=ladder 
 position) raises else it drops.
  A season usually lasts several month and the best guilds at the end of a season have the chance 
 to participate in a world championship.
  
  In GvG you try to defend your base, conquer the enemy's base and hold the flag point. You fight 
 on the isle of your guild or the isle of your opponent. The isles are different. Some have catapults, 
 some have teleporters, some have damaging ground or traps. On some isles it brings advantage to 
 split up, on some isles it is nearly impossible.
  You need knowledge, skill, a good strategy and a good build to be successful in GvG. (Or at least 
 one of your guild needs it and leads the others) In my opinion GvG is the most interesting PvP 
 mode.
  
  Graphics
  
  They are nice, not overwhelming but nice. If you consider the hardware GW can run on the graphics 
 are actually really good. I like the style, too. THe characters are beautiful and not too cartoony.
 
  The environment sometimes seems too big for the characters and even indoor areas seem like outdoor 
 because everything is huge.
  
  Sound
  
  Ok, but nothing special
  
  Gameplay
  
  You can actually do everything with the mouse and everything with the keyboard. Keys are configurable 
 of course. You can change the whole interface. So just adjust everything to your wishes.
  Then why only 8 Points out of ten?
  Well sometimes the NPCs are acting dumb or the developers 
 change some skills and kill your favorite build with it. And some minor issues...
  
  Nevertheless - it is a great game. Pay once (per chapter - 3 chapters available now) and play forever! 
 PvP or PvE (a perfect PvE character needs time, too.)
  
  How much you will love GW strongly depends on the people you are playing with. So make sure to 
 get a nice guild! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyoob
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 24, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is the game that WoW haters should play. It is hands down better, with a good story 
 line, great PvP and PvE gameplay, great community, phenominal graphics and sound, and a lasting 
 experience. It is rewarding, almost to the point where it is playeble as a second life. You can 
 sell yourself to other players and get what you want sooner or later. It is very well paced, only 
 breifly making you level up before continuing a few times (which is a concept that I cannot stand) . 
 Graphics give the player a character that actually looks like a hero, unlike WoW where your character 
 looks like a low-res, low poly-count model from the game Warcraft III. Your character will grow 
 in strength and adaptability, being able to eventually take on a multitude of situations and succeed 
 in all of them. In GW, gameplay, graphics and great sound come together to give the player a rich 
 PvP focused experience that is, as a gamer should expect, subscription free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElithKhan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 17, 2007 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Putting aside WoW which most people will say is the best MMORPG around, Guild Wars is a well made 
 and user friendly game that will apeal to most people. Also what attracts alot of people to this 
 over other MMORPG's is that its free to play, obviously you have to buy the game and still pay 
 your internet fees but outwith that its free.
  
  Graphically the game looks brilliant, the effects when you cast spells, how the people look in 
 the game the detail in the armour and weapons and the water and its reflections look ace.
  
  The sound in the game is pretty good, it offers nice background music that doesnt get to the 
 stage where youd wrather tear your ears off your head than listen to it again, which is always 
 a good thing but it wold have been nice if it varied for when you got into a fight.
  
  The system Arenanet came up with, where instead of having to shut everything down for a day to 
 patch things like WoW the updates are constantly streamed to you as you play and if a certain area 
 has been updated when you go to enter it will load those updates in on a load screen.
  
  I have never really had any real problem with lag on Guild Wars and the game is extremely stable, 
 only once since the game has been released has it crashed and the problem was fixed in around an 
 hour, if you ask me thats pretty impressive for such a large game, holding so many people.
  
  The team system has been improved as the last update and now finding a party is easier, before 
 you had to stand in an outpost and put the whole LFG for blah now a system has been introduced 
 where you can state your class what you are looking to do in the area you are in and if someone 
 else is looking to do that you can invite them or ask them to invite you.
  
  Also another system that has been brought in is if you get an error or you crash, loose your internet 
 connection whatever, if you log back in within ten minutes of this happening you will appear back 
 where you were.
  
  Guild Wars was the first MMORPG i ever played and i played since release date and im still playing 
 now two updates later and all and it still offers the same good quaility of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkarFace7331
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 16, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  Well... what can I say... I love this game, been playing it since it was out on the stores, and even 
 before it was out I played on the beta (that wasnt this good) . So basicly: Gameplay- Its real smooth, 
 control it with the WASD keys and such. I think the best thing in the gameplay is that in mostly 
 other MMORPGs u press the mouse button and just stick there using 1,2,3,4, etc... well in this game 
 its mostly the same, BUT it is better, I really dont know how to explain but its more intense... 
 Plus there are no health potions so rellying on ur skills is the online way to survive. Graphics- 
 Real nice graphics, these graphics, mostly like Ragnarok online and such HAVE a style, so they 
 will never (not really never) get outdated. Cool efects, bla bla bla bla... Sound- Nice sound, 
 musics are good, sound efects are great (Sound is inportante but I dont really give it much concern) 
 Value- With a new expacion every like....4 moths, and TOONS of very nice PvP u will have lots of 
 time in this game and will still beg for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rayk3400
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 13, 2007 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a very fun and addicting MMO, But sometimes can get repetitive. I really don't like 
 that the level cap is 20. My favorite part about MMO's is leveling up and upgrading, but the cap 
 is 20 so you can't really look forward to leveling up. Also I don't like how you can only find 
 people in towns and outposts. This game isnt really solo explorable, you cant really go out and 
 kill without having a team. Every time you want to do something you have to sit in an outpost and 
 form a team. This game doesnt have that same feeling as WoW or EQ2 does. Guild Wars feels limited. 
 Some things I do like about this game are, the graphics are almost perfect, the guilds and guild 
 halls are a lot of fun, some of the areas look really nice, and the PVP is good also. This game 
 is a lot of fun, theres a lot to do and see, but once youre a vet there really isnt anything 
 to do but the same farms over and over. This game offers like a good 6 months of gameplay, after 
 that its the same thing over ... and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocolith
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 13, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  This is an awesome game with great graphics, gives a bunch of stuff to how u want to play (solo, 
 partyin, pvp) I honestly think this game is better than WoW (now feel free to send me hate messages) 
 The game has a great gameplay with a lot of helpful people to aid with quests. There is a number 
 of options you get with just buying 1 game and you get even more if you buy another from the sereis, 
 like 2 more character slots, new equipment, new secondary proffesions, and a whole new continent. The 
 path through the game is very linier and helpful, allowing u to get through the story without being 
 lost. If u like MMORPG's, get this game, and best of all, no fees after purchase!
  &gt; D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zakuhaku
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 11, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is only MMO in towns and outposts. When you exit a town to do a mission or quest or just 
 to explore you may only may only bring along up to eight players and/or computer controlled henchman. 
 Making the game only partly MMO makes the game more fun. This is because you need to use strategy 
 to decide which types of characters to bring along. For example a great party for a basic mission 
 party is two warriors, two elementalists, two necromancers, and most importantly two monks (to 
 heal and resurrect) . Another good thing about this game is that you are only allowed to bring eight 
 skills along with you. You must use strategy to decide which skills to bring. The graphics in this 
 game are beautiful and this is my favorite game up to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGremp
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 8, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Guild wars can be fun, and it has some interesting skills and a pretty intense PvP mode, but can 
 get boring real easy, real quick.
  
  The combat is sort of slow, but still fun because of strategic things you can use, such as area 
 attacks and spells that cause stuff like poison or health degeneration. It can get boring sometimes, 
 but you always seem to enjoy it every time.
  
  One problem that always shows up is a lack of variety for what people look like. When you start 
 your game, you will have the same armor as everyone else with that class, and the only difference 
 you can make is the color of armor. After a while, you can buy new armor, but you run into the 
 same problem, everyone else has your armor. Within your first month of playing, you will most likely 
 find someone who looks exactly like you.
  
  But, the game still has some good elements to it. Teaming up with other people is a lot of fun, 
 this aspect of the game causes a lot of the replay value. Also, the classes are all interesting. 
 The Necromancers arent like any class in any other game. They can use the corpses of foes to make 
 their own minions, and can steal life from the opponent. The mesmers can cast all kinds of spells 
 on the enemy to do things like degenerate life, cause someone to lose health every time they attack, 
 and many other hexes. They also have an ability that is only there when mesmer is your primary 
 Profession called Fast Casting. This makes you cast skills faster than any other class in the game.
 
  
  Lastly, the PvP mode is fun and has a lot of team-work based elements in it, but classes from factions 
 and nightfall such as ritualist sometimes ruin it because theyre so overpowered. Theres a special 
 selection you can use that specializes your character for PvP combat, in this mode, you dont do 
 quests or missions, but just do PvP battles. It adds more variety and replay value.
  
  In the end, Guild Wars is fun, but doesnt last much longer than a few months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: io764
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 8, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Where to begin? Guild Wars is an amazing game in many ways:
  
  1. No monthly fees are required to play. You don't get a scaled-down version of the game (unlike 
 Runescape) ; this beauty was designed for no-fee online play -- take as long as you want to finish 
 quests, it's ok if life gets in the way and you can't play for a while. There's no pressure and 
 you don't lose any money with the clock ticking away. I love this feature about GW, but it would 
 take more than that for me to give it the rating that I am.
  
  2. Great graphics &amp; sound. seriously. take a look at the screenshots and you'll know what i 
 mean. the characters and different types of armor are simply gorgeous.
  
  3. No kill-stealing. Tired of other players stealing your drops, or lurkers waiting for you to 
 finish the job or get killed? it won't happen in GW; you don't lose any items if you die and all 
 drops are allocated so only the owner can pick them up. great system.
  
  4. Quick travel. if you follow the storyline, new places will be revealed to you and you can therafter 
 get there instantly via map travel . No time wasting plodding through explored areas just to get 
 to a town. 5. GUILD BATTLES! in GW, this is the highlight of PVP play. huge guilds slug it out 
 for supremacy in designated arenas. this is aside from the main game or storyline, so it comes 
 as a nice diversion or break from questing.
  
  6. you get 4 character slots per account. good for tweaking and trying new classes, especially 
 once you've beaten the game.
  
  7. the game is excellently balanced. if you can't do a particular quest, try a different approach, 
 strategy, spell mix, change party members, etc. you'll be surprised how sensitive the game is to 
 these changes.
  
  that said, there are a few things that could be improved (albeit minor) :
  
  1. easier way to 
 find other players in town needed, especially when trying to do a trade
  
  2. level cap of 20 is too low -- there are tons of lvl 20s around...
  
  3. map resolution can 
 be improved. more convenient when exploring on your own and for pathfinding.
  
  4. it can be tough financially, up to level 10 or so...
  
  all in all, Guild Wars is one of 
 the finest online RPGs ever designed, in my opinion. For you story buffs out there, the main plotline 
 is well written, and compelling; the game itself, very well designed, and the concept behind free 
 play -- spectacular. they deserve our support.
  
  check out Guild Wars, or its 2 sequels, Factions and Nightfall; you won't regret it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EE2lemmonhead
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 2, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  I personaly am addicted to this game, i got addicted when i past lvl 5, since then ive been playing 
 this, factions and nightfall nonstop. The gameplay is innovative, becuz in most games u have unlimited 
 skills but in guild wars u have 8 and thats it. This makes it hard to figure out which ones u should 
 put in. the graphics are amazing. thats all i can say is they are downright amazing. even turned 
 all the way down they look better than some games coming out now. Sound is ok, exceptive battle 
 sounds get a little repetitive, but the music sometimes gets really exciting in combat sometimes. 
 the pvp content is very fun although a lot of potential got lost when the maximum party size was 
 decided to be 8. it is constantly updated with bug fixes and new content, although rarely new content 
 and nvr new quests, for that u need to buy the latest expansion pack. its a great game, if youve 
 never tried it you can probably get it cheap off of ebay, i got it their for 15 bucks including 
 shipping and handling, or try it at a friends 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo1810
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 1, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars offers a different outlook on MMO's, and incorporates many next idea's in the world 
 of MMO. The henchman idea is a great innovation, and helps those who need to do quests quickly, 
 while the doubling up on professions is an excellent idea. The graphics, landscape, and storyline 
 are also superb, and the incorporation of the storyline is excellently done. The level aspect is 
 well done as well, the competition is based on the player's abilities, more so than on their level. 
 This is an excellent difference from the other MMO's and makes the PvP route, all the more fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sternenfuchs
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 29, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about Guild Wars I believed it to be just another one of the countless Online 
 games, just without monthly fees.
  After hearing mostly positive feedback, especially regarding its pvp content I decided to give 
 it a go myself.
  
  First off let me say that I really appreciated the color-printed and nicely written booklets that 
 come with the game which is something that unfortunatly is rare to be seen nowadays. They are infact 
 done in a quality that I am normally only used to from Blizzard and good old Bioware.
  
  What was on the disks themselves felt more like a fast-paced action game rather than the usual 
 MMoRPG formula.
  The thing that had me worried at first was the instanced areas because I feared that this might 
 take away from the feeling of immersing myself in an artificial fantasy world.
  However, the instanced areas actually work to the game's advantage because the single factor that 
 destroys the atmosphere of any Online RPG, being the playerbase itself can simply be ruled out 
 here. In the towns and outposts of the game you can just ignore the usual 80 % of social inepts 
 (yes Guild Wars is no different from other games in that department) , grab your team of like-minded 
 individuals, or better yet join one of the many guilds and play the game with them. That way you 
 can actually make sure that you play with decent people who won't destroy the game's marvellous 
 atmosphere for you.
  Being able to just rule out unlikeable folks out of your game entirely is what I specifically liked 
 about Guild Wars.
  
  With the level cap being 20 I believed Guild Wars to have very little grind to it and I was positively 
 surprised that it infact doesn't have a grind at all.
  Instead of killing the same monsters over and over you will instead get the bulk of your experience 
 from doing quests.
  The quests in Guild Wars are unlike other, similar games actually enjoyable. You will be doing 
 the main quests which even feature decently made cut-scenes to gain levels and more importantly 
 advance in the game's story line as well as unlocking more areas of the game's world.
  Also there is a countless amount of side-quests which include simply running from point A to point 
 B (and surviving the monsters in between) , doing escorts, running errands and sometimes killing 
 a certain boss monster. While the objectives aren't extremely variable even the side quests have 
 nicely told stories to them, sometimes even featuring scripted events which happen during or at 
 the end of the quest.
  While this approach is of course more linear and doesn't really classify Guild Wars as a consistant 
 world MMoRPG it doesn't have to because the interesting story-telling and variable side quests 
 actually do make it feel more immersive than most MMoRPGs.
  
  Like I said this game is action-packed and in a way it felt more like playing Diabo on Battlenet 
 rather than World of Warcraft.
  You see, in most online games the monsters are little more than walking experience points and you 
 will set out to slaughter these unfortunate critters in order to get them.
  In Guild Wars however, the monsters actually feel more like obstacles, standing between you and 
 your quest objective (and thus your exp) .
  After you have finished the game's tutorial you can forget the word aggro mob entirely because 
 when something is a monster it will be trying to kill you the moment it sees you. Since most of 
 the time monsters will attack you in organized packs, often even organized in classes such as healers 
 or casters the combat in Guild Wars actually feels refreshingly difficult and tactical where in 
 other Online RPG's the only possible cause of death is either lagspikes or simply being too low 
 level.
  Even the monster's AI is solid. They won't totally outsmart you but they'll know which party members 
 they should preferably attack first, scramble when getting hit by an area spell, even heal their 
 fellow monsters when they need it. Suffice to say the monsters in Guild Wars act smarter than some 
 of the parties I've seen and they certainly are better than just having monsters that walk around, 
 waiting to be slaughtered. Not only does combat feel much more interesting this way it also, believe 
 it or not provide some solid boot training for the game's pvp content.
  
  There is no doubt that a number of players will appreciate that Guild Wars doesn't force its pvp 
 content on players, however it still can be regarded as the other half of the game and fortunatly 
 it isn't even the endgame content.
  Where other games force you to go through their dull levelling phase before you get to the juicy 
 bits you will still be exploring the game's world long after you've hit the level cap for your 
 first toon. That way you can play the pvp portion of the game while still having a lot to look 
 forward to in the pve campaign.
  
  Being more of a random pvp player I specifically enjoyed the arena matches where you are tossed 
 together with some other random people, fighting against another team. This form of pvp feels rather 
 casual and you won't loose anything from being the underdog in a match. Actually this portion of 
 the pvp part felt more like playing one of the good, old online shooters where you are in it for 
 the fun and nothing else.
  If you are with a guild you can also engage in Guild vs Guild matches, featuring large maps and 
 even an interesting tactical layer through the inclusion of NPC characters that will guard your 
 homebase.
  There is also a ladder system which in all honesty I haven't quite figured out yet since like I 
 said I am more a friend of the casual pvp.
  
  Guild Wars is best not considered as an MMoRPG, no it actually is better than that. You will not 
 be wasting your time in an unimmersive, virtual world, killing the same old monsters over and over. 
 Instead you will get a solid story campaign that you can play with people you know and actually 
 like, ignoring all the other bastards or even play the game on your own most of the time if that 
 is what you like (and it would still be vastly enjoyable) , plain and simple pvp fun and a beautiful 
 (though apocalyptic) world to explore.
  Suffice to say I never got quite so much game for my money before and for that it is a great deal. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr4goN_PL
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 29, 2006 3:31 am PT
Review:  There are really few games rated so high as Guild Wars is. Hitting or passing the 9.0 score isn't 
 difficult, but hitting 9.5 is a class of it's own. Read on to know what has made Guild Wars so 
 near-perfect.
  
  Guild Wars is ArenaNet's first attempt to make a good MMO that could be very popular and interesting. 
 That attempt was amazingly successful. In time when I write this review, the number of GW players 
 has reached 3 millions in nearly 2 years (it's a half of what WoW did in 3 years) and their number 
 grows with every day.
  
  Guild Wars tells the story of a never-ending war between the two human nations (Ascalon to the east, 
 Kryta to the west) divided by a natural barrier of Shiverpeak Mountains controlled by the Dwarves 
 of Deldrimor. Occasionally, a new threat has grown to the north of Ascalon. The beastlike Charr 
 has found a way to bring the only protection of Ascalons - the Great Northern Wall. Their shaman 
 has called upon a magical firestorm that destroyed almost everything in Ascalon and burned the 
 ground to ashes. While the ruler of Ascalon -- King Adelbern -- wants to defend his homeland without 
 the protection of Krytans, his eldest son and heir to the throne -- Prince Rurik -- thinks about 
 uniting the two nations and taking offensive against the Charr.
  
  Guild Wars has a beautiful audio-visual presentation. Graphics are still one of the best ever made 
 and music composed by Jeremy Soule (awarded by MTV and Xfire by composing music to TES4) is enormous. 
 Gameplay rules on all fronts. There is a limit of party size on certain places in the game (ranging 
 from 2 in Pre-Searing to 8 in Crystal Desert and southern parts of Shiverpeaks) . You can have only 
 8 skills active at your skill bar and it makes the game even more challenging when it comes to 
 decide which skills should you take for another mission. There are 24 main missions on the continent 
 of Tyria, which push the storyline forward and tons of side quests which you can complete whenever 
 you want. Each story mission has two objectives: the main one that leads to mission's end, and 
 a bonus objective which scores you additional 1,000 of experience but don't give anything else) .
 
  
  There are six character classes that you can choose: the Warrior, the Ranger, the Monk, the Mesmer, 
 the Necromancer and the Elementalist. You must choose a secondary profession later ingame. This 
 makes the game more strategic. Your Warrior/Monk can kill most enemies using skills of his weapon 
 mastery (sword, axe, hammer) , provide additional damage to undead creatures (and typical mobs too, 
 of course) by Smiting Prayers skills and effectively heal himself and his teammates using healing 
 spells et cetera, et cetera. If you ever feel bored by playing player vs. enviroment mode, you 
 can easily switch to PvP mode by entering the Battle Isles. You can practice against bots in Zaishen 
 Challenge and Zaishen Elite maps or fight for fame and glory of yourself or your guild in Heroes' 
 Ascent and Guild vs Guild battles. Yes, I said guild battles, because what's a Guild Wars without 
 a guild?
  
  You can form new or join to existing guild. Each guild must have its emblem (shown as a cape on 
 your back) and hall. It is Guild Hall where you fight each other. Guild Halls are expandable by 
 usage of Guild Lord (you can have all the services of any major city in one place) .
  
  I recommend you play Guild Wars even if you hate the MMORPG genre. It would surely change your 
 mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mackattacka
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 26, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  But after a while, it just began to suck my interest away. The fact that you have no multiplayer 
 outside of towns, it bugs me. It makes me feel lonely, as if I'm the only one playing the game. 
 The PvP isn't as great as everybody makes it sound. It can be fun, but it's also usually unbalanced. 
 The game itself, had quite a few things to do, but honestly, there wasn't a wide range of weapons 
 and armor. It seemed like the armor went by what level you were. Therefore there wasn't really 
 much, maybe at most two sets per level. The graphics are great, and some of the creatures you fight 
 are pretty cool to fight. But the fact that this game doesn't give that edge like I expected it 
 to, doesn't appeal to me. But this game has no monthly fee, which is a pretty hard thing to come 
 over in these days.
  
  But if this game did have a monthly fee, it wouldn't be worth even 10 bucks a month. I don't believe 
 this game makes a stand against MMO's today, even though it may hold its own as a free multiplayer 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armundus
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 26, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  After reading some of the other reviews ive notices that some people just dont get the point of 
 this game. Ok sure, it does have the lvl 20 maximum on a carracter and only allowd to take 8 skills 
 to the quest or a mission but that makes it just interresting. The limited skills make you really 
 think on what is the best skill for the current given quest to take with you. PvE (or player vs 
 envoyerment) and the main storryline is great. At the start you are just like a adventurer, but 
 while doing the missions you actually discover the real plot of the story. In towns you can call 
 other people to join your quests. At first there are only 2 people in the party but when you advance 
 in the game there will be more from 4 to 6 to 8. Later on in the game you do see monsters that 
 are from
  lvl 20 - 30 which makes it harder, so u have to strategise youre moves with your team unless you 
 want to die and do the whole thing over again. PvP (or player vs. player) is really fun. You can 
 play in team arenas (in where you sellect your own party members) , random arenas (where you are 
 placed randomly in a group of 4) , and then there is the hall of heroes (heroes decent now?) in 
 where you must battle othere people in tournaments, from capture the relic (whitch is like a capture 
 the flag) or team battles. Its like a ladder battle in which at the end you win the Favour of the 
 Godds wich lets you go to a place called Underworld where you can find rare and excpencive items 
 (that is really hard) . GvG (or guild vs guild) is almost the same as PvP but in which you battle 
 alongside your guildmembers (guild - is like a permanent team) to get the higest position in the 
 ladder. The game itself looks REALLY good and is constantly fixing itsself. So when a bug is reported 
 the creators of this game fix it up in couple of hours or in a day. The games music is the only 
 thing imo that is a bit lame. There should be more different types of it. Guild Wars has some festivals 
 in the game also, from christmass to halloween, in which there are some activities to try and items 
 to get. In my opinion Guild Wars is one of the BEST MMORPG games out there and taking that there 
 aint a monthly subscription fee you Must have this game or atleast try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brood_aliance
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 25, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  PROS:
  Very good value. Free online play. I'd rather pay $60 for a expansion pack every 6 months than 
 pay $75 for 6 months of online play.
  The graphics are pretty good.
  The sound is pretty good.
  Very well done missions.
  The professions are awesome. Very big 
 variety. Not just your normal wizard, warrior, dwarf, and elf.
  There are so many skills.
  
  CONS:
  The camera, in my opinion, was quite bad (5/10) . I couldn't see what I was attacking. 
 OVERALL:
  This game is very good. Everything you would want in a MMORPG. The only problem was the camera 
 which ruined the combat part. Otherwise, no problems at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orb_03_2006
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 23, 2006 1:33 pm PT
Review:  you know, I like this game a lot. the graphics are pretty kick ass. the sound is actually not that 
 bad. the GREATEST thing about this game is that it's FREE! you don't have pay to play it online. 
 the MAJOR flaw in the game was that it kept freezing up ever 10-15 minutes. that really pissed 
 me off. but this game was really good. i don't play it anymore because i did'nt update the game 
 and all that stuff. and there is a very large landscape to run around and to kill people/things 
 in. the game was a little for me to figure out, but I got the hang of it. if it confuses you at 
 first, you'll get the hang of it in about 15-20 minutes. this game is still worth playing even 
 though there are some major flaws in it, but you should go out and get this game some time soon! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: col01
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 21, 2006 5:43 am PT
Review:  Well, I have finally succumbed to guildwars having passed it up in the shops for an age. GAME had 
 it on offer for &pound;9 (can you believe that) so it wasn't too much to loose so I thought I would 
 give it a go... that was in September its now a few days before Christmas and Iv'e been playing 
 it every day... I'm totally hooked I now have Factions and Nightfall as well. so I travel the continents 
 quite a bit exploring. What I like about the game is all the variable ways of playing. Iv'e always 
 liked adventures and RPG's so theres more there to explore than i imagined. almost 4 months of 
 play and I have just reached 80% exploration and I have another two continents to go yet. I could 
 be here for years... I got Factions from Tesco in Jersey for &pound;15 and Nightfall off Amazon. co. uk 
 for &pound;17. so I saved &pound;48.97 from full retail, and worth every penny. Guildwars is without 
 doubt the best game I have ever played. The NCSoft team always seem to be adding stuff to the game, 
 special events etc... I wonder whats in store for the future... My only request for the game is 
 to increase the character level, as 20 is the max which makes the higher levels almost impossible, 
 as the enemy is anything from level 22 to 28? But perhaps thers something I'm missing? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greenfire
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 17, 2006 3:48 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun little MMORPG... for awhile. The 1st week or 2 is alot of fun but after that the game 
 just seems to be a grind-. The PvP is quite good, but unless you buy the later games (Factions 
 and nightfall) it is a bit limited. You dont have to have an outstanding computer for this game 
 to look great,
  the visuals and scenery are very well done. The games music is nothing special, I found my self 
 turning it off and listening to my own music. The sound affects for attacks sound good at firs 
 but get INCREDIBLY redundant and annoying.
  
  Bottom Line: Buy this game if your looking for an MMO with no subscription but it can get boring 
 and tedious but there is fun here you will just have to ignore some minor imperfections. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megabestia
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 14, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  Many players love this game and i agree with them because it's beatiful, incredible graphics, very 
 nice landscape and your good-looking character is a powerfull alter-ego that pushes you to improve 
 it.
  
  Also, if you've got friends online it becomes a very good experience; and of course is FREE to 
 play, so, if this is your first RPG, online or not, or you're tired of other kind of games and 
 want new experiences play it. You'll find interesting stuff here. Just if you're a begginer or 
 not very demaning regarding games and you look for easy entertainment.
  
  BUT if you've have already played any role game stay away. This game is not reallistic, don't allow 
 free movement, YOU CAN'T JUMP. Let's face it: my character can't jump? i can cast magic, summon 
 undead people but i can't jump. Great.
  
  Maybe this seems irrelevant, but the game is full of invisible barriers , i mean, you're in a hill 
 in front of your target, just going down you should reach it but you can't. Your character just 
 run against nothing and you have to find another way, the way the computer wants, not yours. As 
 you can't jump you can't go thru the mountains of other places, you have to go by the routes marked 
 by the game.
  
  What kind of world is this? you don't have freedom, you cannot go wherever you want. When you realize 
 that just in the first steps of the game you know something is wrong, and that's it, you'll find 
 many little facts than makes the game a step behind in rpg, mainly if be compare it with another 
 titles.
  
  There's no races and specializations are very poor, there's no variety in gameplay and all is a 
 straight-way to level 20, when the game stops, and, if you have friends online at least you'll 
 get good times, but if you play alone this is going to be very frustating.
  
  Anyway the graphics of the game are wonderful and the world is fantastic, a good point... maybe 
 the only good point, the technology makes up the gameplay, that's so poor you'll consider continue 
 playing after reaching level 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjagaijin10k
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 10, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  As far as single-player RPG's go, this was just terrible. The plot sucks. The character system 
 sucks. Most of the powers don't make any sense, I can't figure out how to use them. Even if I did, 
 having to choose between them in this weird card game-ish pick your deck BS just drives me nuts. 
 I realize it's popular, but I really don't care for it. Micromanaging stuff like that just gives 
 me a headache.
  
  But, I would be retarded if I just judged the game based on it's single-player campaign, which 
 is almost kind of non-existent anyways. The multi-player aspect, that's where I really don't get 
 this.
  
  I'm playing this tutorial, which is so-so. I didn't even realize it was the tutorial. I just thought 
 the game was boring. I stuck with it. Then, all of a sudden I'm fighting these real people. They 
 wipe their butts with my face. I'm humiliated, but I live. After the fact, I realize what happened. 
 Fair enough, I just need to learn.
  
  But then I get into the real game, and it just isn't fun. Everything is wicked hard, but without 
 any kind of point. It's kind of sandboxy, but it feels real limited too, like a hall of mirrors, 
 or Disneyland or something. They want you to feel like it's a huge online game, but... it really 
 isn't. It's just Goofy in the corner selling tools for flaying people alive.
  
  I feel like I just entered a Myspace: The Online Game . All I see is a giant guild popularity contest, 
 only with a lame Ren-Faire feel, except with Jocks who play Madden 47 on their PS3's they bought 
 on the first day, instead D&amp; D types.
  
  Hey man, check out my new band, er... guild. I'm tired of you asking. I do not want to be apart 
 of the Dark Evil Destructers . It's like every bad Gothic garage band in the world went out and 
 named their guild after themselves.
  
  And I wish you all would get over the Anime thing. All the softness of this game was starting to 
 give me a migraine.
  
  I feel like I'm getting fanboyish myself whining like this. The honest truth is, I just don't get 
 it... If you LOVE this game, I wish you well. The single player blows, and the system is frustrating 
 even when chopping friends into tiny pieces. Please, don't get angry, I know, I missed the point. 
 I admit it, I did. I really tried to get it, and I still think it's the myspace of RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarcadoz
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars introduces many features previously unseen or rarely seen in the MMORPG genre and heavily 
 emphasizes on using skills rather than gaining experience and buying better equipment to beat your 
 opponents.
  
  First of all, Guild Wars is free to play once you bought it. There are no monthly fees which make 
 it attractive also to role-players not being interested in continuously investing money in online 
 gaming. This clearly seperates Guild Wars from other MMORPGS.
  
  Furthermore the game is much less about building up a 'virtual existence' and therefore doesn't 
 include any professions or similiar. Also the places where all players can meet at the same time 
 are limited to towns and outposts. Upon leaving such a town a copy of this region (so called 'explorable 
 region') is created and only your current party will have access to it. On the one hand this prevents 
 overcrowded farming spots, stability issues and kill stealing but on the other hand it really lacks 
 the feeling of 'realness' as it is just a copy. It feels as if everything you do only temporarily 
 changes your environment. After leaving this area everything will be reset to normal. Guild Wars 
 feels much more mathematical and calculating than other online games and there is way less emotion 
 in it.
  
  What is new to the role-playing aspect is that the level you can gain caps at 20 which is reached 
 quite fast so on from that point your progress completely depends on your choice and usage of skills 
 and teamwork. This makes it somewhat difficult for traditional role-players.
  
  Graphics are quite good and don't require the latest high-end PC to provide playable results. A 
 point of criticism is the total lack of lip synchronization. Also the dialogues often seem out 
 of place because they are spoken in a boring manner by untalented voice actors. You will rather 
 fall asleep than be highly motivated to fight the evil forces. The soundtrack is interesting in 
 the beginning but gets boring after a while.
  
  There are only few stability issues and the servers are working great almost all of the time. What 
 has to be mentioned is the vast amount of updates and special features which are added on a regular 
 basis. There are funny christmas and halloween specials as well as other major changes on special 
 occasions which often include altering the whole look of the towns and outposts and introducing 
 interesting mini-games.
  
  Nevertheless Guild Wars feels as if it was made mostly for competitive battles between human players 
 (PvP &amp; GvG) rather than being an enjoyable long-time role-playing experience. I personally 
 ended up creating a lot of characters from scratch and deleting the old ones so I could just get 
 the feeling of 'building an individual character'. But I never had the impression of being more 
 that just another anonymous guy on the battlefield. If you're into that kind of competitive stuff, 
 go ahead, you definitely won't regret your choice. But if you are a classic role-player you won't 
 get what you're looking for no matter how long you keep playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpion_great
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 8, 2006 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is one of those games where you cant stop playing it. From detailed world, to detailed 
 characters this game has it all.
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay is actually pretty fun. Now although it feels like a single player game, 
 it really isnt. At first I thought wait a minute... they only way to see other people outside town 
 posts is only if youre in a group? wtf? 
  But then I found out that you can still have a lot of fun playing just with henchmen. The quests 
 were well done and you don't get tired of them since there is always something new to do. I really 
 enjoyed the missions as well. Tons of different enemies, skills and items. The only thing I did 
 not like about the gameplay, was the AI. Sometimes the henchmen might screw up everything by not 
 following orders so you have to be careful.
  
  Graphics - The best graphics I have ever seen for a mmorpg. Not next gen graphics, so that means 
 even if you have a crappy system, you can still play the game!
  
  Sound - Great music that really fits the game but it does get a little repetitive over time.
 
  
  Value - For a game that keeps you playing for months and free online gameplay? Oh ye its worth 
 it.
  
  So if youre looking for a game that will save you money and keep you busy for a while, then this 
 is your answer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xidum
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 5, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  GAMeplay ---awsome playing, loads of room to explore, added conetent regualry, once again, ITS FREE 
 YEAAAAA!!!, the 2 expansions that i do not own are also appeared to be good. millions of weapons... and 
 diffulcluty is quite hard and takes a bit of time to learn the basics (well me anyway)
  
  GRAPHICS --- great graphics... sometimes the occasional glitch, but i have seen worse games...
 
  
  SOUND ---nohting that i can really say, alot of groans and background music... the beloved CLING, 
 CHING, STAB... ARRRRGH...
  
  VALUE ---worth it all, been on market for a while so it isnt that pricey, AND ITS FREE ^^
  
 
  BAD POINTS ---i dont like the fact that u cant jumo of edges... kinda restricts freedom if u get 
 what a mean...
  
  in the MMORPG table i personally think it out stands WoW by a gunshot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tr33zon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  The MMORPG genre is getting out of hand, countless new titles being spawned in a genre that requires 
 immense dedication, usually to one or two titles. Many newcomers to the genre feel very intimidated 
 by the choice of titles. Do they go for the popular World of Warcraft, or do they play the imaginative 
 City of Heroes/Villains series? Well, NCSoft have published ArenaNet's MMORPG Guild Wars and it's 
 probably one of the best options out there. Guild Wars has no monthly fees, too. Now this may be 
 misleading, and suggest that it isn't as good as the others out there. If I'm perfectly honest, 
 I prefer Guild Wars to World of Warcraft.
  
  The Combat System is extremely well done for starters. You have a skill bar which can hold 8 skills 
 at a time and the skills you decide to use are entirely up to you. There are literally hundreds 
 of skills in this game, over one hundred for each profession, certainly. I'm not entirely sure 
 of the exact number, but it's a lot. Considering that a character can have a Primary Profession 
 and a Secondary Profession, that's a potential of over 200 skills per character at a time and you 
 can always change your Secondary Profession whenever you see fit. Your attribute points can also 
 be refunded and redistributed, as well as your skills being interchangable. This allows for an 
 extremely impressive amount of different character builds and you can tailor your character for 
 pretty much any scenario you may come across. The recent addition of being able to Save and Load 
 different builds is a godsend, as now players can switch their entire skill and attribute selections 
 with just a couple of mouse clicks.
  
  Graphically, the game is superb. It easily beats World of Warcraft in terms of visuals (The constant 
 comparisons to World of Warcraft justified by the fact that it is currently the market leader) , 
 looking more realistic and atmospheric by far. The weather effects are truly stunning and the attention 
 to detail is amazing.
  
  One key feature of Guild Wars is the PvP elements. Guild Wars is often called a CMMORPG (Competetive 
 Massively Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Game) , as the International tournament and Guild Ladder 
 is consistently active. Regular play-offs are held, where the top guilds from the ladder attend 
 an event held by NCSoft to compete for Cash Prizes and other rewards. It is this player involvement 
 that keeps the Guild Wars community constantly fresh and new.
  
  The sound (Composed by Jeremy Soule) is extremely atmospheric, acting as a sponge for the environments, 
 soaking up the games atmosphere and then reproducing it as audible bliss. The score is epic and 
 sounds just like something out of Lord of the Rings or any other Fantasy movie.
  
  The game is always changing too, with new content released via new campaigns being released and 
 constant updates. The developer really does take every step to ensure that the player does not 
 feel ignored. The campaigns are the extremely engrossing PvE side of the gameplay, which actually 
 features an ongoing narrative-led Story that the player is bound to, without feeling restricted.
 
  
  In a nutshell, Guild Wars is an extremely enjoyable MMORPG, that is easily identifiable by its 
 breathtaking graphics, PvP emphasis and awe-inspiring combat system. Combined with the lack of 
 Monthly Subscription Fees, this game comes up trumps when placed head-to-head with pretty much 
 any other title in the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godfather_XP
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 29, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars, newly dubbed Prophecies campaign puts you in an MMO unlike most you've seen before. 
 Prophecies is an action-adventure fast paced rpg. Overall the game looks good, though getting old 
 it still shines in my eyes. Prophecies campaign consists of a lengthly introduction, 25 missions, 
 too many quests to count, the original 6 classes of Guild Wars, some nice endgame content, and 
 alot of PvP. I mean alot, this is defenitly the most fine tuned aspect of Guild Wars.
  
  However good PvP is the PvE aspect is not incredibly long assuming you don't play the end game 
 content alot and don't spend hours farming as I do.
  
  Though my review is quite short who cares only maybe 3 people will read this and learn almost nothing 
 they couldnt reading the real review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobylim
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 16, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  Reaching lvl 20 is really really fast. once you are lvl 20, there is nothing interesting. once 
 you built the best part you can, there is nothing else to do. duels are really boring from my point 
 of view. everyone can be as good as anybody else. there is a lot of cheap shot like the 55 health 
 monk warriors that were almost unbeatable. After that, once you have the favor of the god, you 
 can go to a special world, but the thing is that... its is really hard, and still give you nothing 
 new. there is a guy that can make you a special armor but it cost lik 100 glob of octoplasm to 
 built one piece, and each glob cost like 100k??!! i mean well ok, it must be good at least, but 
 then DUHHHH, it gives you NOTHING MORE. just a cool look. I mean wtf with this?? you can still 
 lvl when you reached lvl 20, but it gives you point that are really useless. You cannot jump or 
 get down a montain, an this make me wanna yell WHY CAN I **** GET DOWN THE LITTLE MONTAIN AND MUST 
 FIND A PATH 1000 miles away! this make the game being really ocmplicated to get tto the point yopu 
 want, there are some glitches... seriously, i cant beleive i played this game for nothing. The 
 quests are very hard at the end and also, even if everybody is lvl 20, people may get owned like 
 hell because they play like dumb **** Sorry, but i dont get tt, why is it so high rated, i really 
 beleive this game suckes compare to any other good MMORPG. you can't even enconter people to help 
 while on the field because you only see people in the village. SUCKS SUCKS SUCKS. Ok it is free 
 I admit be sorry, i still think this game stinks. Sometimes combat can be endless because your 
 health goes up as fast as you take damage and its the same thing for the enemy. WOW. a limit of 
 8 usables magics = ok wth? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: commando21
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 29, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best RPGs out there, so large and diverse, plus to top it off you don't have 
 to pay monthly fees, what could be better. There are so many possibilities to create your character. 
 The five main classes are a ranger, warrior, monk, necromancer, and an elementalist. These five 
 can be made into any combination you can think of. This game is highly addictive and it has a great 
 community. Everyone is willing to help you no matter your level of skill in the game, and they 
 wont charge you and try to rip you off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KineticSoul
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  The Good: This game has so many things going for it that I could go on for pages. You cannot go 
 wrong with this series of games. You can choose to play the whole game without other players (using 
 henchmen) I would call this a singleplayer mode or you can play with other live players multiplayer 
 mode.
  The Bad: N/A
  
  Gameplay:9.0
  Graphics:9.0
  Sound:9.0
  Value:9.0
  Tilt:9.0
  Singleplayer:9.0 PvE
  Multiplayer:9.0 PvP
  
  Conclusion: If your a loner or into 
 playing with other live players this game has what you are looking for. I think the high quality 
 of gameplay makes this a must buy and a must have for every PC gamers collection. I would warn you 
 though this game is addicting and before you know it hours will pass quickly. There are so many 
 professions to choose from and different builds you can try.
  
  My Score:9.0 Superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilchophe
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  I've never been a huge fan of Role-playing games neither of MMORPG's, but in a couple of dizzying 
 hours I was embroiled in the world of Tyria .... This game has incredible depth and scales to an 
 epic level.
  If you are new to Guild War or you are curious then get this Chapter.
  Even now there are still a huge number of players playing this Chapter.
  
  Get it and kiss 
 your life goodbye as you while away hours and hours.
  What really makes Guild Wars stand out is the game play with other players as you fight together 
 on missions and even some quests.
  
  Even more amazing is that this title can be played over a 56k line.
  
  A must have for any 
 RPG fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shmiity
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 27, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Its a great game, but only for one playthrough.
  
  The combat, and everything about it is awesome, like seriously amazing.
  The music scores are 
 astounding, same for the graphics.
  
  Besides the amazing look to the game, it plays very well, and every level is very well designed, 
 however, the game characters you get to build up are very limited.
  
  Maximum level is 20, which sucks.
  
  But, you get many skills for each class, and each class 
 is quite balanced.
  
  Warrior
  Ranger
  Elementalist
  Monk
  Necromancer
  Mesmer
  
  are the classes.
  
  Get a bunch of friends to get the game at once, and it is very very 
 enjoyable to play through, many hours of value.
  
  Free to play online as well.
  
  One problem I had were that the requirements were somewhat high to play, but not too bad.
  
 
  After you beat the game with one character, don't even bother doing it again, each adventure is 
 exactly the same, no matter what class you are, it never changes.
  
  But all in all, awesome title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhorahill
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 22, 2006 9:18 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is definitely an innovative game. Not only it managed to successfully combine solo and 
 multiplayer game plays but it also put an end to one of the most controversial aspects of MMORPGs 
 - the monthly fee.
  
  It's basic game play structure is divided into two major groups - RPG characters and PvP only characters.
 
  
  If you decide to play a RPG character, Guild Wars behaves as the standard RPG game. You choose 
 class, profession, skills and appearance and are ready to explore a world full of quests, monsters 
 and interesting NPCs. The experience system rewards quest completion and exploration over endless 
 farming, what provides a nice opportunity for the player to enjoy GW beautiful graphics. There's 
 a lot of different settings to explore, each with its own musical theme. You'll came across deserts, 
 icy mountanis, forests, jungles, beaches, caves and many other environments.
  
  The character animation is very good and there's a varied set of clothing, armor, weapons, pets 
 and details. The spells have completely different casting patterns, lights and effects. The music 
 is awesome and although voice acting is not good as the instrumental part, it does not harm the 
 game.
  
  You can choose to adventure with AI controlled henchmen or with other GW players. You can choose 
 your partners  NPC or human - in multiplayer areas called outposts, where you can also trade, 
 upgrade your gear, join a guild and talk to any other character. Outposts are the only strictly 
 MMORPG areas. There are usually dozens of people selling stuff, advertising their guilds, cursing 
 and bragging. Outside outposts, you are no longer in a MMORPG world, its only you and your party 
  NPC or human.
  
  This dual setting works very well because the outposts work as a place to talk and trade while 
 the true adventure areas are not crowded, you can actually play only with AI. In another words, 
 its not mandatory to play with other people. Do it only if you want and when you want.
  
  The game structure is also very well designed. It does not take so long to complete the game  
 finishing the main missions  and one can achieve the level cap much sooner than any MMORPG. The 
 real challenge is to gain prestige and titles by exploring settings, collecting &uuml; ber rare 
 items and skills.
  
  Skills are abilities usable by your characters during the game and play a very important role in 
 GW. I say your characters because once you complete a quest and gain access to a given skill, all 
 characters from your account will be able to use it - given they have the required profession and 
 equipment. The best skills are a painful process but its a one time journey. Also, as its not 
 hard to achieve level 20, one can try many professions, unlock different skills and use them to 
 create a PvP character.
  
  PvP characters do not play the campaign, theyre only purpose is to crack peoples skulls in the 
 arena for prestige. You can create your PvP character right from the start - without any knowledge 
 of GW - but playing the campaign is advisable for rare skills, items and abilities.
  
  The PvP combats are exciting, varied and demand much strategy if you plan to win the most prestigious 
 guild wars. You can train your RPG character in level limited arenas to get the hang of the combat 
 before the real action starts.
  
  There are a lot of well designed ideas in GW which include but are not limited to the craft system, 
 henchmen, skills, secondary professions, PvP only characters, outposts and mini map drawing. Add 
 to that the fact that there are no monthly fees to and I say this is a game that should not be 
 missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tgx
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 20, 2006 10:12 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars has a steady stream of expansions coming through. One boon is they can each be installed 
 indiviually and run fine without requiring a disk in your PC DVD Player. The story for all three 
 are very different yet all amazing stories. The first a standard (very high quality) RPG. You can 
 choose henchmen or othr ppl on the server to join you in missions and quests.
  
  NCSoft has not let me down yet. I also play Lineage II, Mainly due to the Forgotten Realm Characters. 
 The PVP is perfectlly created as an open PVP world. The best part is the developers go through 
 the forums and really pay attention to what can be better through player opinions. NCSoft is a 
 great game developer company. The have powerful stories and you don't need to wade through any 
 boring parts because these games are great.
  
  Each also comes in collectors editions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vigen892
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 19, 2006 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars by far is one of my favorite games. It's not like other mmorpgs' like WOW or Everquest 
 because it's more heavily based on the PvP and team-based battle. It is a unique aspect which is 
 just breathtaking. There are different professions which help in different ways in the PvP modes 
 and lets you have different ways to approach the single-player portion of the game. Guild Wars 
 gives the player a lot of different ways to play the game. You can play it as a regular RPG, and 
 action-adventure typed game or just a great PvP style multiplayer mmorpg. What I didn't like about 
 the game was that some of the many quests in the game felt tedious and unsatisfyng, but besides 
 that, Guild Wars was one of the best mmorpg's
  I have ever played. I highly recommend it to rpg fans or people who just want a different take 
 on the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skarwolf
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 18, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  I hate when games are compared to Diablo. What about the Ultima series, with its patented 3/4 overhead 
 view. They were more action-rpg similar to what Diablo would become.
  
  That being said, Guildwars allows you to play in the 3/4 overhead view or zoom to first person 
 perspective.
  
  You can play solo, or with other people. Even solo you have a number of henchman npc's to fulfill 
 the roles in a group. Either way, the game is quite difficult compared to others. You have minor 
 quests and main storyline quests. When you complete one of the main quests you get a cinematic 
 movie that leads to the next area. All items you get can be broken down for use in creating new 
 armor and weapons. You can add runes to your armor to increase your stats. The max level has only 
 been 20 for quite some time. When you level you get skill points to train. I find that once people 
 discover the uber template everyone is a carbon copy which is the case in guildwars.
  
  The great part is that its an online only game and totally free. Well, you have to buy it, but 
 theres no monthly fee. And you can PVE &amp; PVP all you like.
  
  The Factions expansion adds a number of pvp instances to go with the original battlefields. The 
 graphics and landscapes are quite beautiful. But most of the time you'll be attacked by large groups 
 of monsters and have little time to explore safely. Everything is instanced to your group so you'll 
 never run into other places in the wilderness. The only places you run into other people are in 
 main towns or cities, or in the battlegrounds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brhisawsome
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 15, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  i seriously dont kno wuts so great bout this game.
  
  
  
  pretty lame, theres a bunch of 
 these guys trying to take over the world or something?
  
  
  
  the gameplay isnt bad its not really 
 great but its not bad, you have liek a bunch of spells that are generally pretty cool. plus its 
 a HUGE HUGE world golly its big. The monsters are pretty cool. However, i have two big problems 
 with it. First, its like not really a mmo, i was expecting it was and i shouldnt have, its like 
 a mmo in towns but, unless ur in a party, your all alone or with bots. second the level cap is 
 only level 20!! seriously thats pathetic, i pratically got it and i barely played it. The oe highlight 
 of this game is that i found that the community is suprisingly nice, i wasnt expecting it but there 
 strangely kind.
  
  
  
  pretty good, the monsters are pretty cool and vary quite a lot.
  
  
 
  
  not bad not really to repetitive either.
  
  in the end guild wars isnt bad but it coulda been a lot better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBZ-Vegeta
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2006 12:11 am PT
Review:  Hi every one . I play this game too :) . It's one of the best games in the beggining is very easy 
 , but when you complete the pre-searing you'll see the true game and it's not very easy . By the 
 way My character in the gale is : The Deadly Blonde . If someone is higher level - about 20 and 
 want to help me please write me please . If anyone have items for Ranger please tell me :) . And 
 one acain the game is realy cool . the graphics and the sounds are perfect. There are a lot of 
 interesting quests . :) The map after the pre-searing is very big and i like that too . I realy 
 love the game and there are great events , like that on holloween :) . But i bought my game about 
 15 days before so i couldn't join the event : ( . But you can see the results of it - some players 
 that have win the event have got a pumpkin for a head :) and that's cool . there were others events 
 like that but i'm too week for now :) so that's wy i want someone to help me . I like the game 
 very much so i'm going to buy the secound game (factions) but i'll buy it when i'm better at the 
 first one :) and afther that i'm going to buy the third game :) the are cool all of them 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kainralzo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 20, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a game many will find hard not to enjoy. For starters, the graphics are simply amazing, 
 I can recall many times when I would journey into a new area, only to be captivated by the wonderful 
 in depth colors that could literally change your mood. I had once travelled into an icy cave full 
 of club weilding trolls, and I could easily imagine myself there in person, that is how spectacular 
 the graphics can be. The camera angle of the game can also be changed to your liking. If your a 
 ranger for example, you can zoom up close into first person view to feel as if your the one firing 
 arrows. It may take awhile to get used to the camera angle however, for the camera does affect 
 how well you battle. The camera angle has been edited though, for the better, for now you can scroll 
 out even furthur to get a better view of your surroundings. Moving onto sound, Id say that the 
 battle noises are quite realistic. The clashing of swords, the roar of a beast, it really does 
 make the game come alive. However, I was quite dissapointed with the music of Guild Wars. Often, 
 the music would be a monotonous bore. You could be facing off against one of the most hardest hordes 
 of enemies ever faced, and the music would still be the same as if you were strolling down the 
 road peacefully and happily away. Finally, there is gameplay. There were many things I enjoyed 
 of the gameplay, and just a few things I didnt quite like. Going into the positives first, a few 
 things that you can look forward to this game is the variety of professions you can choose from, 
 as well as the plethora of skills that come with them. You can adventure across Tyria, the continent 
 of the first Guild Wars installment, as a heroic warrior, or you can be the exact opposite of the 
 offensive hero and try out the monk. Personally, I have never been a monk, nor do I want to. Monks 
 are the most seeked players out there that people just die to get into a group with. There is just 
 too much pressure on them in my opinion. If spellcasters arent to your liking, you could try out 
 the ranger profession. Ive played as a ranger since the day Ive gotten Guild Wars, they are similar 
 to warriors in the fact that they do physical damage as their main method of attack, but warriors 
 and rangers have one big difference. Rangers are much more versatile. Theres also necromancers 
 who can hex their foes or raise the dead, and elementalists, who have four main ways of attack. 
 Fire damage, water damage, earth damage, and wind damage. Finally there is the mesmer. I really 
 cant say much about them, as I have never played as one. However, their hexes are quite the killer 
 in the right time. It degenerates your health to such a degree that youll be left feeling broken. 
 However, mesmers armor are quite weak. Just the look of their armor appears feeble, as it is 
 merely clothing. Clearly Guild Wars offers such a variety of characters to choose from that no 
 person will be left feeling as if none of the six professions are right for them. Onto the negatives 
 then. I have realized one dissapointing aspect of the gameplay that I know many will not agree 
 with, although some might. Every single thing that you do in Guild Wars revolves around fighting. 
 When you need money, you fight to get the loot creatures drop. If your starting on a quest, it 
 will require you to journey out into the open to fight and kill monsters for whatever the reason 
 may be. When you want to head over to the next town by yourself, you must fight your way there. 
 When you want to capture an elite skill, you must find the correct monster and fight it. What 
 to do you after yourve reached the level cap of 20? You head over to the arenas to fight in groups 
 against other real life members. I really did not like how all there was to Guild Wars was battling 
 monsters or other players. It got repetitive. There are no mini games or little jokes that make 
 you grin, nor are there many trivial items that you may seek out just for the fun of it. All in 
 all, Guild Wars is a very practical game. You get your armor and weapon, and your good to go. Some 
 may like this, as they would find it pointless to go on a quest just to obtain a useless trinket. 
 I however, find that it would be good for the game. It would be optional of course, no one would 
 force the player to waste their time on these things. I just feel that the game is lacking in the 
 activities that are possible. Despite this small downside of Guild Wars, it is definitely a game 
 worth buying. The graphics are amazing, battle noises livening, a variety of professions and attack 
 skills, and one hell of an experience for any player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zanthrus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 12, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  
  Ok the great thing about this game is that its a FREE online rpg, unlike many other MMORPGs such 
 as World of Warcraft, Everquest and Horizons. It also has a great storyline which follows through 
 and is reasonably long. It has a good PvP system in the form of an arena and the character creation 
 is reasonable. The Specs for the game are very low making it more available to everyone. A very 
 wide range of abilities for each class.
  
  THE BAD:
  
  The amount of items in the game is low, there are only 5 kinds of armour for each class. There 
 is a low level limit of only 20 which is reachable in about a solid weekend's worth of play. There 
 is no auction house to sell items over to other players and so it must be done in public areas. 
 There is no crafts to make money so it must be done by purely killing monsters and selling items, 
 this can take hours 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erichttp
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 11, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a fully party based PvE/PvP MMO that is extremely well made. Ane it's especially 
 worth your money considering that most most MMO's cost about $10 a month, while Guild Wars is free 
 after you buy it. This does make a big differene.
  But anyway, the gameplay is good, but if when you buy this game you want to be a hero that does 
 everything on there own, don't buy this game. Guild Wars is 99% party based, and you simply can't 
 do anything with out a party. You will die. But that does not make this a bad game. Guild Wars 
 has amazing graphics for an MMO, but the music in the game is not very good. But overall, Guild 
 Wars is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caiyu13
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 11, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  Like WoW it has all the questing and adventuring, like WoW it has the great PvP and rich background 
 story. Unlike WoW it dosen't cost you your life saving to keep on playing. Fantastic graphics, 
 great guild system and a good gameplay system, what more could you have asked for? Ok so maybe 
 the character are a bit unrealistic such as all the girls looking like run away models and the 
 men just like men but with a designer stubb but thats all ok! We didn't log on to play some realistic 
 game to remind us of the depressing world! People log on to escape that so sort of stuff and this 
 game and provide the perfect solution. Guild wars is a definite must for all MMORPG fans and even 
 if you hate RPG I would still recommend that you give it a go. Be warned though people are more 
 likely to ignore you in this game rather than help you as everyone seem so shy, but as long as 
 your in a guild everyone feels like family to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voive
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 9, 2006 5:47 am PT
Review:  Hello.
  
  This game was my 1st RPG game that i had played and when i first played it, i was not so keen on 
 it, it was rather hard to understand how it all works. Because of that i switched and bought World 
 of Warcraft because it looked more starter type for new players, which i was right. I got really 
 into World of Warcraft and started to understand how these types of games work... but i lost intrest 
 in World of Warcraft because the people online became childish.. the game begun to just be more 
 of who is the highest level and there was not really a story to it, although i love all the end 
 game stuff like the PVP raids and dungeons!
  So... i went back and gave Guild Wars ago.. i started to enjoy and what really helped is that a 
 friend from work also played and had been playing it for a long time helped me out. I started to 
 look stuff up on the net and i would read the quest /missions that were given to me. I loved/love 
 the videos they have got in it to. Although there is not as much customisation in it as World of 
 Warcraft, the out standing graphics and storyline won me over.
  
  If you play Guild Wars let me know, ill be intresting in your view of the game
  contact: mr_robo25@yahoo. co. uk 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTYoCharlie
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is very easy for the people that played or just started a MMORPG . The Graphics are Fabulous 
 for a free subscription game. The gameplay was fast and easy to manuver . U can solo monsters with 
 COM henchmans. PvP Is fast moving. Also The level cap is 20 so u can reach top level in less than 
 a month. And alot more content.
  
  The only thing that put the game down was the Sence of freedom (Cant jump, no people around to say 
 Hey wanna help with this mission? ) 35% of the Games world is a populated area to talk to people, 
 and the rest is all An INSTANCE ( a place for ONLY u or your party can go in) . When u die it kinda 
 sucks since like u lose 5 percent of your real stats every time u die, but u can remove that with 
 exp or going to a city.
  
  Over all Guildwars is a GREAT game for the people that cant afford the other great MMORPG's ( (World 
 of warcraft, City of villians or heros,) ) 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mushycookie800
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 1, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is more of a social online mass multiplayer game such as World of Warcraft and Everquest 
 and suprisingly there are no monthly fees like most online RPGs.
  
  Although there are several gameplay gliches and slighly outdated graphics Guild Wars has a lot 
 to offer. There is a large campagan and many side quests that differ depending on what class you 
 choose form wether that is; Ranger, Warrior, Mesmer, Elementalist, Necromancer, or Monk. If you 
 play through the game completing all the side quests as well as the main ones then this game could 
 take as long as several months to complete. Unfortunatly after you have played this game for too 
 long it seems to get boring quick. There are points where all the quests get much harder all of 
 a sudden which forces you to explore to find enemies so you can gain experience.
  
  Aside from several gliches, problems and annoying players Guild Wars is a fun online RPG with a 
 lot to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyosukeugc
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 31, 2006 9:01 am PT
Review:  Don't want to bore with a long review. Just have the following to say:
  
  If you're looking for an MMORPG type game and don't want monthly fees. If you hate trying to get 
 to level 99, If you wish you coudl do more skill based fighting and if you want a good game to 
 play with other players that has a well built foundation/economy then Guild Wars if just for you!
 
  
  It now has 2 extra expansions that are well worth the purchase price! The fact that they work together 
 or alone, makes the value amazing! With the added expansions you have 10 characters, hundreds of 
 skill combinations and hours upon hours of gameplay to keep you busy for months to come! If you 
 haven't tried any of it yet, get on it today! You won't be sorry that you did at all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voodoothe2nd
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 29, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  It's a great game for all RPG fans, although i do believe they could of made the game a little 
 batter, nevertheless it remains a game worth buying. Its a simple RPG that can be learned within 
 a few hours and if your really into it you can easily get up to 100 hours of gameplay. But if you 
 just want to finish the storyline and not to any of the PvP part of the game you can still get 
 20-40 hours of gameplay. Its very well made with the teamwork, the henchmen are VERY well balanced 
 so they can't do the mission without you yet they are a LOT of help. I still recommend looking 
 for real players for help but sometimes its hard to find people that only want to do the mission 
 bonus and you end up with henchmen and it can get frustrating. Although if you just want to finish 
 the story line and stop playing after you don't have to do the bonus's and it makes life much simpler 
 but thats your choice to make.
  
  The game has a very special style of game play... It's not at all epic and some people may not 
 like the game because of the feel, for example WoW fans might like like this game for it is not 
 epic but fans of RGP games in general will think its a great game on average.
  
  In the end i recommend to it to all RPG fans who will not mind the loss of epicness in this game
 
  
  sincerely,
  V [) 2n [) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattwbr
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 29, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  This game caught me by surprise. I was not expecting to like it so much. I am coming up on 1 year 
 of playing it and it is Sooo awesome! I almost gave up on it when i could not beat Thunderhead 
 Keep (mission) I tried it like ten times, and then did it with my friend on his laptop next to me. 
 We beat it so easily! The key is just to have a good, smart group. It sucked me right back in and 
 I love it. A major plus is that unlike WoW, you do not have to be a geek with no life. You reach 
 lvl 20 real fast and then you can do whatever. I personally barely have any free time and still 
 have a Kik-ass Warrior. Another plus is that it manages to make you feel proud of your character 
 and that you have one of the best characters in the game. And Best of All, NO MONTHLY FEE!
  
  only bad part is that there is no jump button and you must stay on specified paths outside. 
 This I adapted to quickly. It is not as noticeable or as bad as it sounds. I just means that you 
 cannot jump off cliffs or jump over boulders and stuff. Hint: If u make a warrior, make a warrior 
 monk and use Live Vicariously!-It is the best skill ever!
  
  Guild Wars Rocks-Buy Nightfall 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josoz
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 28, 2006 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Well, Factions is still the best of the two, I havent tried nightfall yet. On Factions, it gives you 
 more time to get a feel for the game until you get to the real stuff. While you can stay in pre 
 searing as long as you want, there's really no point. Factions also gets you leveled up MUCH faster. I 
 mean on factions, you can walk out of city and get 4000 xp just for doing that. You get to level 
 20 much faster, while here, you can't see the light at the end of the tunnel. This is a great game, but 
 that is the only thing that really bugs me. Also, some very hard quests on here are only 500 experience 
 for completing. Awesome game, but will eventually get to be boring after you havent been lvl 20 for 
 a month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExpoAppopi
Rating: 7.6
Date: Oct 28, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  Postive: Satisfying level progression.
  Varied classes with multiple skill options available to suit different challenges.
  Good graphics, 
 with excellent area design. A sound and easily accessible interface.
  Awesome value, due to no monthly charge.
  Constant updates keep the game in tip top shape.
 
  
  Negative:
  For a game of its kind, Guild Wars have few negative points. Its simplicity might be viewed as 
 a minus, but imho it provides a relaxing gaming experience.
  
  After a while I stopped playing Guild Wars, but this is not because of any particular flaw in the 
 game. Rather it is my personal dislike of what I consider lacklustre storylines and environment 
 feedback in online games in general.
  I have no problems recommending it to anyone who wants a faster paced, and less grind intensive 
 cooperative multiplayer experience compared to for example World of Warcraft. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gunnar136
Rating: 6.2
Date: Oct 28, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  I fell in love with Guild wars shortly after getting it. I admit myself i logged in maybe as much 
 as 100 hours since then. However with the new expansions and the changes i began to find problems 
 with my connection. Randomly the server would drop me causing all progress to be lost. I sent numerous 
 complaints and questions to the gm's at arenanet but could never get a response from one person. 
 Apparently i was told it was my problem not theres and all they could do is have me run a diagnostic 
 test which uppon sending to them they claim they don't know how to read it. Ive waisted to much 
 time with incompetant technical support and refuse to waist any more of my time with them or a 
 game that keeps disconnecting and losing all my hard erned progress 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZiRa-Bosnia
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2006 2:12 am PT
Review:  This will be short review about this game. People say that this is MMORPG, i dont agree with it 
 , some people say IT IS MMORPG some ITS NOT ....
  but lets not discuss about that.
  
  After purchase and instalation i started my GW , made account and started
  playing Campaigns. 
 1st thing i noticed is Graphics , its GREAT (better than
  WoW imho) but thats not all , game have nice story which pull you in the
  game. Bad part of the 
 game is Game Physic. You cant jump , PVP is also screwed
  up like (warrior attack target (started hitting it) if he moves left or right he must
  click 
 attack again) Movement of characters is somehow unatural, If you people ask me , bad Physics in 
 game is enough for me to switch to
  another. We know that Graphics is not only factor in GAME.
  
  Gameplay is not bad , but still 
 I CANT JUMP Omfg. and PVP is worst ever.
  Anarchy online have better PVP Jeez. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fernieg
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Man i can now count the hours i have spent Guild wars as changed my life i closed my WoW account 
 this game will rock your world if you do not own Guild wars (GW) yet you need GW This is going 
 on my Must have of 2006-??????
  well till the world end's A MUST HAVE Ok Graphics 
 
  Times Better than Wow Game play 
  Times Better than Wow sound 
  Times 
 Better than Wow look i do not know why they say wow is better when the game you can quote
  me on this WoW SUCKS i am not kidding never Buy WoW by Guild wars you will save your self some 
 time and a lot of money you will have more fun with guild wars any way Nuff Said 
::::::

::::::
UserName: northtenn
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 26, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Guild Wars (Prophecies) for the PC about a month now and I have been impressed. 
 This is my first venture into PC gaming and I have found the controls and gameplay both easy enough 
 to grasp and difficult enough to master to make me want to continue learning. They are constantly 
 improving the core gameplay with streaming updates to balance the game or offer new items. The 
 Good: No Monthly Fees make it a great starter game for those just beginning the MMORPG genre but 
 it is also deep enough that you don't have to drop it to move up to a real MMORPG 
  More than just another RPG grind fest with Missions and Quest that keep you focused on improving 
 your skills &amp; character
  Fun balance of hack and slash and strategy with adjustable skills and attributes that give you 
 flexibility to change your character if you make some mistakes early on
  
  The Bad: A couple of small issues with having to regroup your team after warping
  They still 
 haven't dropped the price ($50 most places) for a game that is almost two years old, that being 
 said, it is worth every penny! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: me346777hy
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 24, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  First off this game gets old fast once you have your character created then you enter the world, you 
 think Yeah this game really is all hyped up as I thought it would be. Or so i thought...
  After leaving the city you go do a few quests and all that, then the Charr start invading and destorying 
 the cities. You then make your way back to the ruin cities and exploring other cities and doing 
 quests and missions but you kill the same monsters over and over and over, the quests are boring 
 ,and sometimes take up to 2hours, and the monsters in here dont respawn you have to move to an 
 outpost which makes it more boring.
  The people here are more mature and straight forward ,you barly hear no noobs or that's gay or 
 can i have money plz etc.. So that's good.
  There's no real skills in here that you could lvl off from which is dissapointing. You can't take 
 breaks from combat thats all you do is fight; or make a guild and fight people in it..
  
  All in all some of you guys are right that WoW is better than Guildwars or any other mmorpg; Which 
 I do agree with you there. But were all cridicts, were all are different, if you havent tried it how 
 would you know?
  So I say go ahead give the game a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Capitalchamp
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 23, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is an immersive and enchanting adventure. When I purchased this game I had no idea the 
 adventure I was about to embark on. First of all, the world of Tyria is an enormous land that will 
 ensure you are busy for hours upon hours on end. The max lvl of 20 of perfect. To make this clear, 
 this game is all about skill, not about rushing to be an extremely high level (even though I wouldn't 
 mind that either) . This game actually advances according to a very interesting story line. If you 
 follow the entire storyline, you will actually feel part of it. It will take atleast a decade of 
 games for any game to surpass this on my all time list.
  This game is HIGHLY reccomended for purchase because of its excellent gameplay, superb visuals, 
 the friendly community of players around the world, and its high level of addiction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sca2pula
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 22, 2006 4:17 am PT
Review:  This is my first review ever so its not going to be very good.
  
  The reason Im writing this review is because this is the first game that I believe I MUST write 
 a review for. I mean this game ROCKS! I had never played a MMO game of any kind until this game. 
 Right from the word go I was pulled into a beautiful and amazing world which I have spent hundreds 
 of hours in. The graphics are spot on. They are not over done like EQ2s graphics are but do not 
 look like a Japanese anime like World of Warcraft. The visual effects are beautiful yet not over 
 done. The screen isnt covered with flashing lights when multiple characters are casting spells. 
 The combat system is very exciting and has kept my adrenaline running to this very day. The squad 
 based combat forces you to play as a team and means that every person within the group has their 
 own job to contribute to the team. The reason why I had never played an MMO before was because 
 of the monthly subscription. The fact that you NEVER have to pay a monthly fee is Guild Wars best 
 attribute.
  
  The only down side I have of Guild Wars is the small amount of items. There is not many types of 
 armour sets for each class. ArenaNet is fixing this problem with half-yearly additions to the game. 
 I highly recommend Guild Wars to anyone who likes a good time and cant afford the monthly fees. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fig_The_Second
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 19, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  So the reason I chose this one as the best is that there was a good story line that will keep you 
 going all the way through. The environments and way the game is played is very good. Another positive 
 on this game is that it is FREE to play online! The graphics are very good on this game and doesn't 
 take a whole crap load of PC power to run it. Even though you should. The only problem was that 
 the multiplayer doesn't have much. But otherwise a very good one. So go buy this one. You won't 
 regret it. TRUST ME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lamoidzy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 18, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Ah Guild Wars, you saved my wallet, saved it fro caving and buying City of Heroes when I felt the 
 MMO bug creeping up on me. I remember thinking *Oh this Guild Wars cant be that great I mean its 
 just soe stupid alternative thats trying to use no monthly fees as an exscuse for poor gameplay. 
 Holy Cards was I wrong!
  
  First let's start with gameplay:
  
  It's broken up into two main catagories, PVE and PVP. PVE would be the regular RPG gargle, killing 
 monsters getting loot leveling up etc. Except this game actually has a story that makes the player 
 and his party the hero. The PVE game is broken up into zones or instances Sort of like the game 
 Diablo. You see all the people in your town but when you assemble your party and leave the town 
 your party goes through a loading screen then BAM its just you and your party in your own little 
 game world. Sure there are quests and stuff but the main story is told through missons. Bigger 
 tougher quests usually more unique and have neat little cinematics where your character and party 
 are made out to be the saviours of Tyria. Oh yes, the world is huge-MONGOUS. the first time I pressed 
 M my eyes popped. Massive jungles towering mountains this game has it all. Also just by selecting 
 a town or misson area youve already visted to you can teleport right there good bye long boring 
 travelling! Bad thing about the whole PVE thing is that SOME of the party members you team up with 
 can be huge jerk-wagllers. Also missons vary in time so you might not want to get into one with 
 only a few minutes to play.
  
  The PVP aspect is also grand, you can create a character from scratch thats level 20 and can use 
 certain skill sets that have been pre selected or the skills that youve unlocked in PVE. They can 
 only be used in the arenas or guild battles though so this is great for people who want a quick 
 battle in.
  
  Backing up both these aspects are 6 character proffesions, the warrior (guess) the elementalist 
 (all around magic caster) necromancer (exploits corpses to heal hiself cause damage or raise dead) 
 the mesmer (a tricky class that is primarily used to disrupt the plans of others) the ranger (archer 
 who can use traps and pets) and the Monk (healer) These classes each have 75 or so skills each 
 and you can also have a secondary profession for 150 skills. Althought the primary skill dominates 
 the characters appearance and the armour they use there are tons of skill and proffesion combinations. 
 And This is to say nothing of the Guilds. You and a group of chums can form a guild to buy an awesome 
 personalized cape and can shell out quite a bit of coin to get a kick-nice guild hall where your 
 Guild can stage guild batlles.
  
  Main problems with the Gameplay? Well, more variety in armour and weapon types would be grand, 
 and the higher grade PVP is a little too indimidating for non-hard core players.
  
  Graphics: Awesome. These happen to be the best graphics in any eexsclusivly multiplayer game I 
 have seen in a long time. The character detail is awesome and the terrain is beautiful, capes flow 
 realisticlly and giant waterfalls and impressive mountains really put you into the world.
  But the problem is during cinematics characters mouthes dont move when they talk. Just kinda looks 
 weird is all.
  
  Sound: Great sound. Great. The voiceover work is mostly good but there are a few rough patches 
 here or there. The spells all have a great swooshing sound and the swords and axes clang realistically 
 along with the dull thump of hammers.
  
  Value: The Value is good for starters. Lots of quests and things to do together and the PVP is 
 fun-limitless. However areas arnt being added as much as I would like but instead the content is 
 being packed into big exspansion packs. No monthly fees are another strong value feature and pushed 
 it to an 8.
  
  Well, what are you waiting for? Go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarKage13
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 17, 2008 1:11 pm PT
Review:  This has to be my favorite game of all time, it's immersive, the graphics are great, I love the 
 music, I loved making my own guild. Going out in parties is awesome, you can easily farm, you meet 
 new people, some nice, some not so nice. This is in my top 5 as #1 because you are able to interact 
 with other people, otherwise my favorite would be Suikoden. I have spent so many hours just sitting 
 at the computer until it hurt to stand, killing and making gold, farming, and power leveling, making 
 friends, and enemies. I would give this game one of few "Highly Addictive and Immersive" awards, 
 due to how great it is. The only thing I don't like about it is how easily you find inexperienced 
 players who don't understand what "Do not aggro" means, and they end up bringing a horde of death 
 upon the party. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firedragonghost
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Ive been playing this game for about 16 months now and i also have faction and i would say this 
 is probally better than faction. Only because that this has a better story line and its more challenging 
 and it is actually worth playing. If you like mmorpgs i would suggest u getting this game because 
 its rlly fun and also its free unlike all the other monthly games. Theres alot to say about this 
 game but you would have to play it urself in order to see how u like it. Like some ppl think this 
 game is fun and others think its just plain boring. All i have to say is that this is probally 
 better than factions and u at least have something to do when your playing this game. Some of the 
 good things about this game is almost anything. Its always fun but at some times it can be frusturating 
 or get boring. So the only other thing i have to say is if ur rlly into mmorpgs i suggest getting 
 this only because its a fun game. Also the pve and pvp are constantly fun but after u beat pve 
 u suggest doing pvp only because you always have a challenge of playing pvp instead of the same 
 pve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xgxgxg
Rating: 7.3
Date: Oct 14, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Not as good as WoW but if you cant afford to pay then sure this is the best alternative for you. But 
 if you think this might be as good as WoW then get your head straight!!! Purchase WoW instead.................. All 
 I can say is.... that the community is aweful! A bunch of jerks..... I played it for months, became 
 level 19 and unlocked alot most of things...... Even then these low levels called me noob Blah! 
 If you can't get WoW or any other game that you need to pay for. If they ask you to pay for it 
 that means its a good game. This game is pretty good actually. Just don't make it your life's  
 Although it's worth it for not paying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greghedrick
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 12, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  It is a game unlike any other MMORPG. It is mostly based on skill not on lvl. The pvp is focused 
 on smaller groups fighting eachother which is good for many aspects. It makes the game fair not 
 a slaughter. You have to form balanced teams and fight with another team with a probably different 
 build. Also the story line isnt as open ended which is good and bad but mainly good for this type 
 of game. It has many quests and many more items. Luckily they give you perfect items when you make 
 a new pvp character. You can have many different builds because there are hundreds of skills to 
 choose from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vertexian
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 9, 2006 3:41 am PT
Review:  There are lots of online games available right now, but I see that most of them have become like 
 the same game and concept being redo with new better graphic and story. No innovative breakthroughs 
 were made. Not till now when Guild Wars release.
  
  Let's start with the review.
  
  The graphics is good on moderate PC, but if you have the fancy of a high-end PC build, it will 
 be even better. The world is modeled in detailed, the character model and in-game rendering are 
 nicely done and all the visual effects were satisfying.
  
  The sounds, the music from the game done well in emphasizing the mood of certain event or area, 
 the sound effects are good; you even got different clank sound of sword hitting different type 
 of armors.
  
  The Story, nothing much to say about the story, its not bad, but I think there is room for improvement.
 
  
  The Game play is where the game really shines. Generally it has 2 major aspects. The PvE (Player 
 vs. Environment) and PvP (Player vs. Player) part. PvE part is where you try to level up your character, 
 farming for good/rare stuff, and do most things you do on RPG game. We can choose from 6 different 
 professions available with all possible class you imagine. A warrior with high armor level to dish 
 out damage, a range attacker with bow and animal companion, Elemental caster focusing on magic 
 elemental damage, healer class, even a class that can raise undead minions from corpses. For more 
 comprehensive experience of the game you can also consider purchasing stand alone Guild Wars Faction 
 and upcoming Nightfall to add another 4 new professions. These new chapters of Guild Wars is stand 
 alone cause you dont need the original Guild Wars Prophecies to play and it have its own storyline. 
 We travel through storyline in sequence of cooperative mission, which we can choose to play with 
 friends or with henchmen, in-game bots that you can recruit. Each explorable area are instances 
 that created exclusively for you and your team, believe this is a good thing, although sometimes, 
 I miss the day when some other player emerge from nowhere and kill steal my monster :p
  PvP part is where you test your skill and build against other player. Gone are the days when the 
 PvP arena ruled by people who have Godly weapon or armor. Yes we do have rare boss dropped weapon 
 in the game, but what really going to make you the last man standing, is your skill and how good 
 your build to answer the combat situation. You can only bring 8 skills and only one Elite skill 
 in those 8. These skills can be changed in outpost, town, or waiting room in PvP arena. This make 
 an interesting way in how the game played, as we will have to figure out which one to bring, and 
 which one will make best combinations in hundreds of skill available for each profession. If thats 
 not enough for you to try out hundreds of builds, Guild Wars make it even better with second profession 
 that you can choose and use the skills also. The PvP aspect have Random Arena for those who want 
 to just dive into the action with randomly select people in 4vs4 battle or even to a more organized 
 8vs8 Guild battles to race for world #1 ranked guild. One thing that I notice from the developer 
 is that they try and manage to make the game balance in the way that professions and skills are 
 played.
  No class or professions to rule them all, and no skill have no counter, you just have to improvise, 
 which is good ^_^
  Guild Wars will sure to please you in PvP aspect of the game.
  
  Internet connection is not a big problem when playing, is not a regular thing for you to get ejected 
 from your game because of your connection. Everything about server stability is better than you 
 expected, especially when you look at the fact that this game has no monthly subscription.
  
  For the price tag this game worth every penny you spent. Just get this game now and hope well 
 meet in wonderful and competitive world of Guild Wars.
  
  Victory is Mine! 
  (Shout, You gain 10...56 Health and 5 Energy for each Condition suffered by foes within earshot)
 
  
  for my lovely Lisa, Luv u 
  -r0d inside- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blizz_kid
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 8, 2006 10:27 pm PT
Review:  I know Guild Wars has been out a long time now, but I never wrote a review for it. Being a long 
 time veteran of the game, I figure I should share my thoughts and opinions on this fantastic game.
 
  
  First, looking at the graphics. NCSoft and Arena Net have done a fantastic job animating the characters 
 and enemies in this game. The graphics are superb, making the game visually rewarding to play. 
 You'll see a plethora of effects, ranging from bolts of fire raining down on your foes to neat 
 emblems and pre-cast symbols glowing before a deadly curse or hex is cast on an enemy.
  
  Next, the sound. Jeremy Soule, composer of the Guild Wars soundtrack, has created a grandiose array 
 of music to complement this game. The tracks are varied, ranging from majestic fanfares to mysterious 
 melodies. They all sound fabulous, and he has also released, with the aid of DirectSong, additional 
 bonus packs of music to increase the experience.
  
  Gameplay is what this game is all about though. Arena Net has come up with a way for PvP to be 
 fun, fast, and balanced. You can play one of the six core professions, or one of the two (soon 
 to be four) extra professions released with Factions and Nightfall. You can be a healer, a pyro, 
 or maybe you want to be both. The great thing about Guild Wars is profession mixing. You might 
 choose to be an Elementalist/Monk, benefiting from the Elementalist's high energy to aid your allies 
 with powerful healing prayers, or perhaps a Warrior/Necromancer, stealing health and dealing damage 
 relentlessly with Blood Magic and Swordsmanship.
  
  The classes are very balanced as well. Your team will obviously do better if you have a monk healing 
 you, but that isn't to say that a team of Mesmers can't beat that team. Each profession has the 
 ability to heal itself (limited unless you're a monk or a ritualist (Factions) ) , to do damage, to 
 protect itself from damage, with the aid of a cavalcade of skills to help them along. You may only 
 bring 8 of them with you into battle though, so strategy plays a major part the game. You must 
 carefully select your skills before heading off to battle. Bringing all damage skills may be a 
 good idea, but if you start taking heavy fire, you won't have the ability to protect and heal yourself.
 
  
  There is much more to say about Guild Wars too. Too much to fit into one tiny review. All in all, 
 this game impressed me and continually impresses me daily with new challenges in the arena, new 
 places to explore that I might've missed the first time through a mission, and a vast, expansive 
 world that will keep you interested for a long time. I highly recommend this game to anyone looking 
 for a balanced fight against the rest of the world, intense PvP combat, or enthralling PvE adventures. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shade_boy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 8, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Well to start i was in EB games a year ago looking at MMOs, i wanted to buy The Matrix online, 
 but at the time my computer was a bit junky, so than i turned to WoW it would work, but i was a 
 poor 12 year old, and i couldn't aford 15 a month. Than i turned my eye and saw it, Guild Wars 
 i was just released a few weeks back and it had free online play and would work on my junky computer 
 just fine.
  
  And now two years later im still playing but with more experience, i acually started playing WoW, 
 i got lvl 52 and a lvl 42 in that, and i couldn't put up with Blizz's Bull any more, the WoW was 
 horribley broken and glichey, so i started playing guild wars again, jeez ya gotta love that free 
 play, and if you compare the two you will see Guild wars is worth more money than wow, their are 
 less gliches and the graphics give you a taste of where you are in the game. i guess i could say 
 that about WoW two but ....... 15$ a month makes me feel sick to my stomach and takes the fun out 
 of a game...
  
  Guild wars as a evalving storyline that fits perfectly into the game and explains everything along 
 the way, and the cut scenes are fun and enjoyable to watch. than like in off-line games their are 
 always twists leaving almost always on your toes. With tons of Skill and Profession combinations 
 skills never get old, and with defferent armor sets along the game.
  
  Guild Wars primarily focuses on upgradeing weapons and armor. And this all plays into PvP. With 
 a Lvl cap of 20, its main focus is on player skill and weapons, and the ability to upgrade weapons 
 and armor with runes, and bowstrings, gripes, ect. ect.
  
  It also has tons of unqiue out in the wild monsters that have rare drops. Their are tons of different 
 types of monsters in this game, and when you get tired of monsters hit the arenas and own it up 
 in PvP. One of the coolest twists in this game that none other has is hall of heros. Its where 
 players fight over favor of the gods to have the gods grante them acess into Fissure of Woe (basically 
 guild wars hell) This is where all the hard monsters with rare drops are.
  
  I would recimened Guild wars to anyone with taste of a new type of game, because you only see real 
 people in towns, unless these people are in your party of coarse.
  5/5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadly_Fatalis
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 4, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is an awesome game. It is one of the most fun games I have played in a long time. When 
 i got the game i was filled with joy. I gamed and gamed and gamed. i currently am at almost 1000 
 hours of gameplay and still going. I have all the chapters so far and have preordered nightfall. 
 If i had to recomned this game I most definitaly would Guild Wars is an exceptional game and a 
 work of art. In the beggining it may seem to turn you waya with a long lurning curve but once you 
 have this mastered the game reveals itself to you and you will see endless ammounts of gameplay. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Not-Quite-Dumb
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 1, 2006 7:12 am PT
Review:  The Guild Wars series is a revolutionary experiance for those of you that play MMORPG's. First- 
 absolutely no monthly fee, you pay for the game once then you play it for as long as you want-no 
 extra charge. Another great thing about GW is the server spinoff. The towns and outposts are open 
 to all players where you can make a party, store some items, buy this or that etc. However when 
 you leave a town/outpost, you and your party get their own copy of the server. So if i am heading 
 out on this long quest to kill an evil dragon, I can be fighting it at the same time as many others 
 are, but I am the only one in my little server. This may seem bad, as some higher-level players 
 may have been the only one to save your butt in the past, but there are alternatives to going at 
 it alone. As usual you can team up with other players in towns or outposts, but Henchmen ( NPC's 
 of all different classes that you can have join your party) can come along instead of waiting for 
 your only friends to come on and help you out. I have spent well over 100 hours playing GW, and 
 im not even half-way finished! This game will keep you coming back for more, and with one more 
 campaign out already and another on it's way, I don't think ill ever be tired of GW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saw100
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 30, 2006 1:38 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: Excellent, just excellent. There are few interesting classes and so many skills. Gaining 
 exp happens slowly, but it's not the main thing. Fighting system is just perfect, not too hard, 
 too easy and easy to learn. Each class has it's own abilities. Warrior has physical attacks, ranger 
 has skills that increase your speed, elementalist casts elemental spells, mesmer decreases enemy's 
 health and energy, monk heals with spells and necromancer drains health from enemies. It's just 
 awesome. Best part is when you can play against other players. It's very fun, though you lose often.
 
  
  Graphics:
  
  Near perfect, but not quite. World is veeeery beautiful, almost too beautiful. Men are all ike 
 from army and women are straight from model-school. There are some small problems as moving through 
 the other people. But graphics are superb and that's it.
  
  Sound:
  
  Very good, especially fighting sounds. Musics are good and heroic, they fit perfectly.
  
  Value:
 
  
  Probably the best thing in the whole game. I played Guild Wars over year and I haven't still get 
 bored of it! You could play game hours and hours and the first thing why you wanna stop palying 
 Guild Wars for 15 minutes is that you notice to be very hungry.
  
  Tilt:
  
  Guild Wars is an excellent game, no serious problems or anything like that. Multiplayer is perfect, 
 you really can't find anything like Guild Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billychanxtr33m
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 28, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  I personally never got into the whole MMORPG thing. My biggest issue with the genre is the monthly 
 fees. With Guild Wars, you get all the adventure with none of the price!
  Gameplay- Guild Wars is essentially 2 games in one. You will go through the main story of the game 
 through mission quests. There are plenty of regular quests to pick up from NPCs though. After you 
 get through the main game and reach level 20 (the level cap in GW) you can begin the true multiplayer 
 experience and take on some extreme side quests. GW is all about balance. You start by making a 
 character with a specific class, such as warrior or necromancer, but will soon pick up a secondary 
 class. Though there are around 100 skills for each class, you can only have 8 skills equiped. In 
 this way, most people go with a specific build. Of course, every build has a counter build. This 
 strategy and variation keeps the multiplayer matches fresh and entertaining.
  Graphics- This game just looks beautiful, and you don't need a monster rig to run it on max. All 
 the effects look impressive and crisp. The only problem I found with the graphics is a few rough 
 edges that will pop up every now and then.
  Sound- The musical score for GW is everything you could want. The monsters sound like you want 
 them to, and spells make big bangs like they should. Though your everyday NPC is not voice acted, 
 the voice acting for main characters and others on your main quests are well done.
  Value- Do I really need to get into how much value is in a non-monthly payment for a MMORPG? Some 
 may feel that with such a low level cap, you wont have a reason to plug the hours in for that extra 
 level. Because the game is so high about balance, you can often find yourself farming for hours 
 to get that one weapon, with that one mod, with that one skin. There are also elite skills which 
 can only be captured off the corpse of boss enemies you find around the world. Of course, you can 
 only equip 1 elite skill at a time.
  Guild Wars contains a solid main adventure, great multiplayer, and all the weapons and such you 
 can hunt the world for. With all this content, GW is pretty much a no brainer if you have a PC 
 and an internet connection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chauncey-darwin
Rating: 8.6
Date: Sep 24, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a game that you can really get into. It loads quickly even though there are so many 
 other people on the game with you. The graphics are pretty good if you have them on high but if 
 they're lower than they aren't anything special. The sound is good to. The music fits the scene. 
 Also it's pretty cool how sometimes your character gets to actually say things during cut-scenes. 
 The voices don't really sync with the mouth but that's ok. The enemies in the game are really easy 
 at first but once you get a little farther they start to get really tough. The co-op missions are 
 really fun since they are different than the others and you have a better chance to get a group 
 to work with. The guilds are cool to. Guild halls are an easy place to find merchants and priests 
 and stuff. This game is definitely worth getting especially if you are new to mmorpgs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IronSnake54
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 23, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  This game was out now for a while i was a little nervouse to buy it but i just cancled my acount 
 with WoW and im buying archlord but back to my review you must buy it it has amazing grafics awsome 
 missions the charecter creation is really good better then alot of rpg's you must get it it is 
 free and there are alot of ppl playing it good for any 1. This game was out now for a while i was 
 a little nervouse to buy it but i just cancled my acount with WoW and im buying archlord but back 
 to my review you must buy it it has amazing grafics awsome missions the charecter creation is really 
 good better then alot of rpg's you must get it it is free and there are alot of ppl playing it 
 good for any 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmanw
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 23, 2006 10:10 am PT
Review:  Guild wars is everything I believe an online game should be. It has a a lot of players and a lot 
 to do. Their are always plenty of people playing this game. Guild wars automatically updates before 
 you play. There is so much content in this game, that no one can have everything. The level cap 
 may only be 20, but it may still take up to 20 hours to get 1 character to level 20. You can buy, 
 sell, trade, explore, farm, pvp, pve, quest, skill cap, one on one, guild battles, and so much 
 more. If this sounds like a good game to you, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dakaron
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2006 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Surprisingly, Guild Wars managed to stand up to the hype surrounding it. Unlike other MMORPGs, 
 the lack of the monthly pay-to-play fees was a major deciding factor in purchasing this game. If 
 you're like myself and hate pay to play fees with a passion, this is THE game to get.
  
  Graphics: Absolutely stunning and definitely top notch for 2005/2006. I have yet to even see a 
 graphics glitch during play, and this is certainly a bonus that it has not occurred yet.
  
  Music/Sound: Incredible, though the music can be repetitive at times if you're playing for 4 or 
 more hours. The stunning music score is immersive and wonderful to listen to.
  
  Game play/Story Line: While there are a FEW typographical and/or punctuation errors in the text, 
 the story is one that is addictive while you're working your way through from start to finish. 
 The fact that there are so many side quests to help detract from trying to whip through the story 
 line is a wonderful break if you wish to wait a while before continuing on in the story.
  
  The interface is simplistic, easy to use and configure, and can be personalized in any way you 
 wish, making it just as unique as your character will be as you work through the game.
  
  Item customization is an additional bonus, if you are not planning on getting rid of the item for 
 a long time. If it is only briefly that you'll have the item, customization is NOT recommended, 
 since anyone else after the fact won't be able to use the item, unfortunately.
  
  Finally, the last point that I can think of right now that is a great feature is that both the 
 Role-Playing and Player-Vs-Player aspects are kept seperate from each other, so you don't have 
 to worry about getting PK'ed (Player Killed) while trying to complete quests and/or missions.
 
  
  Kudos to Arena. net for creating such a wonderful game, and I look forward to the third chapter 
 in the Guild Wars Saga. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Code_wizard
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 19, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  The public beta, a sight to behold. Each logon was a trip to a more polished game. The release 
 was in sight, hope flourished! Then the dark ages came. Suddenly the best of the game was cut and 
 the systems fit into shackles. Hope faded, and all was still. 
  
  Anyway what I am trying to say, the game was excellent before release then the developers made 
 some disappointing changes. Such as the starting world and not only do you have to complete meaningless 
 quests to get your second quest, you can leave the starting world without ever getting your second 
 class, eternally screwing yourself. Other changes were made, but this was the most prominent. It's 
 still a good game, but it could have been great. Oh well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nweasel
Rating: 9.7
Date: Sep 18, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  As of this review, this game is quite old, and Guild Wars Nightfall, the second expansion to this 
 game, will be coming out. But, since this game is still as popular as it was before, I will start 
 by writing a review on the original game.
  
  ------------
  
  Gameplay: It's been disputed for many years now. Guild Wars is unique, because when you travel 
 out into the real world, in otherwords, leave a city to go out and fight to gain experience and 
 to accomplish quests, you get your own world. You are all alone, with no other human players, to 
 alow you to play as you would like to play. You only have other human interaction within cities, 
 towns, outposts, etc. So, technically, this game is NOT an MMORPG, but rather, a CORPG, or a Competitive/Cooperative 
 Online Role-Playing Game. In towns, you can trade with merchants, upgrade your weapons, use your 
 materials to create armor, and much much more. You can also team up with other human players, or 
 team up with some AI players to aid you for when you leave the town. There are some quests and 
 locations that require you to team up with other human players to be able to complete them, due 
 to a condition. When you first begin the game, you are able to create a character. You get four 
 slots for characters, although I've never gotten to the point where I've made that many. You can 
 choose to make your character a PvP [Player vs Player] , or PvE [Players vs Environment, also known 
 as Campaign] . There are six different professions that you can choose from, and you are later on 
 required to choose a secondary profession as well. This game plays very unique. When you are out 
 in the explorable world, you have a choice of eight skills that you can change while inside of 
 a town. Those eight skills are assigned to the numbers one through eight, and can be used any time 
 during battle depending on the conditions required to use them. When you defeat a monster, they 
 may drop something, whether it be gold or equiptment. Over the course of the game you have the 
 option of increasing the size of your inventory, and can carry a lot. You are able to equip most 
 of the usual RPG types of equiptment, from chest, to legs, to weapon, etc. One of the cool aspects 
 of Guild Wars though, is the obvious Guild system. For a small fee you can create your own Guild, 
 and for a little more, you can make yourself, and all others who join your Guild, a custom made 
 cape to wear. You can also create a Guild Hall somewhere in the immense world of the game, of which 
 only your Guild's members may enter. In this Hall you can purchase NPCs for armor, weapons, storage, 
 and more, adding to the convience of all of them.
  
  Graphics: This game's graphics are amazingly detailed, if you have a good enough computer to run 
 it. And even without, the details are really easy to see. They wasted no time or money making sure 
 this game looks as gorgeous as possible. If you happen to be standing on a hill looking out over 
 the landscape, everything in the area, from bridges to hills, valleys to plains, looking stunning. 
 This game is a winner when it comes to beauty.
  
  Sound: The composer of the music is Jeremy Soule, who also composed the music for popular games 
 such as Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. If you have the chance, I would definately recommend purchasing 
 his music, as it is gorgeous. His music is very well made for each situation. Under calm situations, 
 the music is serene, and under a dark area, the music is very dramatic. The music is available 
 for purchase from Direct Song, and I would definately recommend it.
  
  Value: It's probably pretty obvious from the very beginning, this game is huge. After you get through 
 the first part of the game, the world opens up ten fold, and to travel it all, it will require 
 you many days to search it all. There are monsters in all areas, so finding something to fight 
 is not a problem, and you are always finding new towns to explore. This game is truly immense, 
 and if you are looking to take up a lot of your free time, this game is absolutely perfect for 
 you.
  
  Score: 9.7 out of 10
  
  Comments: Although you may get frusterated with this game if you are fighting monsters that are 
 too strong for you, there are plenty of chances to train, and a ton of areas to do so. There are 
 hundreds of quests to go on, and it may feel overwhelming, but if you relax and take it one quest 
 at a time, it'll go by faster than you'd expect. The Guild system of this game is one of the most 
 impressive that I've seen in an online game period, and can add a whole new element, especially 
 if you take them into a PvP fight. If you are looking for an Online RPG, but don't want to be overwhelmed 
 with thousands of people everywhere you go, I recommend this game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1337issweet
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 11, 2006 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Ok.... so guild wars.... where do i start? well ill start on the pretty nice graphics, if your 
 a player and you have a decent computer you ever lookaed at the landscapes around? their fantastic! 
 its a challenging game, like im a pretty instense gamer and i still dont know all i can about it 
 and ive been playing for like 2 years. So Arena net seem to be always be developing some new expansion 
 to the game like nightfall that is coming out soon (october 27th i believe) and that looks awesome, 
 factions is awesome, and prophecies is a freaking adventure for even the most experienced players. 
 Getting money in this game can be at times frustrating but at most times you get how much money 
 you need at that certain part to get the newest armour or keys or weapons. Guildwars is a great 
 game also because it is so teambased, like you cant do quests without other human players, sure 
 they gve you henchmen but they suck who may be good for the frst like few quests but after that 
 they are just a hastle and spacefillers. You join guilds, fight other guilds, make alliances, and 
 fight for the Hall Of Heroes. PLUS!!!! ITS FREE TO PLAY!
  
  i suggest this game to anyone with a decent computer and they like Massive Multis.
  
  If you 
 start playing and are intrested in joining a fun frendly guild with everything..... pm Sammael 
 The Great :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: altenter
Rating: 5.7
Date: Sep 8, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  guild war i stopped playing that game a couple months ago it got boring doing the same thing over 
 and over again with other characters. anyways the game itself is good but takes a long time to 
 make any money the quests are pointless it shuld just all missions and bonusess all around and 
 its hard to travel to one place to the other and explore even with cps or other players. and the 
 maxim level for all players is 20 and u can not go above that and some cps have levels higher than 
 that that can kill you (have level up to 46 for all monsters) . after playing the game for many 
 days i got bored of it and still havent betten the last missions i have to do and stuff. so over 
 all the graphics and sound are good but the gameplay and plots are really weak to play with. and 
 now i sign off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doomer101
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2006 6:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply awesome.
  
  Ok so how many times have you done some spawn camping? Waiting for a super boss to spawn, only 
 to see him get killed by another player? Well, theres none of that in gw. Each time you get out 
 of an outpost, You get your own private copy of the map, and you are alone there, or with the people 
 you invited in your party. Don't feel like searching for people to do quests with you? NO PROBLEM! 
 You can invite henchmen to your party at any time. Hencmen are "bots", that replace real players. 
 THey are controlled by AI.
  
  The gameplay in here, is 1000x times for dynamic than the one in other MMO games (i. e. WoW, Lineage, 
 City of heroes.... etc.. etc...) . Players don't have alot of life (relatively) , and the fights are 
 very fast. Now very fast doesn't mean they don't last long. It means they happen at a very fast 
 pace.
  
  Now another "new" goodie in this game is that the level cap is 20. Yes you heard me. its 20. Now 
 you are probably saying something like : "OMG this game is horrible... lvl 20 cap?!". Well think 
 again. Making the level cap 20 makes the players reach the max lvl faster, and get to the best 
 parts faster.
  
  Now considering the lvl cap is 20, another great thing comes into play. Later on in the game, you 
 will encounter enemies ranging from lvl 20 to lvl 31... This is a great idea, because it actually 
 emphasizes teamwork amongst players. THe probability of you going in alone and facing a lvl 28 
 and killing him is quite low... instead, rely on teamwork.
  
  Now heres a point that spawned massive controversy amongts MMO players. You can only have 8 skills 
 at a time in your skill bar. And you can only change ur skills in outposts. Most people, when heard 
 it, thought it was OUTRAGEOUS... only 8 skills???!!! WEll, reconsider what you said, if you are 
 1 of these people... While playing, you actually learn teh advantage of this. Remeber, in guild 
 wars, every build (set of 8 or less skills, usually made to work together) can be countered with 
 another. It adds startegy and fun to the game, to actually build and try out new builds, and trying 
 to create an anti-something, or a universal, or even a solo build.
  
  Another great plus is the story, that is somewhat good, and keeps you wanting to play the game.
 
  
  Another great addition : Secondary profession.
  In addition to your primary profession, you can choose a second one, and you will be able to learn 
 all the skills of both of these professions, but you will only be able to wear the armors of your 
 primary profession. NOW THIS OPENS UP ENDLESS POSSIBILITIES TO BUILD CREATIONS. And another good 
 part, is that later on in the game, you will be able to change your secondary profession.
  
  Now the community. Every MMO, has nice and rude players. In Guild wars MOST players are nice, 
 and willing to help you out. Trust me... I have played this game for a long time, and so far ive 
 had about 20 ppl i wanted to put on my ignore list, out of about 2,000,000 people.
  
  The graphics... Ah the beatiful graphics. This game has extremely low requirements, and has the 
 best gfx an MMO has ever had.
  
  Sound is great... Can't find a detailto complain about...
  
  Replayability :... CMon... DO 
 i really need to give you the answer to this?
  
  pvp: 1 word : PERFECT.
  
  And now... ladies and gentlemen... for the grand finale... i present you....... NO FEES!!!!
  
 
  You heard it... NO MONTHLY OR ANNUAL FEES. JUST BUY THE GAME ONCE, AND NO MORE PAYMENTS ARE NEEDED. 
 now this is revolutionnary.
  
  Overall : GW is one of the best MMO games of history... dont have your own copy? SHAME ON YOU!... 
 BUt, you can still redeem yourself! Go to a local store, grab a copy, go home, install it, AND 
 IMMERSE YOURSELF INTO THE GW UNIVERSE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fart_poo_cheese
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 5, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  Game Play:
  I absolutely love how the game plays. It just amazes me how addicting and fun this game can be. 
 However issues like trying to get a party and occasional rude people do take away from this.
  
  Graphics:
  Look at the screen and try not to drool. What is more amazing than the waterfall 
 coming down the steep hill and seeing the sun reflect off the water? Why my Ele showing so much 
 cleavage thats what!
  
  Sound:
  They did an awesome job with the music It really helps the capture the feeling in the air. Direct 
 Song also released some extra songs that fit well in here.
  
  Value:
  Though people can take away from your experience in GW, overall it's a fun game that's well worth 
 buying. If you enjoy fun action-adventure chat rooms and shiny colored bosses play this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizchar
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 4, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Started playing the game with low expectations after fallouts in other games, several other game 
 have seriously disappointed me.
  
  After the pre-searing storyline (a area before the actual main game) I was hooked immediately after 
 the first couple of missions. Storyline is unbelievable compared to other MMO's, whose constantly 
 changing game causes the game's storyline to become pitiful.
  
  With some quality play, you can find yourself having unbelievable fun. Wonderously entertaining, 
 much better than the average "that other mmo". And like they said, Guildwars rewards skill not 
 time so therefore the loot and items don't really matter.
  
  And the value is amazing with no monthly-fee like most MMO's.
  Try this game, it's fun, entertaining 
 and affordable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elko75
Rating: 7.2
Date: Sep 2, 2006 12:21 am PT
Review:  this review wouldnt be half as bad as it seems if i hadnt been bombarded by the hype of how great 
 this free MMORPG was. First of all this is no mmorpg by no means i hvae spent years playing mmorpgs 
 like EQ, DAoC, WoW and i can tell u its an insult to put this game in that category. This game is 
 nothing more than a glorified hack and slash like Diablo or Dungeon seige while it has quality 
 graphics and controls and is over all not a waste of time dont let the mmorpg thing fool u my guess 
 is they fed off the hype that the mmorpg world was getting and towtted it as one although vaguely 
 does it resemble one but then again i guess u cant copy right what exactly an mmorpg is . so my 
 over all impression of this game is well very disappointing : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voltage350z
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 30, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Guildwars plain and simple is a great game. It provides a solid storyline along with hours of fun 
 online gameplay that is sure to keep you busy. Gameplay: Guildwars isnt a turnbased RPG, it is 
 more like KOTOR in the fighting aspect of the game, which means you attack pretty much as fast 
 as your guy can. Which isnt bad, because if it was turnbased i dont think id like it as much as 
 it is without
  
  Graphics: Relatively good, good detail over all
  
  Sound: not bad
  
  Value: A game definately on my top 5 list of games that i would defintely reccommend for any 
 RPG fan out there who hasnt already played this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FragSeeker
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2006 5:42 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because I did not want to pay any monthly fee's for a MMORPG. This gane is truely 
 remarkable, one of the best I have played. Guild Wars allows to build a charecter in either two 
 gameplay modes, Either PvP or in a quest type Mode. PvP is the strong favourite, This is a Player 
 Vs. Player Style game where you level up your charecter by either killing monster's or completing 
 quests, This world is massive It will take you hours to explore every part of it. The Quest mode 
 is like a storyline mode where you follow the storyline of the Guild Wars world destruction and 
 the epic fight to win it back. In this mode you start at the very begining at Level 1, wheras in 
 PvP you start at level 20. This allows you to craft your charecter exaclty how you like it. The 
 Guild wars special edition come with loads of extras including a Skill pack code which unlocks 
 an armor upgrade and 7 Skills, These skills effect how you attack monster's. For example if you 
 are a warrior you might have skills like Berserk where you attack is increased a certain amount. 
 These skills need to be carefully use against different opponants which in turn adds a great deal 
 of tactic's to the game. You just cant run into a battle and hope to slash and hack your way through, 
 you need to plan your attacks before hand to get a better advantage. Guild wars offers the option 
 to have a team of up to 8 other players where you team up to battle the moster's. If you plan on 
 completing the harder quests you will need to find some other stronger players who are willing 
 to help you out. this can be a little boring. The other alternative is that you can have the help 
 from Computer bots, these are pretty helpfull but they can just walk away from a battle or just 
 annoy you alot.
  
  Difficulty:
  The game's difficulty varies throught the game, there are some quests which are very simple and 
 just require you to travel from on place to another wheras the harder missions require you to battle 
 very strong monster. There is no fixed difficuly but this game can take a while for you to fully 
 get into it.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are unbelivable, and you dont need a great computer to run this game on high.
  My 
 computer:
  Processor: AMD Athlon XP 2200 ~ 1.8Ghz (Performance rated at 2.20Ghz)
  Graphics: 128Mb ATi Radeon 9250 AGP Card
  RAM: 256Mb PC2100 DDR
  And it runs this game perfect 
 on High settings. This really opens up how many players can play this game, So there is never a 
 shortage of other players
  
  Gameplay:
  This is a truely massive game which will take you hours to complete, the world is massive and is 
 filled with other players and quests. The areas load very quickly, It only takes secounds for it 
 to load from the log in screen. The game does have to download first before you can play it so 
 if your only have Dail-up, I do not recommend playing this game. Although it does not create too 
 much lag for other players the game takes way too long to download.
  
  Summary:
  This is an epic, massive game which does not have any online fee's the other expansion packs, Nightfall 
 and Factions only add further to this game making it better. I will be spending most of my time 
 playing this game. I recomend this game to all players, either newcommers or fans of the MMorpg 
 series. It is pretty easy to get into and is very very enjoyable.
  
  Final Score:
  I gave this game a 9.5 because is it absoulutly brilliant, If your thinking of getting this game 
 take these steps, Stop thinking, Run down to your local game retailer, Buy this game. Your better 
 off getting the special edition of this game becasue of the added extras. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rlink0
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 27, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  i have beaten the original pretty much 100%. i havent explored it all, but not many people have. 
 and i tell you, after you do that, all thats left is pvp. if you havent by then, you should buy 
 factions because it has more to it and also the pvp. its a very fun game and its also much better 
 than factions. i never finished factions cuz it wasnt as awesome. it didnt have as much either, 
 and it costed more. seriously, i think this game was awesome, but because i beat all the m/b it 
 got very boring, and i had to play other games in my free time. but buy it cuz it will last you 
 a very long time and no monthly fees. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenito93
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 27, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  You've read about it all over the game chars, PC magazines, and all that other good stuff. I'm 
 sure you want to know what's up with this game.
  
  -= The Company =-
  
  ArenaNet is formed out of many ex-Blizzard employees. Many of which worked on the massively successful 
 Warcraft, StarCraft, and Diablo series. Not only that, but they have the same quirky humor that 
 we have seen in all of Blizzard's past works.
  
  -= Story =-
  
  The story is very well-thought up, and you will find yourself frequently switching alignments with 
 others, and being caught amongst many major events.
  
  -= Graphics =-
  
  The graphics are just plain uber. Surprisingly, Guild Wars has very good graphics but can also 
 run on some of the older video cards, such as a GeForce 4. A GeForce 5500 FX, which I'd say is 
 a little less than the average standard of the hardcore gamer's card, can run with almost everything 
 maxxed.
  
  -= Sound =-
  
  Guild Wars has some fairly decent sound. Just about as many combat sounds as Warcraft III, and 
 varying death sounds and such make the game less dull. There is also some decent voice acting, 
 which only adds to the game's value.
  
  -= Gameplay =-
  
  While ArenaNet claims the game revolves around PvP, this is wrong. The PvE campaign is very lengthy 
 and will keep you going for a long time. There are also many goodies, such as titles, rewards, 
 some very high-levelled dungeons, and more! There are also tons of skills. With fully-modifiable 
 attributes and skills, there is no end to the builds some people use.
  
  -= Events =-
  
  Unlike some MMORPG companies, ArenaNet continues pumping out a steady stream of updates and 
 events. These range from minor skill-tweaks to massive month-long holidays (complete with town 
 re-decorating, snowball fights, rewards, and more) . Day of the Tengu, Wintersday 2005, Halloween, 
 they're all great and add to the fun. ArenaNet also keeps in touch with their customers by making 
 appearances ingame, where they answer questions on upcoming content and such.
  
  -= Closing Statements =-
  
  In short, Guild Wars is a magnificent MMORPG, and the lack of a 
 monthly fee helps draw you to it. If you are not very interested in spending $50 per "Chapter", 
 you should play it at a friend's house or something. I guarantee it won't let you down. Guild Wars 
 brings new light to the genre of Cooperative Online RPGs, and has a bright future ahead with Factions, 
 Nightfall, and more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSPDan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 27, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  What can I say? Guild Wars has to be the most addictive game I've ever played in my life. The moment 
 you turn it on you are given hundreds of combinations of character looks, and a great choice of 
 "professions". As soon as you enter the game you are greeted by a number of relatively quests which 
 I presume are simply to teach you the basics of the game.
  
  This game has a maximum character level of 20, disappointing? Not at all. This is not a game where 
 your status is decided by your level, and you won't be spending hours and hours training to reach 
 your next level, especially when there are literally hundreds of quests to go at alone, or in a 
 party, for experience. One thing I found fun in this game was co-operative missions, giving you 
 the chance to work in teams of up to 8 players to unveil major breakthroughs in the storyline, 
 and most of all, make friends.
  
  Once you reach level 20 there is one thing to say, PvP. The PvP in Guild Wars is unrivalled, and 
 you are given the choice to make a PvP only character which starts at level 20 and lets you PvP 
 wihtout having to go through the game levelling up.
  
  Another good thing is that when exploring the map you can't come across other players, other players 
 are only visible in Towns or Outposts, which solves many problems common in other games, such as 
 KSing or Kill Stealing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iGroves
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is defiantly worth buying, and playing for many hours over the months, or even years. 
 When you first start, there is a number of professions that you must choose from, and also armour 
 colours. There is a decent amount of professions and colours to choose from to customize your character 
 to suit your taste.
  
  Its relatively easy to level, as quests make it even easier than just killing 'monsters'. The 
 maximum level is level 20, and when you reach level 20, if your a PvE, you can join in on the PVP. 
 But you can also create a character that is ONLY PVP, which is automatically level 20. Guild Wars 
 does have a good story line that you stick through-out the whole game, using the missions. Doing 
 these missions (different to quests) , there is short video scenes showing you how the story is 
 progressing. There is 25 missions overall, which you can do alone, or in parties, with others that 
 are online, or even henchmen. PvE lets you explore the world, do quests, do missions and even PvP 
 at level 20, but PvP only lets you PvP and do short quests, but you don't have the advantage of 
 the HUGE map available to unveil in PvE.
  
  The graphics are amazing, the game play is smooth if you have the correct requirements and there 
 is usually no lag, but it can occur at some points. The sound is good also, as its not too repetitive. 
 So overall, Guild Wars is a game defiantly worth having, and playing for many months, and theres 
 no-need not to have this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWEAW4LIFE
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 25, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  I normally right long reviews but Guild Wars can be summed up in only one word: GODLY.
  
  The Good: Graphics, Gameplay, Missions, Co-Op play, and everything else you find in an RPG.
  
 
  The Bad: Cannot jump/fall down ledges, lack of different character species, voice acting does occasionaly 
 does not coordinate with NPCs, emotes used for character movement during cutscenes. Hopefully the 
 bad stuff will be fixed in future titles (hopefully nightfall) . But for now the good out ways the 
 bad by about 5 tera tons, so its as if a speck of dirt has fallen onto a 100 foot cookie.
  
  To some it up: the good out weighs the bad by so much the bad becomes menial. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kazanator
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 24, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  This game is fenominal. The graphics are fantstic even if you dont have a decent computer, the 
 sound is great, the gameplay is minted! The world on guild wars has been going through the mills. 
 I has had great battles between charr and man, it has had the searing, it has had invasion, but 
 it still manages to look the best. Most of this game isnt like your average mmorpg. The world is 
 like your own little world with no other people in except you, your party the npcs and the monsters. 
 But when you go into an out post or city, it is like a breeding ground for online players. While 
 you are at an outpost, you can form groups and go out into the world and lvl up or do missions. 
 On the other hand you can hire hanchmen to help you which are computer controlled and are actuallty 
 quite efficiant. The downside to guild wars is that you can only go up to lvl 20, which is quite 
 easy, especially with the expansion pack: factions. But overall this game is a must buy for all 
 mmorpg fans!!! P. S you also dont have to pay a monthly fee like WoW and the like.! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GPAddict
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 24, 2006 11:24 am PT
Review:  I never played online games because I refuse to pay online fees. Then I saw Guild Wars and I was 
 like "Wow, it sure does look cool...". But then I thought to myself, I bet the free online play 
 is going to make it a sucky game...
  
  BOY was I ever wrong!!!
  
  Guild Wars is everything I could want in an online game and more! The graphics are awesome! The 
 gameplay is very addictive and fun in PvE and/or PvP or GvG. The server connectivity is very good, 
 I am always able to connect and the game lags very seldomly. The proffesions you can choose are 
 very well thought out as well as the skills that come along with them. You have 4 slots to choose 
 a profession which all have the choice of having a secondary profession also. The PvE has a good 
 storyline, and can be played alone with henchies, which a few quests/missions that really require 
 help from actual online players. It helps to be in a good Guild that can help you with missions 
 and answer any questions you may have. I enjoy doing missions with online players because there 
 is a dynamics to it that cannot be offered with henchman. There are so many great things about 
 this game, I could go on and on. I think the only improvement (btw the game is improving and evolving 
 all the time) I could ask for is to make more content available, but the ArenaNet team does a pretty 
 good job at that so already! I HIGHLY recommend this game! You have to play it and decide if you 
 like it for yourself. I'm so glad I did. Hope you like my review and happy game. Hope I see you 
 in the Guild Wars universe soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodders1991
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 23, 2006 4:12 pm PT
Review:  this game has got to be one of the best ney the best online game i have ever played this game is 
 amzing and the best thing is tht one you have got the game it is free from there and and the game 
 has maney maney hours of play it also has wide verity of classes and also races to be and the surroundings 
 are absolotuly stunning they are amzing. the only bad thing is the fact that he max lvl is 20 and 
 that the max wepon attack ant that high either it is like 25 which ant that hard t get onece you 
 get a lil bit in to the game but you no appart from that this game is a masterpeice and i would 
 suggest it for any one who likes ighting with mates online and making friends tooo but you can 
 also fight your mates in the arna which is a lot of fun too any question on this you cant contact 
 me on rodders1991@gmail. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyroguy305
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 22, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  First I will talk about the aesthetics of this game. The graphics are first and foremost, beautiful. 
 I couldnt expect them to be any better for a game with these minimal requirements. I also really 
 enjoyed the style of graphics. It is whimsical and yet serious at the same time. The character 
 models are excellent and the lighting makes you euphoric. The sound is alright but not quite as 
 good as the graphics. The attack sounds get somwhat repeatative but the soundtrack is good and 
 changes with certain situations.
  The gameplay is very fun also. You can change your characters weapons and armor and upgrade them 
 to be bettter. You can even change the color with dye (it is expsensive) . How the actual gameplay 
 works is that your character can fight for the country along with other human players. Playing 
 through the main campaign envolves finding these certain places where you can start a mission with 
 a party. The higher you get into the story, the more people can participate in a party at one time. 
 Once you fight in a mission, you are transferred into a private world shared only by your party-mates. 
 This is to eliminate the competition of completing goals between parties. This system works very 
 well though sometimes may seem a bit lonely if you do not take the time to join a party.
  Throughout the game you develope skills and receive moves from NPCs and by completing quests. It 
 takes a long time to figure out what skills go good with other skills and with what type of character 
 you are using. You can always ask for help from another human player at an outpost (the places 
 where everyone is in the same world) . In combat, to use a skill you simply click the icon for the 
 skill. However, you can only equip a certain number of skills at one time.
  The story is somewhat interesting though at times, hard to follow. The one downfall of this game 
 is that it is hard for new people to figure out what exactly they should be doing. But to make 
 up for this, there is infinite replay value. I have played for a good while and made at least 5 
 characters and everytime I play I come to find new quests that I missed on other times. 
  If it is not your cup of tea to do co-op missions all day then you are in luck because there are 
 many arenas in which you can fight in team pvp battles . They are very challenging as the human 
 players are very difficult but that is part of the fun. 
  Overall I would give Guild Wars for PC a 9.2 because it is an excellent game that can be hard at 
 times and confusing unless you are game saavy and know exactly what you are doing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meteor7
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 22, 2006 12:57 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a great game with great Wepons, armor, storyline, and Missions. I play this game 
 over and over leveling my guy to 20 and trying new classes, it isnt extremely easy to get all classes 
 down fast like the Mesmer and the Monk take some time getting to know, thats why you start with 
 the Warrior to get to know the game better.
  
  Story: This games story is pretty interesting and is easy to get into, the missions start out easy, 
 until they start needing total team work, they also drop great weapons and items for you to get 
 crafting items or for you to wield. 
  
  PvP: The PvP was great, but gets a little frustrating after a while, most of the time you spend 
 time cussing the other person or country out for totally whomping on the other team or just for 
 killing your guy.
  
  Death Pen: This was the thing I hated the most was the Death Penelty because after a while you 
 don't get upset at yourself you blame it on the Monk (which sometimes he wont do his job right 
 at all and make you team blow on each mission) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AllH3llbroklose
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 22, 2006 12:05 am PT
Review:  When I had first saw the previews for GW, I thought that this game was going to suck. To be honest, 
 I had thought that WoW was still going to be my all-time favorite. I played WoW for a while, and 
 then I stopped for a while and said "Hey, what the heck, ill try out this "Guild Wars".
  
  When I first started to play the game, I thought it was pretty cool. Not bad, but its still not 
 as good as WoW. I played for about 2 months straight and and my output on the game changed a bit 
 as I started to realize the pros of the game. The Alliance battles are sooooo fun in this game, 
 and it also seemed alot easier to join a guild in GW, rather than WoW. 
  
  The combat system isnt bad at all. Basically, on the bottom of the screen, you have a couple tabs 
 with certain skills. Skills vary by class (Warrior, Monk, Ranger, etc.)
  
  Also, for all the lazy players out there that wont spend loads of time on a character, the lvl 
 cap is only 20. This kinda is a dissapointment, seing that the fun in an MMO is lvling and increasing 
 the skill of your character. 
  
  The game isnt bad at all. This is defineltly on my top 10 of favorite PC games. There is no monthly 
 fees at all, which makes the game better because once you buy the game.... Thats it.... Your in... No 
 credit card, none of the 30 day keys, none of that. Your in, and thats that. GW also has expansions, 
 now avaliable (factions) , and another on the way (nightfall) . These expansion are pretty cool. 
 
  
  Get GW, pay no fees, and have fun.
  
  9.2
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: metrio
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  Now, I am one of those people that gets really bored of games really quickly - for example, I didn't 
 even get off the first island of San Adreas. But, this game is possibly THE game. Period. 
  
  The storyline is very strong and the more you play, the more compelled you feel to play even 
 more. When I was first introduced to this game I ended up having to force myself to log off at 
 3am after 7 and a half hours!
  
  The gameplay and graphics on this game are amazing. The game has never gone any slower than real 
 time for me - no glitches at all. I was shocked.
  
  This game also offers a lot when it comes to your character. Firstly, you choose what profession 
 you want: Warrior, Ranger, Monk, Mesmer or Necromancer. Then you choose you gender. Then you choose 
 skin colour. Then hair colour. Then hair style. Then........ (You get the point)
  
  So, you have your own character, although you can occasionally see double (i. e. you see someone 
 else who looks just like you) . Then you come to the game itself.
  
  Well, I don't want t spoil the storyline by telling you what happens. But right from the beginning 
 you get pulled into the story - and it's not like youre the single hero that saves the day - you 
 are part of a whole army fighting another.
  
  This game is truly brilliant. I would seriously recommend this to any person, and what I have said 
 is really only scratching the surface.
  
  BUY THIS GAME!!! ENJOY THE EXPERIENCE!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoubleX98
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 21, 2006 6:07 am PT
Review:  wow.. wow... wow.. this game is so awesome! You can have 4 characters chossing from  
 mesmer. they all have diff. abilities and skills. and another good thing is that you get a 2nd 
 profession so you can be a warrior/monk a mesmer/w/e you want ot be this is why this game is soo 
 awesome if you have 40 dollars go pick it up right now. the only downside to this game is that 
 you can only get ot lvl 20 but you can get alot of new skills and other things once you are a 20 
 so you still will spend alot of time with this game, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hitmewater
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 19, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  Guildwars is sort of a hard game. The missions that you have to do to beat the game is really hard 
 storyline. All The quests you have to do and leveling up is pretty hard as well. I have not yet 
 beat this game but i have beat the sequal Guild Wars Faction. Which is indeed the second game. 
 This game is a lot easier then the first one. But factions is a unique game because they put two 
 teams into it. Two different factions. With Territory controlling and taking over. Fighting to 
 steal each others land. Luxon and Kurzick. And if they take all the land the other team loses. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FOX-HOUND1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 17, 2006 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Guild wars is a awesome game worth every penny and it deserves the title Game Of the Year for PC!! 
 It has a great Graphics and a great, fun, well thought out game play. The game doesn't require 
 so much play time for you to be good unlike other games which makes it great! The game also allows 
 your character to battle other players against your own Character and duel to see which is better! 
 If your a pvp lover like I am I highly recommend this game! Many games offer only one good thing 
 like only a good game play but no good graphics or vise versa but this game gives it all in one 
 package! Overall a 9/10 in my book! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillErmarinE15
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 17, 2006 8:54 am PT
Review:  GuildWars is a massively multiplayer online role playing game (MMORPG) set in the worlds of Tyria 
 and Cantha (Factions) . This games is great for people who want to play the MMO genra and dont want 
 to pay a monthly fee. The best part about guildwars is theres no monthly fee as said above. The 
 gameplay is solid but it is quite repetative as in go from POINT A to POINT B, kill this, get that. 
 But its still fun its just repetative. And the main attration of these games is its great PvP content. 
 And another thing for a online game compared to other online games the graphics or absolutely beautiful 
 you can stare at the beauty in this game for quite a long time and not realising that your getting 
 attacked. and the last thing The game is really damn hard! I mean towards the end of the game its 
 like impossiable! 
  
  
  Its still woth buying though!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: runeskaper
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 15, 2006 10:01 am PT
Review:  this is a great RPG with great graphics, gamplay, and story. the goal of the game is to try and 
 defend the city of ascalon from monsters and other evil crap. you go through the game with the 
 cooperation of other players and npc's (prefferbly players since the ai of the npc's stinks) . the 
 missions get boring after a while and lag makes the game really stink but if u have a good hardwired 
 internet that doesnt disconnect then theres no lag. every time u disconnect it logs you off and 
 you have to start the 2 hour mission over!!! but other than those 2 things it's a great game that 
 will have you playing for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellrose20
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 15, 2006 3:10 am PT
Review:  it is 6 diffrent charrakters: monk, warrior, elementalist, ranger, necromancer, mesmer. its a great 
 story with 25 primary missions. and allot of quests, you can mix 1 proffesion with another in 30 
 cobinations. and you can gain titels like: explorer, hero, treasur hunter, skill hunter, wisdom. 
 and it is over 100 skills fore evry proffesion. you start in ascalon to train your hero and after 
 that you will se a movie there you see a army of ''charrs'' destroy the kingdome of ascalon. you 
 will do the missions in a groop of 4 players in the begining and in the end you play in a party 
 of 8 players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cliff122316
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 9, 2006 9:30 am PT
Review:  guild wars is a good deal of fun, but also an mmorp that is as much skill based as reliant upon 
 dedication. other games require a large amount of playtime before the player is an effective member 
 of the community, and can truly move throughout the playing world and enjoy his or her experience. 
 guild wars on the other hand, institutes a maximum level of 20 for all players, which can be reached 
 without altogether too much effort and by simply following the main story line. a great aspect 
 of the game is that the player is instantly brought into the community, and can keep their position 
 without as much time spent on remedial tasks. the game require you to have a great cahracter for 
 pvp, your build and skill with the game determine how effective you will be in pvp. the pve aspect 
 of the game is tremendously entertaining, largely because the player can advance is character to 
 an adequate level mostly through playing the main story campaign. this advances the story quickly, 
 and keeps things interesting. the game successfully avoids the long toil that defines some mmorpg's. 
 graphicly the game is an excellent looking and wide world that is on par with many of todays games. 
 it is a great value and extremely entertaining for its price point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FriendBear
Rating: 7.7
Date: Aug 8, 2006 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is one of the very few FREE multiplayer games out there, whilst not a true MMO, it is 
 still extremely fun to play with other people whilst at the same time completing the various mission 
 quests, however if no one is interested in joining the mission group, there are npc characters 
 that can be hired to join, these however are last ditch efforts though since the AI isn't great 
 and sometimes its almost impossible to finish a mission with them.
  
  The characters are pretty flexible, and another good concept which is taken from FFXI is the dual 
 class system, for instance you're primary class could be a warrior, whilst the secondary could 
 be a ranger. The player has free choice however certain combinations are so powerful they have 
 become almost the norm and people expect you to be that class
  
  I think people often think GW is a multiplayer RPG but in actually reality its almost a purely 
 PVP game since the bulk of the gameplay focuses on Guild Battles or simple deathmatch style matches, 
 in fact the pvp is even built into the tutorial so any new players who don't like pvp should be 
 aware that Guild Wars heavily focuses on it.
  
  I think GW was better on the intial release since several updates have added rare material vendors 
 and rune vendors, these all of a sudden made alot of item runs pretty pointless since you could 
 buy the rare materials to craft awesome armor unlike before where you had to really work at it, 
 to me, it was a step backwards in gameplay, oh well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 7, 2006 4:27 pm PT
Review:  About a year ago now I was excited about the Beta of matrix online and I decided i wanted to get 
 that instead of playing Guild wars.
  
  It's been over a year and every so often I'd make fleeting visits to their site. I just never thought 
 of playing it or I thought it wouldn't be a good. So I went off, played World of warcraft or other 
 games. 
  
  Now Finally, I've come to start playing this game and I've realized I've wasted my time on World 
 of warcraft and other games. This game has been here for a while now and it is simply a discovered 
 jewel.
  
  Forgetting theres no monthly fee's. This game is just mind blowing, It's SUPERB. It the better 
 version of World of warcraft. The proffession necromancer is the warlock, and the ranger is the 
 hunter. Except you can do what you couldn't do on Wow and compine the 2 classes together on one 
 character. Start as a high level player or do the role playing to unlock the skills for your pvp 
 character. Which you wouldn't get if you didn't do the RP. 
  
  There's just simply hundreds of content to keep anyone busy for a long time. Now with the expansions 
 of Factions and nightfall this game is just simply un-miserable. The website of theirs has great 
 pulling power, the sound track to the game is also one of the best, which you can buy and download 
 and have it play in the back ground of the game while you play it.
  
  In fact the only thing I can critized about this game which wasn't mentioned in Greg's review is 
 the. AI is kind of dumb, As a necromancer or spell caster you can hide behind a pillar where their 
 shots can't get u and you can fire continous spells at them and kill them, and they just stand 
 there letting you kill them instead of just coming after you.
  
  The chatting system could do with a touch up here and there. As the text you don't really have 
 an idea of whats going in with the different districts for the regions in the world. That's a lot 
 of people talking and some times it can be hard to tell what text is what or who said it rather 
 it was npc or another player.
  
  this game is a instant classic the flaws mention do nothing to take away anything from this game. 
 It's just breath taking and worth defently worth the 1 time price of 17.99 or $49.99 from plaync. com. 
 No monthly fees.
  
  and the nice idea of Telling you how many hours you've played and reminding u to take a break. 
 Is just one of the many great ideas and many new things they've done with this game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rickykruys20
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 5, 2006 2:00 pm PT
Review:  This is **** addicting now a delicious mmorpg. The game is good ad well. It and am walks do I there 
 in love with. You normally delicious through the wide world. Tasks, talk leveling round high, with 
 your friends. Only then you have reaches level 20!!! you think whata fuck is this. Only in Guild 
 Wars goes the game om round skills not round in level 60 to come. Here goes to get it really round 
 skills. That was I not quite very cheerfully with. Only it played well very good in my eyes about 
 that give I it also 9.6 i praise this game: D: D!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dessan89
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 4, 2006 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is an amazing MMO. 
  
  The graphics are stunning, with a great use of bloom effects, yet it runs very smooth on most pcs. 
 Unlike games like EverQuest 2, the graphics are good, yet easy going on your system. The spell 
 effects are exceptionaly good, and also dont create lag every time you go to cast Vampric Gaze.: P
 
  
  The gameplay is very good. Combat is easy yet very enjoyable and again, unlike EQ2, you dont feel 
 completely locked into combat. You have the freedom of movement that you do even when you are not 
 in combat. Skills are fast to learn and effective.
  
  One of the best parts about this game, is the fact that it has free online play!!! No more nasty 
 monthly fees, at the expense of the game and the expansions costing $50. But hey, thats a small 
 price to pay for no monthly fees.
  
  Play Guild Wars, and stop wasting time on WoW or EQ2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dexlove
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 4, 2006 8:31 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is the first game to satisfy my longing for City of Heroes. Played CoH solo but stopped 
 because of the monthly fee and they may it harder to solo. So one of the best things I like about 
 GW are the Henchmen, but have to keep a tight reign on them, particularly the aggro-drawing warrior. 
 The graphics and music are good. The game doesnt hog system resources and can play windowed. The 
 PvP mode doesnt require a lot of time in order to win against other players, but playing PvE, 
 you will unlock more skills. I think this is a game that can be enjoyed without sinking long hours 
 in farming and doing the same things over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scorpionsAgony
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 3, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Guildwars is the first and i think is going to be the only MMO i have ever played. The main reason 
 i like it is that unlike its rival/counterpart World or Warcracft it is based on skill not time 
 played. GW is leading MMO's into the direction they should be heading, where the players skills, 
 intellegance, reflexes and other factors are vital to PvP and PvE alike. And for those of you who 
 think those are just fancy words just to give Anet a reason not to add levels, think about this: 
 when you have reached your top level of twenty you are only about 3/5 through the game, past that 
 point you start fighting monsters that are up to ten levels higher then you.
  
  So if you can, imagine imagine yourself wandering the monster infested desert with your party of 
 four consisting of a level 20 monk, warrior, necromancer and ranger. when after fighting your way 
 past level 24 scarabs, griffons and minataurs. You discover a scarab nest which easily has up to 
 ten level 24 scarabs at a time and a level 28 queen. You charge the nest, the warrior and ranger 
 aims straight for the queen in order to take out the enemy's healing capabileties. After using 
 various condition causing skills the queen cant heal faster then the poisonous arrows and cutting 
 blows inflict and the queen dies. The necromancer uses his death magic to raise an undead minion 
 out of the queen. the group then continous to kill the other scarabs and the necromancer continous 
 to raise undead minions. All the while the monk is casting healing spells and protective spells 
 to heal and aid the others. In the end the creatures are dead and the victors reap the rewards.
 
  
  All in all GW RULES!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TrueIori
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 3, 2006 2:37 am PT
Review:  I just love Guild wars faction so i got the first one. I was surprised to find out that the first 
 one is almost better in every way than factions. Factions has the better story but the first one 
 has better mission and better skills. In the end i was glad i got the first guild wars and now 
 i can enjoy the best online rpg to it fullest till nightfall comes out. I cant wait to see what 
 Night Fall has to offer and this time i am getting the special edition one coming out in September. 
 You read right september 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrandonLeebz
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 2, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars was the first game I bought for my custom built PC and like my friends had told me, 
 it was yet another highly addictive RPG. Quest after quest got me further and further rapped in 
 the game and I loved getting better armor and leveling up to increase my strength. I found the 
 music to be very appealing and laughed at all my WoW friends who complained about having to pay 
 money to keep their subscription. While I was a bit peeved when I had to pay so much more money 
 to get Factions, the expansion to it, the additional challenge was well worth it in the long run 
 as it let my character level up much quicker. The graphics were very nice, being very smooth and 
 detailed and the multiplayer to me was average, though I am more of an FPS multiplayer person as 
 opposed to RPG. Although it was not my favorite game, from time to time I do get plenty of joyful 
 gameplay out of it. Recommended for any person interested in an RPG but not wanting to have a bill 
 every month to keep playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 123dcb
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2006 11:29 am PT
Review:  Guild wars has a sordove bad story line but the game is Great!
  U get to choose from 6 classes warrior necromancer elementaist ranger monk and messsmer. My farvroite 
 combaniation is elemenataist/necromancer beacuse with elemeantist i can put enemies on fire and 
 summon a fireball storm on them and with necro i can make a minnion with there corpse and he helps 
 me fight. Warrior is the second strongest in damage the first is elmenast. Rangers use Bows only 
 u Can Charm A ceartin creature [ like wolf ] and there ur pet and fight with u.
  Monks Are Not very strong but heal Very good [And the men are ussaly Bald]
  and mesmer well they 
 can use their enemys energy for their own use and theres an alite skill they have where they can 
 clone themselves i think and there attacks do 4 times the damage!
  
  Now for the other stuff...
  
  Gameplay: Very good the only thing is if u dont find a really 
 rare item and sell it to another player for like 2000 gold then ul probably beat the game with 
 cruddy weapons and armor. The fighting style is really good the bad thing tho is that when the 
 enmemy usses a skill the name of the skill pops up and u cant see its pretty annoying the only 
 bad thing is that if u want to go do a quest with someone and leave town he wont be with u. u have 
 to invite him into ur party and he has to accept . I give Gameplay 10/10
  
  Graphics: the graphics lokk Really realistic the water the fish everything.
  the people dont 
 look so great tho sometimes there faces are alll blury.
  but everything else lokks great tho i give graphics 9/10
  
  Sound: Its pretty good exept when 
 someones talking there mouths dont move like in spiderman 2 for the gc. but u can hear the monbsters 
 roar and everything. i give sound 8/10
  
  Value: THis beats the heck out of games like wow and runescape
  i bought this game for like 40 
 its worth 70$ 
  
  
  THIS GAME 
 
  
  Thanks for reading my reveiw 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darmi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 30, 2006 6:40 am PT
Review:  First of all, I would like to say that this is written from an entirely PvE player, so the PvP 
 side of the game will not be mentioned.
  
  Gameplay:
  A lot of strategy and teamwork is involved, and there are plenty of options for characters, even 
 within classes. There is a lot more variation than in other MMORPGs as every warrior you meet could 
 be completely different, using different skills, weapons and armor. This is a step in the right 
 direction for the genre as it allows people to play a different style of character without having 
 to level up a new one.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are pretty good, but nothing special. It has a reasonably low system requirement. 
 One problem is the lack of any lip movement in the cut scenes. The scenes themselves use the in 
 game graphics to explain the story. Another problem with the graphics is that the characters all 
 look very similar.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is fairly average, with the kind of spell and attack sounds you would expect in a MMORPG. 
 The music is alright but gets repetitive.
  
  Value:
  Scores high for being a subscription-free MMORPG but you do run out of things to do pretty quickly. 
 This is still a reasonably long game, but not when compared to other MMORPGs like WoW and Everquest.
 
  
  Tilt:
  This is a fun game to play for a few weeks, but once you complete the story there is nothing to 
 do. There is little reason to complete any of the hardest quests because you do not get a reward 
 to match the challenge. This game is a good introduction to MMORPGs and I would recommend it to 
 anyone who does not want to pay the subscription fees for other MMORPGs.
  
  Pros:
  A lot of variation in character's in terms of skills and classes
  No subscription fees
  
 
  Cons:
  Little variation between appearances of characters
  You run out of things to do too quickly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_peasant
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2006 1:34 pm PT
Review:  the game its self is a masterpiece wit over a couple of years of play. it is great as it forever 
 grows by updates on the map and missions. there is over 7 characters to chose from in the first 
 game its self when my farther brought this game and gave it to me , and played it my days filled 
 up playing this game with joy. i am a level 10 and still i have over 1000 more skills to earn and 
 buy. the wait for the expansion (guild wars factions) was the best time after it came out .it is 
 simple to use and fast to log on.
  
  email me back for your opinion or to meet up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaintIy
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  * Free subscriptions! - Buy it, play it, ace! This is how all MMOG's should be like. Buy the game 
 for a one off fee and play it without having to subscribe. GW makes all their profits by releasing 
 another expansion campaign to the original every 6 months (in which purchase is optional) . So far 
 Arena Net have released Guild Wars Factions and announced Guild Wars Nightfall with an upcoming 
 F2P pre-view event in a couple of days time! A fourth campaign has been planned! A new feature 
 has been developed that now enables players to purchase additional character slots too if you run 
 out of space :) !
  * Gameplay is superb! - You can chose between a PvP role or PvE role and explore GW in 2 fantastic 
 different paths. Skill selection is great, the maps are great, graphics are great, the storyline 
 is great. What more could you ask for? Well I've been told that once you complete the game's missions 
 there's nothing more you can do. Well that firstly isn't true, you could always take up the role 
 of PvP, unlock all the skills, chose a different profession to develop etc. But in case that wasn't 
 enough, when GWF was released an update for all GW / GWF accounts meant that players could now 
 earn titles. These represent a players true charisma, and encourages players to complete more 
 of the game to earn them. For example, a player can now spend time trying to get hero titles by 
 doing a lot more PvP battles.
  * A great environment to play in! - I have found when playing on lots of MMOGs that SOME of the 
 environments arent very enjoyable to play in because there are far too many scammers and account 
 hackers (Ive also found that there tend to be more of these in games where you can pk a lot, unfortunately) . 
 In GW the atmosphere is extremely pleasant and there are very little scammers there at all! GW 
 have also announced that they have removed, apparently thousands of accounts (that I was completely 
 unaware of) using bots to help improve players gaming by cheating! It just goes to show how good 
 the games security is, which nowadays can be just as important as gameplay in SOME cases.
  
  If you are looking for the perfect game, then this is the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zappa02
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 28, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is worth the meony becase its free and it fun to play it and the 
  games difficulty is just right. An the learning curve take about 0 to 30 minutes
  and the classification 
 rocks!! you need to go out and buy this game, with you
  can. The graphics were just amzaing I thick they did a good job on the graphics. the sound was 
 just great too. And this online game do not have in mouthly fees that the great part about this 
 game it a free online game and that 
  just rocks and kicks a@#. And the great part about this game is the level stops at 20 so you do 
 not have to way level and level and wasnt your live on this game.
  
  
  
  This game is worth it go out and buy one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: globalchimp
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 21, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  When I first read the first info on the game and saw the first screenshots, I knew I had to get 
 this game. "This is exactly what I want".
  
  I had to buy a new motherboard and processor to be able to play it, and so I did.
  
  I still 
 remember the awe I felt during the first moments I played this game and the long hours spent thereafter. 
 The graphics really are breathtaking.
  
  If you are into RPG and like questing or doing missions together with other people online this 
 game really won't disappont you. If you enjoy pvp battles against other (small) groups, this game 
 also won't disappoint you. But if you expect an MMORPG as this game was called to be, then you 
 are in for a very big disappointment. It does not deserve the title, the only MMO aspect is in 
 the towns where you rally with other members, all the playing is done "instanced" which totally 
 kills any MMO aspect of the game. Of course this is cause for many benefits I won't deny it, but 
 at a cost I did regret.
  
  The missions feel very rewarding and it is extremely fun to play. Combat feels very action packed 
 to me and feels rewarding.
  
  The items are well, not much part of this game I would say, for obvious reasons. It does not necesarily 
 matter how much time youve spent in this game but the skill of you as a person yourself. That's 
 the idea behind this game. Of course this also means that when you have the maxed out items (which 
 are easy to get) you are done getting better. At least your in-game char is. That can be a good 
 thing or a bad thing, thats up to you.
  
  I enjoyed this game for many hours and it was worth every penny. But it was not exactly what I 
 wanted, it was a great RPG but I wanted an MMO. Right now I am playing World of Warcraft and this 
 suits my needs perfectly.
  
  -This review is based on my last playing which was like 6-8 months ago-. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZhugeMarc
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 20, 2006 5:31 am PT
Review:  It's a dream we all share; to find an MMORPG that has quality and no monthly fees. Thankfully, 
 NCSoft has seen fit to bless us with Guild Wars. 
  
  Guild Wars takes place in the realm of Tyria, where an ancient kingdom, Ascalon, is under attack 
 from an invading force of creatures known as the Charr. The player will fight the attackers, and 
 eventually journey from Ascalon to the frozen Shiverpeak Mountains, to neighbouring nation Kryta, 
 the Maguuma Jungle, and other locations.
  
  There are six character classes to choose from (two are added in Factions, the second Guild Wars 
 campaign) . The Warrior is a master of the sword, hammer and axe, and is ideal for rushing in and 
 destroying enemies. The Ranger is a long-range specialist, using the bow, as well as animal companions 
 and traps, to damage enemies. The Elementalist is the mage of the game, utilising fire, water, 
 air and earth magic with devastating effect. The Necromancer leeches health and energy from foes, 
 and can summon powerful creatures to aid him. The Monk is the healer, restoring health, casting 
 protective spells or using the power of their god to deal damage. Finally, the Mesmer is an illusionist, 
 using their magic to confuse, steal health and energy, or cause various detrimental effects to 
 the enemy. 
  Early on in the game, the player can choose a secondary class - for instance, combining the power 
 of the Warrior with the healing powers of the Monk.
  
  The first thing that strikes the player when entering pre-Searing Ascalon is how the environment 
 looks. This game is beautiful. Running around surveying the lands outside the city is just as immersive 
 as the quests - which are almost always fun and engaging, be they fetching an item for a civilian 
 or venturing deep into enemy territory to kill an important leader.
  
  However, the game has some flaws. Once the main story is completed (with constant play, this won't 
 take long at all) , the only real draw is the PvP, or GvG if you are a member of a guild. However, 
 with the release of several new campaigns - Factions and the upcoming Nightfall - this looks to 
 be remedied. 
  
  Guild Wars is a perfect alternative for MMO fans if they can't afford to play others such as Star 
 Wars Galaxies or World of Warcraft, and should be prominent in any RPG fan's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cssprofanboy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 19, 2006 1:58 am PT
Review:  Even though I have not played W. o. W, I can just say this, get Guild Wars instead of W. o. W.!
  
  Ok well first off, I'm going to be going over the basics:
  
  Graphics: The graphics are 
 just amazing and awesome. Mostly every part of the game that you look at is just stunning, Characters, 
 Towns, Citys, just pretty much everything.
  
  Gameplay: Well, nothing really much to say here. Just you average Warrior and stuff. Get your skills 
 and so on.
  
  Well thats all I have to say here. (I know it was pretty short but oh well.) Go get Guild Wars 
 you will love it!
  
  -cssprofanboy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hayaoji
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 18, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  This game is all about PvP. If you like roleplaying, it has some roleplaying, but the fun part 
 about this game is the non-stop PvP. Great PvP balances and very short wait time.
  
  I like the fact that you can change your stats without costing you anything. You're offered 8 slots 
 for abilities. With that you're able to change strategy accordingly. You get to choose a main class 
 and a sub class so your character can be very flexible.
  
  I really get annoyed when you cannot jump off of cliffs. As a matter of fact, you cannot jump at 
 all. I don't like auto-attack where my character can just run up attacking them with little control. 
 I like the WoW combat more because it lets me jump and strafe. You'd probably want to jump down 
 hills and cliffs sometimes, but the game is designed so that you don't fall off of anything.
  
  Questing made easy. You're given arrows pointing your destination.
  
  When it comes down 
 to quality you get everything you're paying for. No monthly payments to keep your account up and 
 the environment and characters are stunningly beautiful. I have not seen any bugs in the game. 
 The updates just keep coming. It's a great game for its price.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Money-Mo
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 18, 2006 12:16 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: the storyline starts you off in the seemingly peaceful land of tyria
  and the crown of tyria Ascalon City. you have a choice of one of 6 professions with a 2nd prof 
 choice of the remaining 5 thats 30 different ways to play the game. you have the choice to be a: monk, 
 Powerful divine healers, warriors the battle hardened sword, hammer of axe weilding fighters, necromancers 
 the undead befreinding dark sorcerers, elementalists the arcane spellcasters weilding the 4 elements (fire, earth, air 
 and water) , mesmers the illusionits skilled in the arts of interruption and the rangers the bow 
 weilding animal-loving hippie type guys. the main story which has 24 missions (along with the thousands 
 of side quests) leads you along the path of the hero's fighting against the charr, to the undead 
 and dwarves titans and anything else you can think of.
  
  Graphics: this game looks absolutley beutiful in high rez with the odd glitch here and there (not 
 anything major) that are constantly updated and patched. the amount of detail in the flora and 
 fauna is amazing from the single leaf falling from a tree to the horizen in the crystal desert 
 then there are the eefects of every single skil that you character (s) uses. its easy to see that 
 the team at anet put ALOT of trial & error testing to make this game the best it can be
  
  Sound: this is the only con to the game. the repetative background music. you have about 4 songs 
 for each stage of the game which when you actually play it is alot of fimmiliar music. but ofcoarse 
 none of this matters when your hacking at the face of a Stone Summit Dwarf with your axe. there 
 are about 100 different grunts for each profession and gender and around 10 for each type of enemy 
 Thats ALOT of SFX. overall the sound of this game though was a little dissapointing.
  
  Definetly get this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jak_Frawley
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 16, 2006 12:56 am PT
Review:  Basically Guild wars is an Online Role-playing Game played by 1,000,000+ players from all over 
 the world.
  
  Gameplay: the storyline starts you off in the seemingly peaceful land of tyria
  and the crown 
 of tyria Ascalon City. you have a choice of one of 6 professions with a 2nd prof choice of the 
 remaining 5 thats 30 different ways to play the game. you have the choice to be a: monk, Powerful 
 divine healers, warriors the battle hardened sword, hammer of axe weilding fighters, necromancers 
 the undead befreinding dark sorcerers, elementalists the arcane spellcasters weilding the 4 elements (fire, earth, air 
 and water) , mesmers the illusionits skilled in the arts of interruption and the rangers the bow 
 weilding animal-loving hippie type guys. the main story which has 24 missions (along with the thousands 
 of side quests) leads you along the path of the hero's fighting against the charr, to the undead 
 and dwarves titans and anything else you can think of.
  
  Graphics: this game looks absolutley beutiful in high rez with the odd glitch here and there (not 
 anything major) that are constantly updated and patched. the amount of detail in the flora and 
 fauna is amazing from the single leaf falling from a tree to the horizen in the crystal desert 
 then there are the eefects of every single skil that you character (s) uses. its easy to see that 
 the team at anet put ALOT of trial & error testing to make this game the best it can be
  
  Sound: this is the only con to the game. the repetative background music. you have about 4 songs 
 for each stage of the game which when you actually play it is alot of fimmiliar music. but ofcoarse 
 none of this matters when your hacking at the face of a Stone Summit Dwarf with your axe. there 
 are about 100 different grunts for each profession and gender and around 10 for each type of enemy 
 Thats ALOT of SFX. overall the sound of this game though was a little dissapointing.
  
  Value: Best $80 of your life buy it and buy it now . you have no idea what you missing out on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akeru3
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 14, 2006 10:38 pm PT
Review:  You may think that since this is a free mmorpg its not a very good. But your wrong this game is 
 an amazing game. The Story line is pretty enteraining and action packed it will keep you on your 
 feet for hours. The graghics on this game really depends on your computer my computer sucks and 
 the graghics are still pretty good. The only thing i really dont like about it is the fact that 
 everytime you go into or out of a town or out post theres a load screen but its not too long of 
 a wait. For what its worth I think its a game worth owning. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supernast
Rating: 4.6
Date: Jul 13, 2006 11:01 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of this game I thought it could be great. A free mmorpg that was supposed to 
 be equally as good as WoW. It turns out it was one of the worst letdowns possible. Thank god I 
 got it from a friend who hated it too instead of buying it.
  
  So you buy the game and get everything setup in about an hour or two, you get on the server, meet 
 some people who shun you or spam the chat with their 6-11 year old gibberish, and start doing quests. 
 
  First off are the people. These people react to anything you tell them usually in a negative way. 
 Some of these people continuously personal message you complaining, whining, helping, talking, 
 or telling you that you are a noob. The community sucks.
  
  Dang, this game gets very repetitive after the first week of playing. Man the first week is like 
 heaven you feel like you just got a game that is as good as biting into a nice piece of chocolate 
 or cake. Then you start to get the payloads of quests that are very spread out and usually take 
 up a few hours to do. You eventually end up killing the same 3 monster types forever. Sure the 
 gameplay is pretty cool and the graphics are alright but soon enough the infinite invisible walls 
 and inability to jump will piss the **** outta you. 
  Why can't they make a game where YOU are the one in control of all the movements and actions of 
 your character (clicking mouse to attack, instead of auto attack crap) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InfernoPirate
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 13, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars just isn't really very much fun. Its ok, but it just lacks anything really special. 
 It just doesn't do anything to catch my attention and make me want to keep playing. Though, there 
 is one benefit to it that really makes it alot more worthwile, and thats the fact that the online 
 play is free. Other than that, it really doesn't do much for me. So yeah, thats what I think about 
 Guild Wars. The graphics and sound and stuff are all ok, but not the best. I'd say I feel a little 
 letdown for having payed a full $50 for it, but when it gets cheaper it would at least be something 
 to distract you from what you have to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trav_have
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 2, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is by far the best free PC MMORPG that I've ever played! I mean, with being free they 
 have made a great decision. Compared to other free of service games this one has everyone going 
 on about it. Guild Wars has a beautiful landscape and many cities to visit. If you ever need help, 
 you have tons of people online out there to ask. With many quests to overcome, each one is different. 
 Some of them are to deliver a certain item to a certain person, and some are go kill monsters and 
 report back. The play area is so large that it will take awhile to beat this baby. One bad thought 
 I have on it though is that you can only go to Level 20. That's right, 20. Most MMO's are 100, 
 but this one is 20. Okay sure it takes long but still, that's just my opinion. Overall, Guild Wars 
 is my favourite 3D MMO out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kylekatarnsbudd
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best of the mmorpg games ive ever played and i have played a few. oke the graphics 
 arn't that great but they are good i often find myself going to the remote mountains and admiring 
 the landscapes in between the missions. The sound also not that great because your character often 
 doesn't make sound and some weapons don't either but all enemys do. The music combined with the 
 landscape is AWSOME! so thats helps with the sound a bit. For a mmorpg this is very story based 
 you can't do something for six plus hors without running into the story line unless you sit and 
 do nothing. The gameplay is highly addictive as is the pvp battles you will get into with your 
 guild or on your own. The connection between your pvp character and your rpg character is made 
 very well as any skill you unlock for your rpg character will be unlocked for your pvp character.
 
  Over all this is a great game that, while it has cons, has many more pros and is a great value 
 in the fact that it will be expanded not just in things to wield and wear but its story line will 
 expand, as Factions has shown us.
  One of the biggest things is how diffrently it has been developed. it reduces lag and camp killing 
 by giving any player that goes out on there own a private copy of the game (until you get to town 
 agian) and that reduces lag even on my crappy system. it is the first truly Revolutionary MMORPG 
 i have ever seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BewilderedRonin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is proof that you don't need to charge a monthly fee in order to have a good MORPG.
 
  
  Graphics:
  The visuals are pretty and the environments look very good. You also don't need a killer graphics 
 card in order to play. I'm able to run everything on full with my 8xAGP X800Pro. Some may complain 
 about the bloom effects, and they do seem overdone at some points, but the bloom really isn't that 
 bad and is no worse than some other games I've played.
  
  All of the character models look good, though there aren't very many of them. This has led to some 
 complaining about everyone looking the same. You will see chars that look alike, but not all the 
 time and it's rare that you have a whole party that all looks identical, even if all of you are 
 of the same class.
  
  The skill attacks and effects are effective and look well done, but aren't overtly distracting 
 and flashy, and the interface is clean and aesthetically pleasing.
  
  Sound:
  The music by Jeremy Soule is quite good and I have yet to get tired of it, though some certainly 
 may. It has a very classical sense to it and is rich and melodic. The music was done using both 
 live and virtual instrumentation, but doesn't show in the least. It sounds as if they actually 
 did use a large orchestra to create the rich, full composures..
  
  The sound effects are fine, though not over the top or anything all that amazing. Sometimes the 
 sounds of an intense battle remind me of the old days of walking into a crowded arcade, as there 
 will be a cacophony of deep bass rumbles, pings, whoops, whooshes, and the cries of the dying all 
 frantically sounding from your speakers.
  
  The only negative point I have is that often times the voice-over work in the cutscenes is poorly 
 EQed. The sound level changes drastically, and usually for no real apparent reason. Either the 
 recording volume was lowered during the voice over work (unlikely) or the source object to play 
 these sounds was poorly placed (more likely) . This can be a pain sometimes and you might find yourself 
 turning up the volume knob to hear the storyline.
  
  Gameplay:
  The key binding is spot on. The default key arrangement is very easy to use, everything is within 
 quick reach. All of the commands are quickly accessible and the keys for the chat channels (!, 
 @, #, $, % (yes, you have to hold down shift) ) are pretty easy to use, and initiating chat is as 
 easy as hitting the Return Key . Or / which will also bring the chat menu, and then type your emote.
 
  
  You are only allowed to equip 8 skills at any one time, but this is done for the sake of maintaining 
 difficulty, as being able to equip all of your skills would not only be overwhelming for selecting 
 and executing them, but it would also make the game way too easy. The limit in skills is also to 
 keep a balanced sense of teamwork in place.
  
  The strength of your skills depends on your Attributes stats (K) . The higher your stats, the stronger 
 the effects of your skills will be. You increase your stats with Attribute Points from gaining 
 levels. Unlike many other MORGPs, executing a skill over and over will not increase it's effectiveness 
 or increase your Attributes. If you don't like the way your Attributes are set, you can change 
 them as often as you want as long as you are not in an Explorable Area or Mission. (you can raise 
 your stats, if you gain a level, but you cannot lower and redistribute your Attribute Points)
 
  
  The armors all provide a basic armor level, but may also be modified using runes and insignias. 
 Runes allow armors to give Attribute, health, energy bonuses, etc. Insignias provide bonuses based 
 on certain variables. For example; Knight insignias give damage reduction, Survivor gives higher 
 health bonuses depending on which piece of armor its attached to, Anchorite gives armor bonuses 
 based on how many skills are recharging, etc.
  
  Weapons work in a similar fashion. There is an Attribute requirement that must be meet (ie; req. 
 10 Air) that will allow you to utilize bonuses (+5 Energy) and damage potential (Lightning dmg: 
 10-20) of that weapon. These weapons cannot have runes applied to them, but they have two modifiable 
 parts and a slot for inscriptions (similar to insignias) . So, you could take that staff and add 
 an Insightful Staff head (Energy +5) , a Staff Wrapping of Shelter (Armor +5) , and add the Luck 
 of the Draw inscription (Dmg reduction -5 (18% chance) . As for the exact intricacies of gameplay, 
 that's something you have to figure out yourself. There is no one set way to use a Profession and 
 there is no one supreme skill set. Everything has a counter, and then some. Yes, some professions 
 work better and some skills work better in some areas, but there is no exact, specific way to beat 
 a mission. PvP is well balanced, but can be quite chaotic and if you do the same build (set of 
 skills and attributes) over and over, they will find numerous ways to counter you. Difficulty:
 
  Overall, the difficulty isn't too high. Though later on you will pretty much have to travel with 
 groups of real players because the computer controlled henchmen you can join up with are atrociously 
 dumb and will wind up getting you killed time and time again. The learning curve of all the skills 
 might take a whilst to get through. Once you find a good setup, keep it for a whilst and every 
 now and then switch some skills out and try new ones. If you have a skill you rarely use or never 
 use, then switch it out and try a new skill. There are hundreds (literally) for each class, leaving 
 a vast array of possibilities.
  
  Since finding a group to travel with is essential to being able to complete the missions, you'd 
 hope that it's easy to find a group... And most of the time it is. There have been times where 
 I haven't been able to find a group, but then I'll usually go out and farm for items or travel 
 to another location to do another quest. The Party Search Menu (P) can be quite helpful, and sometimes 
 people use and sometimes they don't. Miscellaneous:
  Guild Wars is an MORPG (Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Game) . The difference between and MMO and 
 MO is the massive part. In Guild Wars you don't have to compete with dozens of other players to 
 get a kill or to complete a quest. Once you leave the town or city you are in you're instanced 
 to an outdoor area where only you and your party are the only players. As for me, I like this setup. 
 You also don't have to worry about being PKed (Player Killed) because Player vs Player is done 
 in arenas and is completely separate from the main story part of the game.
  
  The fact that there is no monthly fee for this game is great. If you only play for 10 minutes a 
 month, you don't have to worry about feeling like you're throwing money away. But, just because 
 there isn't a monthly fee doesn't mean they skip on the content or updates. ArenaNet updates Guild 
 Wars pretty often, re-balancing the gameplay and and item drops. They also tend to do week-long 
 events during the Holidays, giving out special items like Candy Canes, Eggnog, Jack-O-Lantern helmets 
 and having snowball fight arenas. Another nice thing is that the game isn't overtly proliferated 
 with headset people. Most of the headset crowd are die-hard PvP people and tend to not bother with 
 PvE (Player vs Environment aka Storyline Mode) . So, most of the time people chat by actually typing, 
 which is cool for those of us that don't have headsets. If you decide to get into PvP then, of 
 course, you're going to want a headset. My only real gripe about Guild Wars is that in some cities 
 the traders will spam the chat channel instead of just using the trade channel. This can be solved 
 by moving to another district (another instance of the same city) , as some cities are just notoriously 
 known as trade havens (Lions Arch district 1, for example) . But I really wish ANet would figure 
 out a better way to suppress seller messages within the chat channel. But, that's really it.
  
  If you're thinking about getting Guild Wars and actually reading this review, then, if you 
 haven't already, go check out GameSpot's review for more info. Another good place to check is Arena 
 Net's Guild Wars Wiki page ( http://wiki. guildwars. com ) Guild Wars is a fun game and, in my opinion, 
 totally worth it.
  
  this review was has been edited to reflect gameplay mechanic changes that have occurred since this 
 review has been written 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4dak
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 9, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  In a world of MMORPGs that are made from the same mold over and over again. This is the one that 
 is different.
  
  The game play is easy to understand and even easier to understand. It is fluid game play that will 
 keep you entertained for hours on end. 
  
  The graphics are the thing of beauty. There is only one problem. I would like it if when a character 
 in the game spoke his lips would move to the words he was saying.
  
  The sounds are masterful and accurate to what is being acted out on the screen. The sounds will 
 put you into the feel of the game and you will get the sense of total immersion in minutes.
  
  This is one of those games that you must go out and buy the second you finish reading this 
 review. With no monthly fee, that makes this game even more valuable.
  
  At the end of the day throw away WoW, karate punch Mxo, and use your laser vision to toast City 
 of Heroes and Villains and get Guild Wars instead. It is a much better game then the rest and cost 
 less to boot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princeofblade
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 9, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a great game where the good immensely outways the bad. Despite few options in character 
 creation, arena net has given possible faces so that your character actually looks good. Or if 
 you want your character to be butt ugly, that is possible as well. The graphics are beautiful, 
 but a bit gritty around the face. The story line is great and entertaining. The PvP is nice, especially 
 if you are looking for a challenge. The guild system is nice as well, and capes have limitless 
 possibilities. The gameplay is a little difficult, especially when you are outnumbered. There are 
 plenty of quests to keep you busy, as well as the option to replay missions. Also, the fact that 
 you can play pvp after beating the storyline helps as well to keep you playing this for a while. 
 The game is addictive, and has a unique system of battle. The battle system is real time, and you 
 can make your character attack quicker. This doesn't mean two attacks at once. It means quicker. 
 Also, you can buy even more charac, ter slots, or delete one for more room. Also, you can almost 
 never delete by accident. Unless you really aren't paying attnetion. In order to delete a character, 
 you ahve to press delete, and then type in the characters name ensuring you don't delete your top 
 character while deleteing a lesser one. Also, anything in the game is never lost forever. There 
 are no, only one time items, and you redo any quest you fail. The events in the game such as holiday 
 celebrations never come back, but that is the only thing. Also, you are always getting skill points, 
 so you can get as many skills as you would like. The online play is completely free, just a one 
 time payment for the game. Guild Wars is definitely worth the 50$, as you can play it for a long 
 time without getting bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arnavdesai
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games out there and honestly I cant tell you how good the Free playing 
 is. I mean playing online for free when the others cost as much aas 15$ is really the deal clincher 
 and believe me this is worth every penny.
  
  Also although starting off was difficult there are enough nice players to help you out and guide 
 through the missions. I however got my ass handed out to me when playing this game against other 
 players. Guess I am worse than I thought. 
  However this does not mean I didnt enjoy it. It was just ridiculous how well the guys knew their 
 character and I didnt. So my tip finish the PvE and then gointo PvP arenas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RandomTask221
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 4, 2006 2:37 pm PT
Review:  First off, lets get something clear. I do not pay a monthly fee for a game I just bough, its a 
 stupid idea and I refuse to endorse any game that requires that. That pretty much rules out alot 
 of MMORPGs, but I'm ok with that. I found Guild Wars at Target to begin with, I read that it was 
 "free online", so I decided to test my luck and buy the game. (Many other friends of mine also 
 play) . It payed off, this game is very well designed, fast load times and a cool design never seen 
 before in a MMORPG. 
  
  Lets start with the graphics, they are pretty good. Some background info is that my graphics card 
 (Intel Extreme Graphics 82845G) is not supported by the game and therefore will not run (according 
 to them) . I did have some problems in the start but I installed a Windows Update and bam!, it worked 
 wonderfully. The graphics are superb even with them lagging a bit (due to my card) . The worlds 
 and landscapes are nice to look at, and it really gives you that sence of "coolness". Needles to 
 say, they are good. The sound is also pretty good, its somewhat mid-evil "Asian" sounding which 
 is pretty cool. 
  
  One thing you have to understand about Guild Wars is the fact that there are two different ways 
 to play. Either "RPG" Style, which is your traditional "Towns with people and quests", or the other 
 more unique style called "PVP" or Person vs. Person. I havn't had time to fully go into the PVP 
 modes but it seems cool enough, different countries fight for the top spots in the "Hall of Heros". 
 In the RPG mode, its a bit different then you might expect. Sure, there are many towns with people 
 in them talking, trading, and yes even dancing. But between the towns is your "own personal world" 
 where you can go out by yourself and complete quests or with a Party of friends. 
  
  Overall, this game is great, one of the best RPGs I have ever played and the fact that it is free 
 makes it that much better. If you are sick of playing free online RPGS like Anarchy, MU online, 
 and Knight Online and having to pay $15 bucks a month just t o play, then save up $50 bucks and 
 dive right into the awesome world of Guild Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Jugganaut
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 3, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  I love this game! It's keeps me playing until after the game tells me, "Please take a break". Gameplay: 
 It's great. Movement is easy to follow and the combat system is straightforward. I think the graphics 
 are amazing personally.. Not much more to say about them...
  
  I have something to say about the sound quality though... While it's great to hear the tranquility 
 in a lot of areas, there's not much more to the sound than that. The combat sounds are good, although 
 sometimes they get very repetitive and boring. Other than that the sound is great.
  
  I have a strong feeling that I'll be glued to my computer chair playing this game for atleast a 
 few more months to come. What more can I say? I love this game! :D
  
  Gameplay:10, Graphics:10, Sound:8, Value:10\
  
  My Overall Score: 9.8 :D: D: D: D: D: D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rez22
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 2, 2006 9:35 pm PT
Review:  this game is really awsome. free online play is great and the feel i get when i play this game 
 is awsome. i admit to not ever playing WoW but to all of u who cant pay the fee GET THIS GAME!!! 
 the storyline is ok but the PvP is great! people who have never played PvP or co-op games bfore 
 would think this is normal but it just feels better compared to other similar games
  this game really is one of those games that u get then u leave alone then a month or so later u 
 hop in and love it more than ever. this game just feels like a cupid's arrow when i play it I LOVE 
 IT. the graphics are really good and even if u dont have the "best" machine it probably will work 
 because it is very scaleable and another thing i have broadband but my friend has dial-up normaly 
 this would be a problem but not for Guild Wars because it runs smoothly and plays great even on 
 Dial-up YAY!!!!!!!!! this game is a must for all Online RPG fans but even a normal RPG fan would 
 like it!!!
  My favorite game of the year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chhris
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 12, 2006 12:03 am PT
Review:  First off I know its not really a MMORPG but i'll just call it that anyways. For not having to 
 pay something like $20AUD (australian dollars) a month, it is a really good mmorpg but if they could 
 have just added a few new stuff once and every now and again I would be happy to pay $20 a month. 
 
  
  PvE is pretty much the same as most mmorpgs go around kill this many monsters and you get a reward, 
 althought unlike most GW has missions where you go from mission to mission unrevieling the storyline, 
 a mission is basicly just like an instance with many one or 2 cut scences in it. GW also unlike 
 most mmorpgs has a storyline which is actually quite an interesting one. Although the missions 
 have cut scences, they are still pretty boring, mostly just getting something from one place to 
 another and just killing everything in site and their are hardly any bosses at all maybe 4 or 5 
 over all the missions. Not to many weapons and armour to get, which means your gonna end up looking 
 just like everyone else yay : (. Once you've finished all the missions thats about it for the PvE 
 not much left after that, which means it sort of forces you to play the PvP side of the game, which 
 isn't a bad thing at all.
  
  PvP now this is the best part of game, lots of different types of pvp in GW. You can just get a 
 small team of 4 party members and go head to head against another 4 man team or you can join a 
 guild and if you guild has enough people you can play GvG where 8players from one guild vs 8 player 
 from another or if you want to gain hero ranks you can get a team together and compete in the hall 
 of heros. Anyways the PvP side of the game I would say is the best.
  
  Theres also things that annoy me like that there is no auction house or something like that so 
 you have to spam out what your selling nice and aloud in the general chat so everyone can hear 
 you. Theres a lack of information and options when seeing states and information on other players 
 like there are no pet comands skill bars for your pet and so if you want your pet to use a skill 
 you have to put it in your skill bar and by the time you put in the skill to have your pet and 
 heal your pet you got pretty much hardly any room for other skills, you can't see what effects 
 your teams mates have on them or how much mp they got left you can only see their hp and you can't 
 see what level and where the people in your guild/friends list are. There is also if not none at 
 all a lack of crafting, all you do is kill monster and if you say get sticks you can take it to 
 a npc he can make it into a bow or something like that, which means if you don't wanna fight you 
 got pretty nothing much else to do. The last thing would be that like your only aloud to have like 
 9 skills at once which means it makes it really hard to choose and it sort of makes yuo feel restricted.
 
  
  I know I have complained about a lot of things in this game but don't get me wrong it is a really 
 good game and is still the 2nd best mmorpg I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombie3k
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 26, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Note: For this review I will be ignoring the expansions The Burning Crusade (not out anyway) and 
 Guild Wars Factions.
  
  Also Note: This review will focus mainly on GW. For more details on WoW please check the review 
 with the same title under World of Warcraft.
  
  One need only type in World of Warcraft vs Guild Wars into a search engine to learn just how heated 
 this debate has become. The camp is completely split into what has been termed 'the fight of the 
 year'. But can these two games even be compared? On the surface the similarities are obvious. Both 
 are online rpgs. Obviously there are others but this review is about how these two games differ 
 and the most striking difference is instancing.
  
  In GW when you step out of a town or outpost you and your party enter your own version of the zone. 
 There are no other players other then your party. This does have some advantages, namely if there 
 is a specific monster that you have to kill you wont have to wait 5 minutes for them to spawn. 
 No other players will beat you to the enemy and in some cases in WoW the wait for a particular 
 enemy can get annoying. The main pro about instancing (or con if you are that way inclined) is 
 that you will not be ganked by other players. You are safe, unless of course your party is particularly 
 inept. In WoW on a PvP server there is always a worry about who could be lurking over the next 
 hill. You pray that you don't stumble into a group of stealthed rogues. 
  The fact that GW has henchmen means that if you are alone you can still do all the quests and missions 
 without standing around waiting for a group. At least thats the theory. In practice there are many 
 missions which are near impossible because the AI is awful. There are so many times when you will 
 be cursing the damn healer for being so slow, or for attacking the enemy when she should be ressing 
 you.
  
  The Story is poor. It really isn't very good at all and although the story missions are sometimes 
 fun the actual cutscenes etc are very very skippable. Normally all rpgs at least have a decent 
 story but to be honest GW doesn't really suffer that much. You'll still do all the story missions 
 but you wont pay that much attention to them.
  
  As i have said in my WoW review everyone starts off in the same city. This is great for meeting 
 new players that are the same level as you. But really this may as well be an offline rpg if you 
 are going to do that. There is no sense that you are a real part of the world instead of some character 
 that is just going through quests and missions like hot dinners. Levelling up is quick. You reach 
 max level in no time and either you like the idea of everyone relying on 'skill' (read: whoever 
 has brought the right skills) then GW is for you. Personally I prefer the edge of having a few 
 more hitpoints or the challenge of being just a couple of levels lower that that bloody rogue that 
 just went invisible next to me. I tend to find that once you are max level some of the spark goes 
 out of GW. There is still stuff to do but little to aim for. Again its really a matter of personal 
 opinion. 
  I mentioned that whoever brings the right skills or spells will win the fight and this brings me 
 to the most frustrating aspect of GW. You can only carry eight skills or spells with you at any 
 one time. In WoW you have everything with you. While I assume this adds an element of 'strategy' 
 to the game in practice its so annoying that words can't even begin to describe it. 
  "Just one more spare slot, please just give me one more!!!!" Although if you had nine you'd only 
 want ten. OMG I hate this part of GW. If this sounds even remotely annoying to you then imagine 
 how annoyed you will get when you have to choose between a healing spell and a ress spell and you 
 pick healing and wind up the only character left alive in your party. It's so stupid.
  
  There are no professions in GW. In a sense everyone gets to gather items because enemy items can 
 be salvaged into raw materials which can be sold but there is nothing anywhere near the profession 
 system which WoW gives you. It's just an example of something which is a useful, fun diversion 
 from the grind of continuous questing which WoW has and GW does not.
  
  PvP. Yes GW does have arenas where you can battle other players but should you so choose in WoW 
 your whole game can be spent battling other players. There is always a risk of being attacked by 
 other gamers. Note if you don't like this idea don't worry because you can choose to go on a normal 
 server but PvP servers are so much more exciting.
  
  Yes GW is free. Yes WoW does cost. Does that really matter? Well yes it does but believe me if 
 you just try a free trial of WoW you will see why it has 6 million players.
  
  To conclude GW is not MMO. The cities are the only place that are MMO but there is nothing to do 
 in a city except shop and make parties. GW is not anywhere near as sociable as WoW. You can fast 
 travel to any city or outpost you have visited. But you lose out on all the fun that comes with 
 riding your bat to the nearest zeppelin. I have missed stuff out. I know I have. For example there 
 is no music in GW. Thats overexaggerated but in WoW every city has its own individual music. And 
 the music is great. In GW there is little if any music. its just another area where GW is inferior. The 
 only thing I can suggest is buy GW if you are low on money or if you don't have any friends who 
 play these games. It provides a nice introduction into online gaming. But for an unrivaled MMORPG 
 experience WoW is the best there is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigEfenRobot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 26, 2006 7:14 am PT
Review:  Good gameplay. Frustrating features. I like this game but I cant stand the fact the WHOLE WORLD 
 IS INSTANCED. Everything is outside of towns is instanced so you cant meet people outside the world 
 its just you in your part.... BOOOO THAT IDEA SUCKS.
  Also you cant have your weapon equiped in town.... BOOOOO. If ive spent alot of money I want to 
 show my weapon off in town where people are... nope.
  I seriously dont know why in the heck they wont let you have your weapon equiped. Its not like 
 you can attack other players inside the town with it.
  
  This game is filled with names like **** and stuff like that. Yeah awesome. It may be free but 
 features like that attract 9 year olds that do stupid stuff to ruin your game experience. I would 
 like to see some actual moderation of the names and what kind of chat that goes on in the game 
 like in WoW.... the rp servers on WoW are very well controlled... or maybe the players on them are 
 just more mature.
  
  Now to get on with the good things about this game
  
  Level cap of 20
  this is awesome. For those who dont have time to spend 6 months on a character 
 this is a great feature. And it feels just as satisflying to reach level 20 as it is cap a character 
 in WoW
  
  Great graphix that dont require a 3000$ computer to run.
  
  If you find a good group this game can have you hooked!
  
  Its free! Such great gameplay and 
 not a half-assed job for free! 
  
  I like this game its just the features I dont like that keeps me from playing it like I do other 
 games. Great game, pick it up if you cant or dont want to pay for an mmorpg because this is the 
 best your going to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skreetpreacha
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  Okay, so it was my first and only online PC game, so i dont have anything to compare it to, but 
 my console games, and regular PC games for my kids (Barbie, Winx Club, Spiderman and Friends, lol) . 
 Anyhoo, so this game was SOOO good, it's the only game i've been addicted to, and literally had 
 to quit it for good since it was taking up too much of my time. The randomness aspect of everything 
 from drops, to chests, to meeting and playing with different, real people online made it so addicting. 
 I understand its not a MMO in the sense that the fighting is instanced , that is, only for your 
 party. Like, you dont see other people/players in the exploratory areas, just you, your party, 
 and enemies. Though you can still chat with others while in exploratory areas, and you do see them 
 in towns and outposts. The graphics are simply amazing, as well as the epic feel of being in this 
 huge universe. The controls are usually good, though you will get stuck from time to time. (Anyone 
 who used to do FOW chest runs knows what i'm talking about, lol. Running between an enemy and the 
 edge of a cliff, seeing yourself run past them, only for the game to glitch and drag you back for 
 them to hit you. Then to see yourself run past again, only for it to continue dragging you back 
 until you die, LOL) Capping the levels at 20 is a great idea, i also understand balance is a common 
 problem for MMO's, but in my experience, this game was nearly perfectly balanced. Each profession 
 has the potential to be just as good as the other if you know what you're doing. (with the exception 
 of Minion Masters before they updated it to 10 maxed minions) . so yeah, if something does get way 
 out of balance, they will updated it, lol. I never got into the PvP and GvG elements of it much, 
 but i understand they are also GREAT. I really only recommend this to the casual gamer that doesnt 
 want to or have time to devote their life to other addictive MMO's like World of Warcraft (from 
 what i hear) that require monthly subscriptions. oh yeah, did i mention this game doesnt have monthly 
 costs to it? FTW!! because this game is actually filled with noobs who are casual gamers and have 
 fun with it. Whereas i mastered the game with a few professions, became filthy rich, and was really 
 addicted to it. I highly recommend not doing that, lol. God bless PS. i picked the highest learning 
 curve, becuz it really is that way to become a master of your profession. the vast majority of 
 players have been playing MUCH longer than 4 hours and have probably beaten the story mode a time 
 or two, yet still would be considered noobs if they arent masters of their profession. the learning 
 curve is as steep as i've ever seen in a game, because of having so many options in weapons, armor, 
 attributes and skills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f_an
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 23, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a great game and the no monthly fee really adds to the value. Once you buy it, you 
 don't have to worry too much on spending more money. It's just not what I was looking for. The 
 game is mostly geared to PvP which isn't bad: its just not my perfect cup of tea.
  
  I don't want to bash the game because it's not exactly what I was into, it's still a great solid 
 game. I kind of wanted a game where you can level up to 70 and show off to everyone in a town. 
 Where you can roam around a world and meet other players fighting and just join in and beat the 
 living hell out of the monsters. Get all these different types of equipment that separate you from 
 the rest.
  
  But instead, there is a level 20 cap limit. It actually takes a while to reach this but once you 
 hit it then XP is mostly used to get points for buying skills. Which is a great way to keep players 
 going in PvE, since skills in Guild Wars is a huge part. They range wide for each class and the 
 thing that makes Guild Wars great, are the amazing combos you can do with them. Get a party of 
 8 people and start switching around different builds of classes such as monks or rangers. You may 
 not be able to show off with your level but when someone sees the amount of carnage you can do 
 on a group of helpless monsters than they will have second thoughts on what kind of player you 
 are.
  
  Or maybe instead of beating the crap out of monsters, you can wipe out other real live players 
 in the PvP portion. This is where Guild Wars gets really original and focuses on. You can have 
 entire parties of players or guilds face others and battle out in different modes. It's really 
 cool but then that's where I see a small problem.
  
  You can either create a PvP player right off the bat that starts at level 20 (you need to be level 
 20, to start PvP) or build a PvE (player vs environment) character and build him up to level 20. 
 Like I said before, one of the main important things about GW are the skills and when you start 
 a PvP character, that's one thing you don't have much of. You can eventually buy skills when you 
 start winning battles but it's not a good way to start the game since you won't have a clue on 
 what's going on. Even if you did know, it's a whole lot better to pump up a PvE character to level 
 20. That way you can get several skills and builds together to your liking and test them out, including 
 elite skills which can help you greatly in PvP.
  
  The problem is, PvE kind of gets in the way eventually. There are tons and tons of side quests 
 and doing them all would really take a while. It eventually gets boring if you just keep doing 
 side quests, so you really only end up doing the primary missions in the PvE (which means you skip 
 half the content of PvE) . The primary missions are where you can get parties easily (of real people, 
 not computer controlled henchmen) , and the game picks up from there but then you really are just 
 aiming to finish the primary missions, then going back to pick up really good skills or XP to buy 
 more skills. The PvE is basically a way to build up your PvP character. In the end, if you end 
 up playing the game for a long time, you'll really be playing mostly PvP (you'll probably go to 
 PvE from time to time) .
  
  The thing about this is that some people might have trouble tugging through the PvE once they really 
 get half way through it. Some might just give up before they hit ascension ("finished" the PvE) 
 and just try PvP. 
  
  One aspect that didn't sound bad at first but later I wished GW didn't have is how the PvE and 
 the PvP are done. Once you leave a town, its just you, your party, some NPC's and the enemies. 
 No other players can meet you while outside the town. I actually wanted to meet other people in 
 the world, I think it would have helped a lot; being able to get other people to help you with 
 side quests more easily and making PvE a lot more interesting.
  
  Also, PvP is pretty much separated from PvE. You go into a different part of the world to start 
 it and then it becomes a match. It's not integrated into the PvE, which in the end, I think it 
 was something I was looking for.
  
  The guild system in GW, is really well done but yet again, its aimed for PvP. So you can pretty 
 much have a bunch of players that play together in PvP and aim to be the best. It works really 
 well and the capes or other ways of personalizing your guild works great too. 
  
  Another great thing about PvP, is how you can watch matches, inside the game. You easily open up 
 this window and then it'll have the most popular players and guild battling it out against each 
 other. You can watch from aside and talk to the other spectators as the game goes on. There's also 
 a ranking system with the guilds and all of it works really well.
  
  The graphics are really well done and what I like about them is that you don't need a super computer 
 to run this game. You can lower the settings and a modest computer should be able to run the game 
 at a descent frame rate. The environments look nice and the characters have really great detail. 
 The skill effects are wide in visual effects, although don't expect to be absolutely shocked by 
 some of the visuals in the skills. The sound is also on par and no sound bugs exist throughout 
 the game.
  
  The anti-hack system is really well done and how the game updates it self, or how the maps load 
 quickly adds a really nice touch to the value of the game. Not only that but there are no monthly 
 fees to this game, which is one of the reasons why I got it and it really helps the value of the 
 game.
  
  Overall, GW is PvP based. The PvE is really nice at first but it will get in the way a bit if you 
 play more and more. In the end, its really about the PvP and the PvE is just there to help your 
 character and guild out, meet new people and do some of the hard sidequests at the end of the game 
 with your friends. The skills are really great and how you can have different builds and mix two 
 classes together is a great addition to the game. It's just not what I really wanted in the end. 
 You can't become level 60 or 100 and do all these crazy things in the PvE; the game is mostly a 
 PvP game in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tagger04
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 22, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  At first, I really didn't understand everything in the game. I didn't understand how get better 
 armor to start. (Thanks whoever showed my that) I started off as a warrior. When I first figured 
 out how to move I followed the simple directions and learned how to fight and use my spells. I 
 then began to do alot of the quests which tended to be very fun in most cases. When I finaly thought 
 I was done with most of the quests I went on to the "post" era. This is a huge area with TONS of 
 map to explore and monsters to kill. I am very happy that there is a level cap (Level 20) so I 
 didn't get left to far behind everyone. I can't forget the PvP (Player versus Player) mode. In 
 this mode you start out on level 20 and get to customize yourself from the best armor. Then you 
 can form a party with four other people and fight. In all I think this game is definatly worth 
 any amount of money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ub3rnerd
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 20, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  Guild wars offers a very basic approach to the world of MMORPGs, but still delivers a very great 
 game. It starts out slow, but not too slow and lets you explore a kind of n00b zone with some easy 
 monsters and not really any extremely difficult missions. The number of things you can do is limited 
 at this point. You can't open your storage and you cant do very much multi player gameplay because 
 of the limit of two people per party. But, it works out seeing as this is but a taste of the game 
 to get your feel for things. Once you have your feel of the game, and you're at the desired player 
 and monetary level, you can proceed with the main quest. All the game's options open up to you 
 now, but are all those options really enough? There are certain things that I like to see in any 
 good MMO, and one of them is crafting. Even in the worst of MMORPGs, like Dark Age of Camelot, 
 the crafting was great. There is something about having the ability to make and sell your own hand 
 made items that adds a new level of addiction and enjoyment to a game. The closest thing that Guild 
 wars offers to crafting is the ability of having armor and weapons crafted for you, but not crafted 
 by you. And those items crafted for you can only be used by you, so there is no chance of selling 
 them off to someone that could actually use them. Instead, you have to give them to a merchant 
 and get crap for gold for it. The only other beef I have with the game is the level cap. The highest 
 your character can reach is level 20, and while that is fairly hard to get to, it is far too low 
 for an MMO of its caliber. But really, when you look at the whole game, it is still one of the 
 best MMORPGs out there. It may lack some extra features that make a game more addictive, but the 
 shear gameplay and storyline of this game is enough to keep you hook for hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheDevilRath
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 20, 2006 7:23 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best RPGs out there, so large and diverse, plus to top it off you don't have 
 to pay monthly fees, what could be better. There are so many possibilities to create your character. 
 The five main classes are a ranger, warrior, monk, necromancer, and an elementalist. These five 
 can be made into any combination you can think of. Personally I haave a W/Mo, an Ele/Mo and a R/N. 
 This game is highly addictive and it has a great community. Everyone is willing to help you no 
 matter your level of skill in the game, and they wont charge you and try to rip you off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danyjr
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 19, 2006 11:01 am PT
Review:  Okay, let me make it simple, Guild Wars is not an MMORPG, so if you are an MMO type of guy, you 
 won't necessarily like this game. Guild Wars is defined as a Coorporative Online Roleplaying Game. 
 They game is much about your skill than the type of gear, profession (a. k. a class) .
  
  There are different professions in this game, each functioning diffeerent. You can learn up to 
 two professions at a time (one Primary, one Secondary) . Warrior (tank with loads of armor and pretty 
 good damage) , Monk (healer) , Mesmer (debuffer) , Elementalist (primary magic damage dealer) , Ranger 
 (hybrid class with a pet) and Necromancer (dead summoner) are your choices. The classes are balanced 
 very reasonably unlike some popular games (World of Warcraft for example) in PvP.
  
  You have two choices when you start the game, either creating a Roleplaying character or a PvP 
 character. In the Roleplaying camaign, known as Prophecies, you level up from 1 to 20 (level cap) 
 while discovering new content of the world, new people and unlocking new spells and abilities - 
 which can be used on your PvP character as well. PvP characters are, as they sound, for Player 
 versus Player purposes only. Guild fights, random fights are examples of what you can do when creating 
 a PvP character.
  
  The world of Tyria, where the Prophecies campaign takes place, is designed beautifully. Great graphics, 
 beautiful world, superb music and massive combination of customizable player outfits makes Guild 
 Wars an amazing experience in online gaming.
  
  Overall, I love this game. I was switching between MMORPG's for years and I was playing World of 
 Warcraft for more than a year until I discovered this amazing game. In MMORPG's you have to grind, 
 grind, grind to get better gear, because the gear is what matters in PvP in MMORPG's. In Guild 
 Wars, though it is not an MMORPG, it is a COPRG- gear level doesn't matter. It is skill that makes 
 you superior to one another. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dinghy_Dog
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 19, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  :Good Idea:
  I wish other people would get this through their heads. Just because you make a MMORPG doesn't 
 mean you have to charge a monthly fee. This game is totally free and rarely lags. It's fantabulous!
 
  The graphics are really cool loooking and they run at amazing frame rates. It's a game that is 
 not only fun, but smooth running as well.
  Really great Player Vs. Player. It plays more like an action game in the PVP universe than the 
 other PVP games out there. It's a really nice change.
  
  :Bad Idea:
  The biggest complaint any RPG fan would have with this is the level cap. Get ready for it... the 
 highest level you can go to is level 20. That's right. A big 2-0. And it doesn't take long to get 
 there.
  Even though the PVP is amazing, sometimes one PVP match will last up to an hour. I've even been 
 in one that lasted 2 hours. Why? Because you can respawn so basically your team has to kill off 
 everyone as quick as they can or at least narrow it down to 2 people.
  Compared to World of Warcraft, it's hard to navigate and figure out what to do next.
  
  :Overall:
 
  If you have a tight budget and want to get into a MMORPG, this is the game to get. It's fun, 
 addicting, has some cool weapons and special effects, and will keep you glued for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theguardian524
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 17, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  The new MMORPG sweeping the market! Most games that have been created like this such as Ever Quest, 
 World of Warcraft, Diablo, Etc. All require the player monthly fees for continual play. Guild Wars, 
 although the original price of $50 is said will never change; does not have continual monthly fees 
 to play the game. This game alows the player three different aspects of gameplay.
  
  For those players who desire a simple single player storyline quest to follow without playing with 
 people online. You can recruit Henchmen to help fight with you in missions that require a party 
 of people to enter.
  
  But for those of you who wish to do a storyline quest with friends and other online players. You 
 can form a party up in towns and use all your unique combonation of skills to conquer your foe!
 
  
  And for those players who would just simply like to do Player Verses Player and arn't really into 
 levelinf your character, you can just simply choose this option of PvP Only. Here you can start 
 with a high level character and fight with partys in the Tournament Guild Wars!
  
  (Worth buying, and playing)
  
  -Andrew, The Guardian
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daigleberry
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 16, 2006 1:46 pm PT
Review:  I got into GuildWars merely to hold me off until I purchase WoW. I wasn't expecting much, despite 
 the really good review that Gamespot gave it.
  
  The character customization sucks, and the only 'race' available to play is human (which is good 
 from a storytelling point of view, but leaves out a lot of options for variety) .
  
  However, once you get into the game, you see some great graphics. The beginning quests are a bit 
 too easy, but until a certain "event" takes places, the game is pretty much a tutorial.
  
  The 100% instanced fighting areas are hard to adjust to at first (it gets lonely out there) but 
 for someone like me who actually prefers soloing, it's a nice change of pace. I don't have to worry 
 about anyone trying to steal my loot!
  
  Also, it's very very handy to be able to open up the map, select an area you have already journeyed 
 to, and be able to instantly arrive there (saving plenty of running around time and turning it 
 into actually 'playing' time)
  
  But the best thing of all? NO MONTHLY FEES!!!!!!!!
  
  All in all, I'd say that I'm still ready for WoW, but Guildwars has been a nice 'rebound' from 
 my Everquest days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sprkeller
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  This is an excellent multiplayer game for groups of people that like to game together, or if you 
 are good at random party hookups. Thus, I wouldn't recommend playing it by yourself all the time. 
 The game doesn't start to come alive until you play with other people. Other than that... It is 
 the best game I have played to date. The graphics are astounding and character building is totally 
 unique to the normal tree feats I had been used too. Also, the ability to "recreate" your character 
 by switching Skills and Attribute points around make your old characters playable even after you 
 have maxed out the levels. I don't think I will ever be able to stop playing this game. Plan on 
 getting the next one and the third one as soon as possible 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hadrael
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 4:49 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a wonderful game. The game is never ending and there are many different ways to play. 
 To start the game first of course you have to buy it, then you put the CD into your PC and you 
 install it. After that no more CD is needed, which I think is Super awesome. You must create an 
 account, then put in your CD key. Each CD key can be used one per each e-mail account. So if you 
 have a friend that wants the game, you can let them use the CDs and they can purchase the CD key 
 online. Once you have your account created you login and two choices appear. These choices determine 
 what kind of character you will get. The choices are between, Roleplaying Characters which let 
 you explore the vast world of Tyria, form parties to complete quests or to just fight monsters. 
 or the Player versus Player characters which will start you off with level 20 characters that are 
 used only for PvP fights. For the beginners it is best to choose RPG character. You will be able 
 to get the feeling of PvP in this mode anyway. 
  
  When you have chosen what type of character you want to make you get to fully customize your characters 
 appearance. First off you choose the profession that your character is going to be. There are six 
 professions: Warrior, Monk, Ranger, Mesmer, Elementalist, and Necromancer. I will give full detail 
 on these later. The featuers you get to customize are the Hair Style, Hair Color, Face, Gender, 
 and body size. There are many choices so you most likely will never find another character that 
 looks like you in the same area that you are in. Also in the game you will acquire different dyes 
 that allow you to change the color of your armor and weapons. 
  
  Now about the different professions. The Warrior class is for those people who like to be a tank 
 and adore melee combat. The Monk is for people who like to use holy magic to heal allies or damage 
 enemies. The Ranger is the archer of Tyria, using the bow and adding poison to arrows is its specialty. 
 The Ranger also however gets to have a pet. The Mesmer is a supporting caster with a wide variety 
 of spells to strengthen allies spells and spells to deal damage. The Elementalist is a caster who 
 uses the elements against its enemies. Finally but definitely not least is the Necromancer. The 
 Necromancer is for people who like to control undead and suck the life away from enemies.
  
  Guild Wars is unique with its system of outposts and towns. When you enter a town or outpost 
 you will be able to interact with other players and form parties. Then when you and your party 
 are ready you go through the blue portal and exit the town or outpost. When you enter the world 
 you and your party have your own copy. No other players are there so you don't have to worry about 
 others trying to kill you. This may seem like it is no fun but with the game being how it is you'll 
 enjoy this aspect greatly. One thing about the game is how it downloads new content while you play. 
 If you have not been to a certain area and you go into it the game automatically starts to download 
 the new files and when it is complete you are back in the game.
  
  I myself haven't gotten into the PvP aspect of the game yet but I have had a taste of it and let 
 me tell you it was intense. The main aspect of it is that your team needs to beat the other team. 
 The first team with all members dead wins. This warfare takes much knowledge of how to combat different 
 types of enemies and a keen knowledge of your own abilities. There two main variations of PvP. 
 There is the type where you join Random people in an arena or there is the Guild versus Guild. 
 The GvG is when your guild fights against another guild to gain the favor of the gods.
  
  This game is one of those games that once you start it is hard to put down. This game will easily 
 give you more than 100 hours of gameplay. The world is ever expanding and more challenges may await 
 every time you log in. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuiv
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 5, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  RPGs can be very very boring when played A LOT. So then you probably throw it aside and wait until 
 you are in the mood for it in a year or so. Guild Wars is a massive muiltiplayer game which is 
 fun and you don't need to pay. yay.
  you will need a good internet connection to play this game well.
  this game has many cool features. 
 
  cool stuff. (weapons, armours, spells, and more) .
  one bad thing would be that everytime you make a new charcter is that you will need to do the beginners 
 part which is like learning how to play is mostly it.
  Everything else is pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quills_GW
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 2, 2006 9:06 pm PT
Review:  this is a game that mostly everyone is happy with .. becaus eof what ... FREE ONLINE PLAY!... well 
 thats what every review wrote about... they are hapy with the free online play.. and blah blah.
 
  well... to be honest .. i really think that the free online play is a good thing.. secondly, is has 
 great graphics ... cool skills... and a fair system where you can only equipt 8 skills at once.
 
  BUT .. the bad stuff are... your charcaters do things pretty much the same... as in.. when you attack... you 
 see them attack the same way over and over again... and also... when you are playing the game.. you 
 would have to have a party to do a quests where you aren't good enough... but... when ask the players 
 around who wants to do a quests... pretty much no one cares... maybe 1 or 2... but thats it... and 
 of course there will be guids... but guests what.... your guild memebers will be busy with their 
 own stuff and don't even want to help you.... and in the end.... you go out with henchmans.. which 
 are bots for you when you have no one to do quests with... therefore .. it's all these things that 
 other players do that really grinds my gears.. and soon... this game will be bored.. but if you have 
 friends you know playing with you... that will be fun.
  Other than all that.. this is a really great game .. but IN MY OWN OPINION... this game still have 
 no fight with world of warcraft ... but my advice is.... get this game .. play it... because maybe 
 some of you will love this game..... so try this out.. if it doesn't suit you.... well... it's time 
 for you to enter the WIRLD OF WARCRAFT! haha!... anyway i have been playing guild wars for like 
 9 months!... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jangojedi4
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is NOT AN MMORPG. (Some may dissagree with me, but I see it very clear now that I've 
 actually played the game) 
  I bought Guild Wars with MMORPG on my mind, but i was wrong. One thing that contributes to my thought 
 is the fact that you MUST follow the set storyline that the game shoves at you. (By "must" I mean 
 that if you don't, and try to follow your own route through the game, you won't get anywhere.) 
 The second contributer to my idea is that there is NO CRAFTING OR MATERIAL GATHERING of any sort. 
 (Yes, you can salvage "crafting materials" from certain items and weapons, but you have to take 
 them to armor smiths and still have to pay them to make the armor you want.) Without crafting, 
 mining, fishing, or anything else, Guild Wars can loose your attention after a while (For me, it 
 was a month or two) , since all you can do is quest and fight, quest and fight. When you start another 
 character, there is really no difference between your past character and your new one, just with 
 different ways to kill your enemies. 
  For those who don't know, Guild Wars requires no online fee because it doesn't require very powerful 
 servers. [Keep in mind that you have your own map when you go into explorable areas.] (The world 
 map is broken up into smaller maps, so what someone does on one of the maps doesn't effect someone 
 on a different one, or even the same one, if you're not in the other someone's party.) Questing 
 with other players is completely optional, so whenever you go soloing or out with henchmen (computer-controlled 
 party members) , a server is not required, since you have your own map. The only place where semi-powerful 
 servers are actually required are the towns and outposts, where players can actually interact. 
 Games like WoW require a fee because the world is all connected, not broken up like Guild Wars. 
 (So, they need much more powerful servers.) Get it?
  Some other cons of Guild Wars is the restriction of armor to professions. (A warrior can only wear 
 warrior armor, a necromancer can only wear necromancer armor, etc.)
  Guild Wars does have some good parts though. Its graphics are superb, the world is lush and beautiful, 
 it sounds ok, and the design is wonderful. The ability to change attribute points and switch around 
 the distribution of them is really nice in order to customize your style of fighting further. The 
 game is easy enough to get ahold of, but I kept learning about various more things even after several 
 hours of play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darklinksbro
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 31, 2006 9:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is just as good if not better than WoW just to let everyone know 
  
  Graphics 
  Amazing graphics for an mmorpg not the best but, still great textures and land scapes. Although 
 when your making your character the pretty much all look the same.
  
  Sound 
  The little bit of music you get is good but there isnt always music and some of the weapons don't 
 make sounds. 
  
  Gameplay 
  Addicting right when i started i played for five hours straight the action is a little basic but 
 this games is like diablo 2 on crack great i love playing this game. I also have to say it's free 
 everymonth and also adds to it's appeal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 31, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  This is an absolutely Massive Game. I never played an on-line game before this purely because of 
 the money you need to spend just to play. This game has no subscription fees witch makes it a winner 
 already in my books.
  
  The characters are absolutely awesome. Obviously it is not Sims so you can't really put yourself 
 in the game, but there are enough options to make your character distinct both in looks and abilities.
 
  
  I like that all the characters have their own strengths and weaknesses. This made in really difficult 
 for me to pick on a race. They are all unique and they are all really well designed.
  
  The world is really really well designed and it is a feast for the eyes to play this game. It seems 
 to surprize you it doesn't matter how long you run around, with new scenery and very little load 
 screens.
  
  The vast landscape also holds many enemies and a lot of other people to trade with. But the one 
 think I can say that is not always a good thing is that the gameplay can get a little repetitive. 
 Unlike games like The Matrix On-line, the characters do not have a multitude of moves they can 
 perform and you are basically left with a guy or girl that does one move over and over, unless 
 you use one of their cool powers. 
  
  The powers make it a little easier to beat the opponent but it does not make it a walk in the park. 
 So it is a nice balance.
  
  All and all I am pretty happy with the game and I am looking forward to the expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sillyhippo
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 28, 2006 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a perfect game for a gamer interested in a competitive pvp game. As for pve, it is 
 more of a grindfest to unlock skills, something most players don't enjoy. However, this review 
 is centered on the fun part of the game -- pvp.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Gameplay is amazing. Well-balanced skills with skill updates every season (typically 3-4 months 
 per season) , and a well-designed game engine. There are 5 basic types of pvp:
  Arenas (random or teams; this is the simplest form of pvp)
  Hero's Ascent (formerly Tombs of 
 Primeval Kings) /Hall of Heroes (tourney-type games)
  Alliance Battles (12v12 matches centered on holding posts)
  Competitive Missions (pvp missions 
 disguised as pve missions)
  Guild vs Guild (the main feature of pvp; at the highest level, hardcore ladder competition) .
 
  
  Arenas are good enough to get people started. Go into arenas on even a premade character, start 
 up random arenas, and go in. You're immediately in a group, play until you win ten straight to 
 unlock team arenas. By then, you've hopefully gotten enough faction to unlock a decent build instead 
 of the horrible premade builds. Then, find a group in team arena and play until you win ten straight 
 again in order to unlock Hero's Ascent. From there, find yourself a remotely decent guild, HA with 
 them a bit and get into gvg. From there, it's simply commitment that can take you to playing with 
 the best. Most of the community is full of total idiots; it is wiser to be careful about suggestions 
 made by people in forums and figure out if they're decent before trusting anything they say. However, 
 the small niche of pvp players is comprised mostly of mature, intelligent people, regardless of 
 what pve farmers may say about HA rankism.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  The game has good graphics that can run about any system, and they make good use of the available 
 hardware.
  
  SOUND:
  I really don't like the sound in the game for pvp. The only useful sound is the skill effects for 
 certain hexes to identify them, but the slider for that is linked with those of useless battle 
 cries and weapon strikes that are useless. On the other hand, the music is decent but it is usually 
 better to turn it down in order to hear teammates on ventrilo/teamspeak.
  
  VALUE:
  This game is an amazing MMORPG (or CORPG as the devs call it) that is on par with WoW and doesn't 
 have a monthly fee; it's easy to spend 2000+ hours playing this game and not getting bored for 
 just 50 bucks, 100 if you buy GW: Factions.
  
  TILT/EXTRAS:
  Plenty of recently added extras, such as scrimmages and observer mode, make the game really easy 
 to get into, while letting you get eased into the pvp side of the game smoothly. The learning curve 
 is set high due to the time needed to unlock the skills and to learn all the ins and outs of the 
 game, but to understand the basics just takes an hour or to. 
  
  BOTTOM LINE:
  A great competitive pvp game that is on par with, or perhaps even superior to, World of Warcraft, 
 that does not require a monthly fee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tstock25
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 26, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars isn't really an MMORPG and this is something that discourages the majority of the users 
 after they've been playing for awhile. To those of you looking for the next Everquest or World 
 of Warcraft, you should look else where. That being said, let's see what Guild Wars actually is...
 
  
  When Guild Wars first hit the scene, the developers kept saying the same thing about the game. 
 They wanted to create a game where you could compete in a balanced Player vs. Player environment 
 and not have to pour your entire life into creating a character in order to do so. With a maximum 
 level of 20 on all characters and over 400 skills (Not counting the new skills added by the new 
 Factions chapter) between the original 6 classes, players are able to mix and match skills and 
 attribute points (Each player may have a primary and secondary class and has 8 attributes in which 
 they can put points into) in order to make a character that suits their style of Player vs. Player 
 strategy. Players have their choice between competing in the Random Arena (Characters are put into 
 a random team of four players and pitted against another random team of four players) , the Team 
 Arena (Players choose their team of four and compete with other teams of four people) , Hero's Ascent 
 (Players create a team of 8 and compete with other teams of 8 and fight to complete certain objectives 
 (i. e. Holding an "Altar" or large hill, destroying the opponents Resurrection Shrine, defeating 
 the opponents team) ) , and Guild vs. Guild (Players who are in a guild compete with other guilds 
 in 8 player vs. 8 Player competition, where a team tries to break through their opponents defense 
 and defeat the opponent's Guild Lord) . The Player vs. Player world is diverse in both opportunities 
 and choices, but many players complain of "cookie-cutter" builds (A team with specific requirements 
 that require little skill to win with) .
  
  If the Player vs. Player world isn't your bag, the Player vs. Environment world offers an interesting 
 storyline and a plethora of explorable areas. A player can spend a very long time exploring and 
 traveling the diverse terrain of Tyria, but the amount of explorable terrain in the Prophecies 
 campaign (The campaign you play in without purchasing Guild Wars: Factions) is limited. The storyline, 
 missions, and quests supply a large amount of content to be explored but they can be completed 
 in a short amount of time.
  
  Unlike other MMOs, Guild Wars doesn't depend separate servers for separate characters. Guild Wars 
 has multiple districts for cities and areas where players interact with other players and also 
 has instanced zones where players battle monsters and explore. Lag isn't much of a factor as a 
 result, most lag is either caused by the intense graphics of the game or by the player's connection.
 
  
  On to the score explanations...
  
  The gameplay is something that can be picked up quickly as it allows players to put their own spin 
 on their characters abilities and skills. 
  
  The graphics are astounding. Every environment is detailed and there is definitely no shortage 
 of landscapes to explore.
  
  The music is well orchestrated and the gameplay sound effects are well made. The sound is good, 
 but nothing exceptional. The developer's allowed people to purchase other "sound packs" with different 
 music.
  
  The value of this game lies in it's complete lack of monthly fee. For $50, you join an immersive 
 online game with a large, diverse community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordjamie
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 26, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  online multiplayer rpgs are very addictive no matter how many games u will play theres nothing 
 like leveling up and watching ur character grow and playing with friends. and me and my mates love 
 meeting up and fighting together or againest each other on games. but there usally is a fee.
  but not with guildwars!! all u do is buy the cd rom!
  
  theres two modes to guildwars pvp and 
 roleplaying in role playing theres two campaines (storys) normal and factions. the normal story 
 goes like this. ur a new warrior and some creatures attack a city and completly destroy it and 
 its up to u to help rebuild this old empire by doing quests. on the way u travel far and wide through 
 many great locations. ascalon city, kryta and many more.
  
  factions is an expanstion to guildwars it lets u choose from more weapons to more races and i think 
 a new story and world.
  
  if u choose to make a pvp only character u hav the chance to make a high level and powerful character 
 from the word go. but u will not be able to use the story instead u will fight againest other players.
 
  
  loads of players play guild wars and its a good chance to make friends 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jumpyz
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 24, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Recently I was at Best Buy with a few dollars to blow, and my eyes spotted Guild Wars sitting at 
 the shelfs. Let me just make it clear, I knew about Guild Wars for some time, but did not have 
 either the time or money to purchase it, so now that I saw it i decided to buy it. 
  
  After installing the two disc CD and reading the nice and impressive guide with the few stories 
 I started the game. I created the new account and was instantly baffled with the amazing graphics 
 of the game, at the character creation window. Having a thing for Hunters/Assassin's I was instantly 
 drawn to the Ranger class and created my character, and started my Prophecies Campaign.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  Never before have I seen graphics as splendid as those in Guild Wars, there is 
 no flaw, although I have experienced some graphically related difficulties.
  
  Sound 7/10
  While the sound is amazing it is not always there in the game, and not as loud as 
 I would wish it to be. The sound effects are awesome.
  
  Story 9/10
  Let me just say this I am not far in the game but as far as the Krystal Dessert and till now the 
 story has held up real strong.
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  No flaw in this category, but there are certain times where your character feels like a ton and 
 does not move as smoothly as in other cases, this usually happens when there is another character 
 standing at the ledge before you and you are trying to walk back.
  
  Community 10/10 
  This section always proves a nag for me in many games, but in this game the community is as awesome 
 as the game.
  
  Overall Impression A+++++
  BUY IT ITS A MUST! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: highflyer800
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 20, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  guild wars is a fun game but comes with some problems. the one main thing that makes you happy 
 is that its one of the first free MMO. the graphics are nice and there seems to be little to no 
 lag on my computer,.
  one of the main problems is that the world is really big and can really be explored by 4 or 6 people 
 at a time. there also seems to be some problems like you might get stuck in a wall or somthing. 
 the guilds you can make are cool and you can even have your own guild cape that looks total different 
 to other people's guilds. even thought there are somthing problems with in the game its still pretty 
 soild with fun gameplay. if you have'nt got the game and your thinking with buying it then try 
 it out first because it might not be what you thought it would be like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Green101
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 20, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of my favorites. its really un the the beggining but i think it lacked soem things. 
 it could have used more wepons, more pets and mroe armour. now i understand the lvl cap was made 
 to make things equal but i think it could have been better if it were different. Now im not sating 
 guild wars is bad but its unique. they should have made a lot more quests because compared to other 
 mmorpgs they have thousands of quests and yes i know this is not a mmorpg game. well overall i 
 think this game is based on teamwork and is pretty good and worth a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unarmedmaster
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 17, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  One thing I love about this game is the free online. The game was given to me by my step brother 
 and its actully a MMORPG that is free online but not super sucky graphics such as Runescape. It 
 is awsome how much you can do at the online price. Of course there is a limit.. such as charecter 
 creation. You can not jump, sprint, (unless with a special spell) , climb or crawl. Those may seem 
 like un important things but in there interity they are very. The graphics were excellent. MY radeon 
 X 1300 256 could handle it well so as long as it isnt a regular PCI it should be fine. You can 
 make Clans (Guilds) wich is pretty sweet with custamizable capes. You can only go up to lv 20. That 
 is a bit low in my opinion. WoW is 60 and I think it should be somewhere around there. Ah almost 
 forgot. It is pretty cool how The US. servers and the Euro Servers are constantly versing each 
 other. Which ever has the favor ( more wins or something) can go to a special area with special 
 items. You can have 2 profesions and every type has a weakness and a strenght. You can sit there 
 and watch AI's Die its sweet. Over all replay is very high graphics are high and Storyline is good. 
 Alot of things you can do based much more around story line and quests not so much how you can 
 make your guy look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kay262
Rating: 6
Date: May 17, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  After playing a char to the maximum level ( lv.20 ) i can say the game is average at best.
  The only great thing in this game is the stunning graphical artistry. Music is good too but the 
 content of the game is quite pitiful.
  The game is great for a few hours (til you reach level 7-8 and leave the pre-seering Ascalon) , 
 when you start the game you get spoiled with awesome graphics, very promising gameplay elements 
 and some decent quests. 
  After that, the games many shortcomings become more and more evident as you play.
  Yes each char 
 has like 60-70 skills but 99% are completely useless in coop mode.
  The few skills that are useful have recharge times and/or mp cost that make them pretty useless 
 too.
  You cannot go anywhere on the maps, you are restricted to a fixed path most of the time so its 
 rare that you can use any strategy at all.
  The gameplay is unbalanced and hectic, it is impossible to play solo, it is impossible to play 
 without a full party of experienced players, good luck finding those when you need them.
  Yes you can hire henchmen but you cannot control anything they do, they are weak and have pitiful 
 AI, they take most your exp and money, and no you cannot progress in the game with the henchmen 
 because the game is simply not balanced to allow that.
  There are precious few items and equipment to be found or crafted, the "rare" coloured items are 
 most of the time worse than the ordinary items.
  I assume the ludicrous difficulty is designed to cover the lack of content, the game is not nearly 
 as big as you might think. 
  I really wanted to like this game, wonderful graphics and a system that is novel and has lots of 
 potential ended up in an average product thats only fun for a few hours, sad, very sad.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yumi_Merrick
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2006 9:05 pm PT
Review:  Ok we all had a chance to play Guild Wars by now, and if not stop playing what ever game that you 
 have at this time and at least check it out. This game has it all Beautiful Graphics, Real Life 
 sound (not counting any sound made from spells... lol) , and your Friends can join in on it so that 
 make Guild Wars a Awsome Game. There are tons of pro and cons about this game but to see them for 
 yourself is what trial and error is for. So to wrap this Review up go... outside and buy this game 
 and try it out your really like a lot thats why I gave this game a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Mccloud666
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 14, 2006 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Im sorry but this game just got boring after about a week. After playing WoW for 11 months and 
 then quitting due to the bill, then hearing "Guild wars is so awesome and very well worth playing", 
 im sorry no its not.. its good for maybe 3 days then just sucks, the fighting style is reptively 
 boring, the only way you can party is by going to a town or outpost which beats the fact of a "MMO", 
 the quest just plain blow and are no fun once so ever, PvP in this game is really boring, this 
 game sourd of reminded me of a barbie adventure more than a good MMO.
  
  The graphics in this game are good, very well textured, nice styles to choose for your characters 
 but whats the fun in that when you cant have fun with it, you just run around looking for quest 
 anywhere which without a party you will probably die and get more frustrated or the quest is so 
 boring you just get tired of it.
  
  The music and sound to this game is also good and sets a nice mood but when you start yawning you 
 will loose that mood and wish you wouldnt have just spent 50 bucks on this.
  
  Overall i would say this game is something to have if you want to waste time.. nothing really to 
 get into seriously like you could on WoW. 
  
  A 2 out of 5. =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagnaSummoner
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 14, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Well this is a very very good game, indeed. First of all is a massive multiplayer online game and 
 you don't have to pay monthly fees, which would be a real pain in the neck. Second it has great 
 graphics and a beautiful soundtrack. Then you have 6 classes from which you choose two and each 
 one has inumerous skills that you can master. The world is absolutely huge and detailed and monsters 
 vary from place to place. 
  Now let's see the thing where this game fails. There's a lack of puzzles, so basically you just 
 have to be able to kill everything that crosses your path and move along to the next town. So in 
 the end this game becomes just a kill-kill adventure, where you won't need to work your mind in 
 puzzles, just real for some tactics when you see a mob blocking the way.
  Anyways it is still an awesome game and at least you take almost a year to beat it, so you shouldn't 
 have any doubts as to spend your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spiora
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 14, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  I'd heard about this game. I heard about the free online. And it's worth every penny. There aren't 
 that many pennies needed, but still.
  
  Gameplay is great. Navigation in the world feels a bit strange and sometimes it is a bit hard to 
 find a group, unless you know them. Besides these shortcomings, flawless. I know I usually mention 
 bad points only, but PvP deserves a mention, which is the main reason to buy the game. Every aspect 
 of PvP is awesome and some of the best in any MMORPG. However, the highest level is only 20. But 
 since the expansion is out this hardly matters. The problem is that towns serve as a hub to find 
 adventuring parties and each party gets their own copy of the map. That means you must take time 
 from your quest to go trade things with other players (but you can warp from town to town so it 
 isn't too bad of a problem.)
  
  Graphics. Oh, man these are perfect. The world, the armor, and just everything is beautiful.
 
  
  Sound is okay. The constant grunting and repetitive music seems to get on my nerves.
  
  Value. The price for the game is normal, but this game is free to play unlike most MMORPG's 
 on the market. So if you've always wanted to play an MMORPG but hated the idea of a monthly fee, 
 this game is for you.
  
  My tilt is only a 9. Why? Because controls feel strange. This tones down the greatness of Guild 
 Wars a bit, but overall you must buy this if you are a fan of MMORPG's, or are new to them since 
 you hated monthly fees. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ndt4508
Rating: 8
Date: May 14, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is great for the new comer to mmorpg and does not want to pay the $15 a month for another 
 mmo aka (WoW, SWG, Everquest and so on....) When you step into Guild Wars you will notice the steller 
 graphics the game offers although the sound soon becomes a problem due to being very repetitive. 
 Luckily there is a sound pack you can download! at a cost.....  ( The game also offers many different 
 types of gameplay such as random arenas and so on. The highest level of tournement (Hall of Heros) 
 play becomes very frustrating due to the games awkward ranking system. Most of the groups require 
 a rank of 3. (rank is obtainted by winning in the Hall of Heros) yet you can not get rank due to 
 rank 3+ groups not letting you get in and you lose most of the time in unranked due to the high 
 level of 8 year olds playing.
  
  Another problem Guild Wars has is its corrupt econemy. You can't hardly go anywhere without seeing 
 the same items being sold. The city districts are full of people spamming to sell items. There 
 is no auction house or anything of that sort in the game because their would be over 500+ of the 
 same item posted evan if it was extreamly rare so do not look for an auction system ever being 
 emplamented.
  
  I do have to admit the story missions are fun (once you get into a group which can take as much 
 as 2 hours) The missions follow a story line that makes you want to just keep playing.
  
  Another of the many flaws are, you can beat the entire game in the matter of hours. One of the 
 things that left me most frustrated about is the profession you chose may never hardly be used 
 sort of like necros taking place of warriers in groups. ( necros minions have replaced warriers 
 for tanking)
  
  + since factions came out anyone who is just begining to play GW falls evan further behind on pvp, 
 skills, rank, money and items. 
  
  Overall Guild Wars does offer somewhat of a fun experiance at times but be prepared to wait longer 
 to sell, or get into a group then actully playing and having fun. 
  
  I do reccomend this game to most people but be perpared to get frustrated over and over and over...... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark-Explow
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2006 5:26 am PT
Review:  ***ONE OF THE BEST MULTYPLAYER GAME***THIS GAME GOT REALLY GREAT GRAPHICS AND GAMEPLAY ITS FUN 
 YOU CAN TEAM UP TO 8 PLAYERS, AND DO SPECIAL MISSIONS, IT GOT FUN SECRETS YOU NEED TO FIND AND 
 NICE MISSIONS. I RALLY LIKED THE SOUND OF THE GAME ITS GOOD GAMEMUSIC. LIKE WORLD OF WARCRAFT THIS 
 GAME DOESN'T COST THAT MUCH MONEY AND IT IS ONLINE TOO. ITS NICE TO PLAY WHIT ALL DIFFERENT CHARACTERS. 
 BUT IT IS SOMETIMES HARD TO GET A PARTY AND TO LVL UP. BUT IF YOU LIKE WORLD OF WARCRAFT, DIABLO 
 ,...... THEN I GOT JUST TWO WORDS TO SAY BUY IT MATE YOU SHOUD GET MUCH FUN WHIT IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbjunior92
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 13, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  Here are my main beefs: The interface, the customization, and the interaction with the environment. 
 No jumping, no going down steep hills, limited interaction with the environment. The interface 
 is a tad clunky, and I'm still learning it. Way too many people look identical, and character customization 
 is a bitter joke.
  
  The plusses are that this game has beautiful scenery, graphics, and the animation itself isn't 
 all bad. It would be a lot more enjoyable, perhaps, if I'd never played World of Warcraft, which 
 seems to be a lot more environmentally rich, and immersive. I have more playing to do, as well 
 as some more exploration before I come back, and give my final score, but my initial findings are 
 that I'm not altogether overly impressed with this offering, and given the reviews by so many others 
 here, I'm forced to wonder just what the heck it is that has so many people find so appealing about 
 this game! 
  
  I'm going to continue to play it, and I just may eat my words, but man... World of Warcraft was 
 AWE inspiring. This is... Anything but that, for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reallifebatman
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 11, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  I bought Guild Wars because I was looking for a way to get away from the monthly subscription of 
 several MMORPGs I am subscribed to, and it has indeed filled that void. With Guild Wars Factions 
 out now, this original title, has come down in price, which made it at the price I was willing 
 to pay.
  Entering the game was easy, but there is little backstory to get you sucked into this new gaming 
 universe, however, after the first 8 hours, the game advances two years, and everything you have 
 come to know from the game is suddenly changed. This build up is very well done, as is most of 
 the rest of the game's story through cinematics.
  Graphics were okay, they were more realistic than say... World of WarCraft, but not as polished, 
 animations aren't as fluid, but the terrain is gorgeous.
  Sound was rather unimpressive, though the music is amazing, the monster sounds tend to all sound 
 the same after a while, as does most spellcasting.
  I'd recommend this game to just about anyone, even if it is the fill the void of World of WarCraft's 
 maintainence, extended downtimes, unscheduled maintainence and if you can't find a Priest for UBRS, 
 this game will fill that void. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Handsome2max
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2006 3:17 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME RULES. IT IS WITHOUT A DOUBT THE GREATEST RPG GAME I'VE EVER PLAYED. I STRONGLY RECOMMEND 
 THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! ON A SCALE OF 1-10 I GIVE A 20! THE GAME IS VERY EASY TO PICK UP, SO IF 
 YOUR NEW TO GUILD WARS IT ONLY TAKES A MATTER OF MINUTES BECAUSE OF THE HELPFUL TIPS THAT THE GAME 
 GIVES YOU. THE GAME LETS YOU CREATE A CUSTOM CHARACTER IN 1 OF THE SIX OF THE CORE CLASSES: WARRIOR, 
 MESMER, RANGER, MONK, NECROMANCER, AND ELEMENTALISTS. THIS GAME IS SPECTACULAR!
  
  
  GUILD WARS FACTIONS, I ALSO HIGHLY RECOMMEND, IS GREAT AS STAND ALONE, AND IS EVEN BETTER IF YOU 
 LINK WITH ORIGINAL GUILD WARS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hawkaron
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 6, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  After hours and hours of playing this game since the release, I've decided to write a review though 
 I really do suck at it, and neither am I intrested in writing. You'll have to excuse me for the 
 occasional awkward english, as it's not perfect and not my primary language.
  
  Guild Wars is Guild Wars, not World of Warcraft or Final Fantasy XI, neither is it Diablo 2 though 
 there can be some similarities. It was developed by a team consisting of some ex-blizzard employess 
 after all, ArenaNet and NCSoft. They've surely done a great job on this game. I have to say this 
 is one of the most enjoyable games that I've ever played, in my entire life, and maybe even forever.
 
  
  The unique gameplay and style for this game is a perfect combination between a MMORPG and, let's 
 say, the battle. net style lobby. Even if it can be pretty empty sometimes when you're in an explorable 
 area, as you can only meet up with other people in towns and outposts, you'll be able to enter 
 the same area with people in your party. The party is formed in the meet-up areas (towns and outposts) 
 and as in other MMORPG's, you'll be able to fight other monsters or do the story-driving missions 
 together. Cooperation is a very strong part of the game and can be pretty frustrating sometimes 
 for the unexperienced, but by having some discussions with the team as for which skills you should 
 equip and what kind of tactics you should have, you'll surely be able to complete everything without 
 any problems. However, getting a team that's willing to cooperate, or rather being more social, 
 can be hard in times. I would recommend you to join a good and friendly guild for this, not to 
 mention they need to be mature, as they'll be willing to help you most of the times. This way you'll 
 be able to rely and trust on people in your team. The skillbar, the bar with free slots there you 
 can add skills, is limited to the small ammount of 8. This was a really good thing that they came 
 up with, and will insure you to really use your brain and teamwork. When you enter an explorable 
 area (areas where you can PvE and explore) , you won't be able to change the skills you have in 
 the slots. it can only be done in the meet-up areas, so choose wisely and equip the most necessary 
 skills you'll be needing. Discuss with your team, and when everyone's ready, rock on! This game 
 absolutly relys on teamwork. You won't be able to do it on your own, so never think that you're 
 the best and rush straight into a group of mobs. Be sure to keep your team noticed as for which 
 mob you should attack first and which route would be the best. Guild Wars has got this useful dynamic 
 mini-map that you can "draw on" and click anywhere on it to notice the team where you actually 
 mean in the area. There's also something called as calling, which usually is done by tanks such 
 as warriors, or people with high-range attack, the ranger. What you basically do is to hold the 
 ctrl key at the same times as double clicking the monster, and it will notify everyone in your 
 team which monster you're actually attacking. It will also blink on the mini-map where that monster 
 is located for the moment. This useful and intresting system in Guild Wars does make the teamwork 
 alot easier.
  
  The PvE aspect of the game is really fast-paced and can be really cool to watch. The effects on 
 the skills are awesome, so the battles will always insure you to have your attention. You can get 
 killed within seconds if you don't concentrate during a fight, so be sure to always have a look 
 at your HP and your party-member's, especially monk's. They are the healers of Guild Wars and will 
 keep your team alive. Monk's will be really necessary on the later stage of the game, but in the 
 beginning, you'll do pretty fine even without one. As Guild Wars is PvP based, the PvE part of 
 the game ends pretty fast, but enjoy while the PvE aspects of the game lasts. There's something 
 called PvP awaiting you at the end, which is... AMAZINGLY good in Guild Wars. The GvG (Guild versus 
 Guild) battles are the most enjoyable part of the game and will keep you busy for the rest of game. 
 Hence the name. When PvPing, you can either choose to just have some fun in the Random Team Arenas, 
 which will choose a random team for you. if you don't like randomness, and prefer to build and 
 choose a team yourself, go to the Team Arenas. There, you will be able to form a party that will 
 fight a random opposing team that's formed by other players when you enter the battle. Don't except 
 the PvP to be like the other games. It's using a unique system, so it might take a while before 
 you get used if you're a native MMORPG player.
  
  If you ask me: Is this a game for everyone? Then I would say no. PvE is a weak part of the game, 
 though the combat system has got potential, but because of the lack of dungeons and various instances 
 like in WoW, it will end pretty fast. If you're looking for a traditional MMORPG game that mostly 
 concentrates on PvE and grinding, this game won't last long for you. If you truly love fast-paced 
 PvP that requires thinking and teamwork, then this game is what you've always been looking for. 
 Do NOT miss it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azaiel
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 6, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a pretty unique game in its own right to be fair, it is a hybrid of genre's when 
 you break it down, its a Solo / optional MMO Roleplay campaign and then some very awesome PvP battleground 
 style team or guild based action.
  
  The core game is superb the visuals are quite stunning the landscapes look incredible and the detail 
 on the characters is unmatched by most games in the online genre. The sound really is nothing special 
 but it does it's job well to provide the right kind of atmosphere for the game.
  
  The majority of the game is based in the Roleplay campaign where you have to start a character 
 and work through alot of PvE based content including hunting areas, story based scriped missions 
 and tons of side quests. Sadly for me this is the games weakest point. The combat system is solid 
 and the enemy AI can be quite challenging at times however it feels extremely repetative after 
 a short while and by the time you have completed a few quests or done some missions it can become 
 a little tiresome. Most of the missions are basically "fight your way to point A find some items 
 along the way and dont die!" and this system is used for pretty much every mission.
  
  The PvP element of this game is where it can get very interesting especially if your in a well 
 founded guild with high level characters to aid in the combat. You can make a fully decked out 
 character from the get go with the best armor money can buy all the top end weaponry and spells 
 and then use them in all the PvP battlegrounds for either guild based wars or simple player matching 
 style battles. However thankfully you can not log these charaters into the roleplay environment 
 at all you can only chose what style of PvP battle you would like to fight in.
  
  When all is said and done Guild Wars is a solid game but after a good while of playing it can become 
 tiresome to work through the roleplay campaign but still the PvP component is in many ways its 
 saving grace and a welcomed change of pace when you simply cant run through another quest or mission. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_Slapshot_X
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 4, 2006 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Where do i start? Guild Wars. This game is excellent, a mmo thats free and worth your time. i Have 
 personnaly played WoW and D&D, Guild Wars is by far the best. The graphics are amazing, the music 
 is just right, this game requires pure skill, not hours played. Many people say this game is bad 
 because the lavel cap is 20, but that makes it mroe of a chellange to yourself and your allies. 
 One thing i can say to you though, if you dont have a guild dont play, Guild Wars is a team game 
 not solo. 
  PvP has got to be the best part. After the story line, there is much to do but the thing i like 
 most is the PvP, there are many modes for begginers, novices and experts so there is always a chellange. 
 
  If there was one thing I would change about Guild Wars, it would be a longer story line. If you 
 are playing with good people the story line will be short, you can sk ip the quests but they are 
 a great aspect to the game.
  
  
  Overall, Guild Wars is the best game ive ever played, free online play, awsome gameplay, skill 
 not spent, this game rules. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andy-t-
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 4, 2006 5:16 am PT
Review:  I have decided to review this version after the new factions as i wanted to express the excitement 
 that this gave me and everyone who played it.
  
  This game was the reason for the sequal, it was so popular the creation of districs were put into 
 place. So popular it was hard to get your hands on a copy. So popular, they expanded the bounderies 
 of the game (map) and updaterd it everyday POPULAR, we could never have of experienced Factions, 
 the game that is set to be the best every MMORPG Stand-Alone Follow-Up ever. I just want people 
 to understand the significants of this game, and the reason why it has filled a huge hole in the 
 history of MMORPG, and i am dying to see any more guildwars on the horizon to expand the world 
 of fun and laughter that is Guildwars!
  Thanks for reading :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevo50
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 2, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Well, I played this game for a couple of months... the only problem was the story line is ALWAYS 
 the same... and that kinda bugs me (i can see why they didnt make it big and several story lines 
 since its.. free.) I mean i thought it was a good game in all, but I think it is only good to play 
 it once... i ran out of stuff to do but....^^ this is all my opinion so you may make the decisions. 
 Also After you make your character its a constant grind for armor/weapons... after one thing you 
 try for another, its a constant chain. Well in the end the only problem is the same story line... i 
 know they came out with factions... BUT its the same thing, you beet that and you do the other faction 
 and your just doing the same story line over again... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AcydRaine
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 30, 2006 10:59 pm PT
Review:  The game is about a fictional place called Tyria, with technology of the middle ages. It fulfills 
 all the fantasy needs, swords, heavy armour, fireballs etc. THE GREATEST OF ALL FEATURES IS NO 
 MONTHLY FEES!
  
  The gameplay is very fast paced and action-packed, every second counts and teamwork is essential, 
 it may seem quite hard to excel in the game, but learning is a piece of cake.
  
  The graphics are amazing for a game of this time, although not top of the line, the graphics are 
 enough to make you drool over. The sound effects are very delicate and the music is wonderful. 
 I mean, by Jeremy Soule winner of awards, how bad can it be.
  
  Last but not least, in a online game, the community is important, Gaile Grey the public relations 
 person always visit fan site forums and discuss the game, and many reported chatting to her in 
 game, and there are always improvements and updates which makes Guild Wars a better game.
  
  I recommend this to nearly everyone, and since Factions is out soon, you better get that.
 
  
  -AycdRaine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SacrificiaLamb
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 30, 2006 12:05 pm PT
Review:  I'll give credit where credit is due. This is indeed a nice-looking game that has very modest hardware 
 requirements for the visuals it produces. The scale of the landscape is impressive, albeit very 
 lonely due to instancing.
  
  The gameplay itself doesn't have a whole lot going for it. Combat is pretty dull and requires no 
 skill - your main attack is automatic and your only strategy involves firing off spells/skills 
 as they recharge. Party combat is simple as well - keep your tanks up front and focus all the party 
 members' attacks on one monster at a time. Once you get the basic premise of it, combat has very 
 little variance or surprises - it's simply a matter of using the same spells in the same order 
 and watching your opponents' hit points steadily drop to zero then on to the next one.
  
  The quests generally involve moving from one end to the other end of a map, requiring you to clear 
 out pretty much all the monsters in the area as their aggro is high and the paths are narrow. There 
 are also optional quests which offer skill rewards - killing boss monsters, freeing prisoners, 
 putting out signal fires, etc. Because of the instancing the world lacks the continuity and change-ability 
 of most MMORPGs (Guild Wars is not an MMORPG in my book) . Once you leave a zone and re-enter, everything 
 resets to its original state... same monsters in the same positions, etc. The city/town hubs are 
 basically waiting rooms for the next mission where people buy/sell stuff and form groups. Forming 
 groups with other people can be a crap-shoot. If you end up with even one moron in your party, 
 the whole mission will probably be lost, as I've seen people aggro huge mobs on purpose. The NPC 
 party members are decent although always under-leveled compared to real players, and the AI is 
 pretty crappy, especially the healers.
  
  Character customization is highly overrated. There is one prototype for each class gender, so basically 
 everyone ends up looking like clones of each other, just in varying heights, skin/eye colors.
 
  
  The magic items are terrible in this game, very generic and underpowered, even at the highest level. 
 Wow, I have a gold wand that increases my fire magic recharge rate by 20%. The 'fancy' armor, like 
 the stuff in the Citadel or the Grove may look nicer than Drokknar's, but it offers no additional 
 protection, and it costs an insane amount of resources. So after you've finished the main quest 
 and most of the side quests, your primary objective in SP will be gathering the 80 million resources 
 needed to assemble Fissure armor. No thanks.
  
  I tried the PvP a few times. Not too great.
  
  Strangely, while I was playing Guild Wars, I 
 found it somewhat addictive, though not very enjoyable. From start to finish, the SP campaign should 
 take at least 150 hours to complete, so you do get many hours of play per dollar. It has been a 
 long, long time since I last logged into my account, and frankly I have no desire to pick this 
 game up again even with the new release of Factions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hazard_FN
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 30, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  I would sometimes just start this game to drool over the beauty of the surrounding oceans and trees, 
 it's a game like no other some may compare it to warcraft but the fact that this game is one you 
 pay for once it makes it so much the better, Pay-2-Play killed online gaming in my opinion and 
 from what i've read the opinion of some others to. The interactivity in this game is great, you 
 can go online with friends and fight together and do the same missions together, the best plan 
 is if you all start together and progress at the same time as one another to really get the interactivity 
 the game is capable of giving, with tournaments endless items, caves missions and engaging plot 
 all in one multiplayer package with no glitches (as far as ive encountered) takes some real dedication 
 from the Guild Wars staff i would thank them personally for making this game if i was important 
 enough to know these people, it's truely aspiring.
  
  The sound can be annoying and the voices are quite cheesey but thats a small dirt stain on an otherwise 
 perfect cloth, The only fault i can really find is I GUARANTEE after your first character you will 
 want to start again as you make tonnes of mistakes on your first character as you progress through 
 the game and thats not much of a fault with the game as it is the diversity of the controls and 
 things to get your head around so its a high learning curve! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vapor188
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 8, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Here's a game for those RPG junkies that don't want to spend all that money on World of Warcraft. 
 It's a decent game with opportunity to provide hours of fun.
  The game has decent graphics, but they're nothing to get too excited about. It has a variety of 
 quests and events that you can participate in. However, the combat system is a bit lacking in entertainment. 
 It's not quite turn-based action, but it isn't close to real-time fighting. The point and click 
 method can get old after a while.
  There are a variety of quests to do all ranging in difficulty. They have short and long quests 
 depending on what you feel like doing. The double-click method of traveling to cities makes it 
 so you don't spend hours running from place to place.
  The music in the game give you the Lord-of-the-Rings feel most RPG's have and makes the time spent 
 running around a bit easier. The sound made by monsters, people, and such is simple, but not bad.
 
  All in all, it isn't a bad game, but for you intense MMO RPG gamers that have to spend hours and 
 hours... and maybe a few more minutes after that... playing the game, this game is not for you. 
 This game provides enough entertainment without sucking the life out of your soul through the monitor. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: achilles01
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 30, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  I'd like to start off by saying that NCSoft has done a very good job with GuildWars. This game 
 is very appealing to many casual or hardcore gamers who don't want the $15 monthly price along 
 with the $50 box price. This game is a pleasure to play and immerses you into a deep and fun to 
 enjoy story.
  
  Graphics
  Graphics are very beautiful on this game. I found the textures to be very clean and they have done 
 a great job on the shadow and lighting effects. My system is a P4 2.66GHz, 1GB ram, and a 6600GT. 
 I was running the game very smoothly at 1024x768 with no framerate drops whatsoever. Graphics freaks 
 will have nothing to complain about in this department.
  
  Gmeplay
  The strongest asset to GuildWars is its solid gameplay. The learning curve is about 30 minutes. 
 People have had their doubts and complaints about GW being an MMO because their is no out of town 
 interaction other than your team, but this has not bothered me at all. Guild wars has 6 main character 
 classes to choose from, Warrior, Elementalist, Ranger, Monk, Mesmer and Necromancer. These professions 
 vary greatly and have their own special skills and uses throughout the course of the game. All 
 together, there is about 480 skills for all the six professions. Fighting is your average point 
 and click MMO fighting, but GW adds its own twist to this with its many skills and having your 
 team of 4-8 players fight along side you in battle. The story is great and really gets you hooked, 
 but I will not spoil it. All I can say is it brings you through many different regions in the land 
 of Tyria, the continent where GW take place, ranging from mountain peaks to the deep forest jungle. 
 Another good thing about GW is the guilds. A good guild can help you along the way and is a must 
 for winning battles against other guilds. I did find GW lacking in the customization, such as the 
 armour, weapons, and items. There is just not enough depth when it comes to those things. This 
 is where GW loses its biggest points, and can't compete against other MMO's like World of Warcraft. 
 Once you have completed the campaign, there is really nothing else to do but complete the side 
 quests (many of which are boring) , or PvP.
  
  PvP
  One of the biggest things an MMO needa is a good PvP. And GW delivers on this part. You can battle 
 against another or with a team of up to 4. The battles are fierce, fast and really get you immersed. 
 You will bve spending many hours playing this part of the game (trust me) . Anoher aspect is the 
 guild wars (hence the title) . These are also like the the PvP, except gain you Guild prestige points 
 and are fought with up to 10 members.
  
  Bottom Line
  GuildWars is whole package of fun and surprises. It really appeals to the mass market with its 
 non existent monthly fees, pretty graphics, and its deep story and fast paced gameplay. I would 
 definitely recommend this game to anyone who likes MMO's or somebody new to the genre.
  
  Achilles01 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Butters782
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 28, 2006 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a free MMORPG where it focuses more on teamwork rather than power leveling. It is 
 impossible to beat this game without the help of your peers, and there are a lot of people to help 
 you. And if you dont feel like trying to get someone to help you, there are always Henchman, who 
 are NPCs who follow you around and they take some of the loot from the monsters that you kill. 
 
  
  There is a campaign that leads you through the whole world, as you try to save Ascalon's people 
 from their certain doom. The story is full of plot twists and surprises. Watching the cutscenes 
 and the story unfold was extremely fun and eventful.
  
  Game: The maximum level is 20, you have to either buy or earn skills. In some towns you will find 
 a skills person where you can buy your skills. Als, you can create a PVP character or use your 
 campaign character to fight against other people in PVP arena.
  
  Guilds: The game deals a lot with your guild. You create or join a guild, where you recruit new 
 people and help eachother out. Eventually, your guild would be able to buy a guild hall where they 
 can have special guild battles (that others can watch if they want to, but 15 minutes after it 
 happened to avoid cheating) . There are a lot of guilds to choose from and many have very helpful 
 people who will help eachother out.
  
  There are an endless amount of quests and with a new chapter coming every 6 months, you are guaranteed 
 to never get bored of it. Also, there are many classes that you can be so testing them all out 
 is always fun. I reccommend this for everyone who enjoys MMORPGs, and since you dont have to pay 
 monthly it should be in everyones budget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coose
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 28, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is, and this will forever be my opinion, one of the best MMORPG's to date. It has awesome 
 graphics, Great sounds, and an extremely long length. One of the best parts is..... It free! Yep! 
 No monthly fees. If you don't play much, or your sessions are spread out over time, this will be 
 perfect for you. One of my favorite features is the ability to form a guild (hence the name) , and 
 have lots of members. You can then make a team of four and go out to fight monsters only with them. 
 Overall, I love this game, and hope you do too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gangguard
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 28, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  The game is about a fictional place called Tyria, with technology of the middle ages. It fulfills 
 all the fantasy needs, swords, heavy armour, fireballs etc. THE GREATEST OF ALL FEATURES IS NO 
 MONTHLY FEES!
  
  The gameplay is very fast paced and action-packed, every second counts and teamwork is essential, 
 it may seem quite hard to excel in the game, but learning is a piece of cake. 
  
  The graphics are amazing for a game of this time, although not top of the line, the graphics are 
 enough to make you drool over. The sound effects are very delicate and the music is wonderful. 
 I mean, by Jeremy Soule winner of awards, how bad can it be.
  
  Last but not least, in a online game, the community is important, Gaile Grey the public relations 
 person always visit fan site forums and discuss the game, and many reported chatting to her in 
 game, and there are always improvements and updates which makes Guild Wars a better game.
  
  I recommend this to nearly everyone, and since Factions is out soon, you better get that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uglymugluk
Rating: 3.5
Date: Apr 28, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  I can't see how games like this beat the likes of final fantay XI on scores. There is no depth 
 to the game all it is, is fight, fight some more and then fight some more. THATS ALL THERE IS TO 
 THE GAME. The graphics arnt to bad but not to great either. The sound is one thing that a like 
 about it. It fits with the mood but a good soundtrack should not let you steer into the direction 
 of buying this. I do know that not a lot of people will agree with me but if you want a decent 
 MMORPG go buy final fantasy XI, A bit of cost a month is worth it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torondir
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 26, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Ok, to start out, the real plus side for the consumer on this game is that there is no subscription 
 fee, just the initial cost to buy the game. The down side to no subscription is that there are 
 less frequent expansions than with other MMORPGs (Massive Multiplayer Online Role Playing Game) ; 
 however, if you are looking to spend a fair amount of time playing this online, it definitely is 
 worth it.
  
  Also to get some technical issues out of the way, the maximum player level is capped at 20; yet, 
 this does not seem to be an issue as it develops a seeming equality of capabilities. If you have 
 already been playing the game for a while, then you should easily be able to get a new character 
 up to that level in a solid day or two. The progress to level 20 is mainly just storyline and a 
 learning curve such that most of the ins and outs of the game are gradually acquired instead of 
 having them dumped on you all at once. Also during that time, you can take enjoyment in the process 
 of advancing your character and obtaining new things. After you reach the cap level (or "Ascend") , 
 then the game becomes much more open and intriguing in being able to go back and do things left 
 alone on your first pass, as well as new areas are then opened up for exploration.
  
  Storyline:
  As with most epic adventures, you are one of the chosen heroes on his/her quest to 
 find yourself and save the world (the region of which is called "Tyria") . You start out as a common 
 grunt, looking to advance your status and your kingdom, Ascalon. As the threat of the Charr comes 
 to critical turning point, you are employed by Ascalon's Prince Rurik to take back the kingdom. 
 Little do you know that this small goal will lead you and your fellow chosen on a journey all across 
 Tyria in attempt to rescue the world from the clutches of an evil undead tyrant. For most this 
 will involve quite a few unexpected turns along the way.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is fairly simple, and the game takes time to show how to use its different aspects 
 (some other aspects are only learned from other teammates) . There are 2 main stages to the game 
 called "Pre-Searing" and "Post-Searing," referring to events in the game storyline. Pre-Searing 
 is the initial area where you will learn the basics of the PvE (Player versus Environment as opposed 
 to PvP - Player versus Player) , and it is more directed to single-play than cooperative play to 
 get you used to the game before entering teams. After mastering the basics, you can leave and move 
 on Post-Searing where the game opens up to more encouraged cooperative play - also you are free 
 to move right into Post-Searing without going through the training course if you so desire.
  
  The play is in real time, but you will be concentrating more on strategies of skill use and 
 team cooperation than on manipulating your character's position. Also character levels do not have 
 as much impact as does knowing what to do and how to do it. If you do not feel like joining up 
 with other real players to complete tasks, Ally NPCs called "Henchmen" are always available to 
 fill in your group. The AI is fairly decent but does have its moments.
  
  There are many different chat channels allowing you to talk to other party members, all persons 
 in your current region, guild members, the good'Ol private messenger and the trade channel, as 
 well as a friends list to keep track of certain player's names and online status. Another good 
 feature is the use of Map-Travel such that once you have visited a town or outpost, you may instantly 
 travel there using the world map instead of having to walk everywhere all the time.
  
  Most of the skills for a particular character class can be earned by completing quests, and those 
 that cannot or if you just don't feel like the quests, you may also purchase those skills from 
 a trainer for a price. There are six classes, Warrior, Mesmer, Elementalist, Monk, Ranger, and 
 Necromancer of which each character has a Primary and Secondary Class at any one time. The primary 
 class is chosen at character creation and cannot be changed for the duration of that character. 
 The secondary may be changed later on in the game progression, but you only get a stats boost pertaining 
 to your primary class. You may have up to 4 characters at any one time on the original account. 
 If you purchase the expansion pack Guild Wars Factions and append it to your existing core account 
 (as opposed to creating a new account as both the original and expansion are stand-alone games) , 
 you are given an additional 2 slots, and recently ANet has announced that they intend to extend 
 even more additional character slots for a price of $9.99 per additional slot.
  
  Some issues include that all emotes are text-command based instead of choosing from a menu and 
 while running, you may get snagged on a few rare invisible corners, but otherwise the gameplay 
 is fairly simple.
  
  Learning Curve:
  For beginners, it takes about 2 hours to learn the basics, but to know all the ins and outs may 
 take several weeks of game-play (little pieces at a time) and picking up tips and tricks from other 
 players.
  
  Originality:
  Guild Wars pulls from many other genres, and for the most part, is very similar to other games 
 of its class; however, the way it implements its cooperative team play and missions/quests is somewhat 
 original and not as commonly seen. The old style since MUDs (multi-User Dungeons) has often been 
 an open, all-inclusive world where players in the same area out in the wilderness collide. So if 
 someone had just completed a quest or killed of certain monsters, you would have to wait for them 
 to respawn before you could have your turn. Guild Wars, on the other hand, instantiates separate 
 wilderness and mission regions for each and every party so you could be killing the same monster 
 as many other parties at the same time, but you would never come in contact with those other parties 
 or the aftermath left by them. The only places where you get to meet other people are within towns 
 and outposts, this is also where you form your party of other players to go out on a quest/mission/exploration. 
 As afore mentioned, there are always chat channels to communicate with other players even when 
 they are not a part of your current party.
  
  Openness:
  Each mission is fairly closed and objective-path oriented. The real openness of the game comes 
 into play where you can explore many areas of Tyria that even have no relevance to your tasks. 
 With the right amount of money and another skilled (usually higher-level) person, you can skip 
 most of the game; however, by doing so you will be missing a lot of the story and experience, but 
 you also have the ability to always go back and play the parts you skipped as you so desire. The 
 game is meant to be played in order of the story, but you may choose what parts to play or skip. 
 When I say skip, this doesn't meant you just hit a skip button and are there. You would still have 
 to traverse the wilderness to get where you are going if you don't follow the mission-based storyline.
 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are not phenomenal, but they are more than adequate. It is nowhere near Oblivion or 
 graphics of that class; however, Guild Wars provides a fairly decent display, and if you get into 
 the game enough, the graphics won't really matter. An interesting feature is the point of view 
 feature; you can zoom in and out at different levels of 3rd-person view with the camera centered 
 on your character or you can zoom all the way in for a first-person perspective. Some cons you 
 may notice is that during cutscenes (which are rendered in real-time) , the characters' mouths do 
 not move when they speak.
  
  Sounds and Music:
  Guild Wars comes with a great ensemble of music, and has specific scores that pertain to the region 
 in which you are currently present adding to the feel and emotion of the game. In addition to the 
 in-game music, Direct Song hosts free downloads of the music score highlights (with a limited number 
 of downloads on the free account with Direct Song) so you can enjoy the music outside of the game.
 
  
  The sounds are also a good aspect with certain sounds pertaining to skills of specific types being 
 cast or interrupted, sounds that vary between monsters, and footstep sounds that differ depending 
 on the surface being walked on, be it snow, dirt, grass rock, etc.
  
  Special Events:
  The Guild Wars Team designs special in-game "Holliday" items, events, quests, and monsters limited 
 to a period of time surrounding world-wide holidays. For example, the major cities were re-decorated 
 during the Wintersday celebration, with candy cane collectable weapons, ginger-bread shields, and 
 snowball PvP, concluding with a grand-finale fireworks celebration and wrapped gifts that you could 
 give to that special someone. Halloween had a similar celebration with a spooky atmosphere. Regional 
 holidays are not celebrated so events like Thanksgiving or Cinco de Mayo would not effect the game.
 
  
  Team play and Guilds:
  Team play is essential to the Guild Wars experience, and the game is designed to make this element 
 necessary to succeed in tasks given. As with any game, there are always a few bad apples that try 
 to ruin it for everyone else, but most of the time you will form some good teammates. The fun also 
 comes into play in cooperating with your teammates to figure out how to complete your tasks or 
 just play around. And if you find a group of people whom you particularly click with, you may start 
 or join a guild which groups you all together and has its own chat channel, cape designs, and guild 
 hall meeting place. The guild is a great way to expand your knowledge and experience of the game, 
 get help from other players, organize group parties for PvE or PvP, or just have a larger base 
 of other players to hang around with. With the expansion, ANet intends to take this a step further 
 and have larger groups that encompass multiple guilds called factions, again with its own chat 
 channel and such.
  
  Player versus Player:
  Playing through the game several times and completing all the quests can begin to get rather boring, 
 doing the same things over again. This is where the PvP aspect of Guild Wars really shines. As 
 each of the 6 character classes are fairly well designed to be balanced and have trade-offs or 
 advantages/disadvantages over the other classes, the way to compete with each other is constantly 
 changing. A group may devise a really good 'build' and defeat their opponents, but the game is 
 designed so some other group can design a different build that would just render the previous 'build' 
 helpless. With real people devising these new strategies and builds, the face of the player versus 
 player field is ever changing. And with the beautifully balanced classes, this cycle is like an 
 evolving game of rock, paper, scissors (or Ja-Ken-Pa depending on the origin) where each hand is 
 both superior to one and inferior to the other, except it's not just rock, paper, and scissors 
 but a multitude of builds.
  
  In the PvP arena there are several ways to group and fight: Random Arenas (where you are assigned 
 to a group of 4 other random players and face off against an opposing team) , Team Arenas (same 
 as the Random Arenas except you choose your team before entering) , GvG or Guild versus Guild (team 
 of 8 from each guild compete to victory) , and the so called pinnacle HoH or Hall of Heroes where 
 a team of 8 faces off against other teams from all the different regions and countries in a series 
 of successive finalizing rounds in order to take and hold a place called the Hall of Heroes (kind 
 of like the Gran Prix Mode) .
  
  As you win successive battles through strategy and teamwork, you will be rewarded Fame and Balthazar 
 (named after the deity of war in Tyria) points. You may redeem the Balthazar points to unlock new 
 skills or weapon upgrades to use in building new PvP characters or you may also unlock those PvP 
 items through PvE play. As you gain more fame, your rank will increase, and at certain levels of 
 rank, you will be awarded special emotes to show your time and success spent in the arena.
  
  Technical Support:
  As far as online technical support goes, PlayNC offers top notch assistance 
 and usually responds to any questions in under 24 hours. They are also constantly updating the 
 game to improve it or add new areas.
  
  Conclusion:
  All in all, it is a great game to spend a lot of time on, have fun, and experience cooperative 
 play. If you have never played an MMORPG before and are thinking of trying one out, this would 
 be a great place to start, and you cant go wrong with a current retail price of $39.99. Granted 
 this game doesnt offer all of the features of games like World of Warcraft and Everquest 2, but 
 considering that there is no subscription fee and the content that you do get (quite comparable 
 to WoW or EQ) , Guild Wars is worth a look-see.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jg2692
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 26, 2006 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a good rpg game that takes a long time to play. You have to play for like 3 hours 
 at a time because otherwise you wont get anywhere. There is a lot of variety in the setting and 
 characters and it takes a while to level up but if you like strategy games then this is the game 
 for you. It is difficult though and takes a while to get used to all the different controls and 
 things you can do but once you are at level 20 and have a good guild then it starts getting fun 
 because of all the battles you can play and win. You level up by completing quests and defeating 
 enemies and the higher level you are, the easier it is to win battles. But if you are at level 
 20 and theres no one to battle, then it gets pretty boring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ale_jrb
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 26, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  How to sum up Guild Wars in a few, fair words? This is a difficult thing to do, possibly because 
 the game is so different. What this means is that the game is brilliant for one person, and hell 
 to play for another.
  
  The game functions as an ORPG, an online role playing game, and the maker, ArenaNet, tacked Combat 
 onto the front to give CORPG - a title which fits nicely. Anyone who loves MMORPGs will be disappointed 
 - this game is most certainly not one of them. However, the way its put together, with almost every 
 little detail covered, makes for an easy transition for most players.
  
  There are two main parts to Guild Wars - PvE and PvP. The PvE on Guild Wars was a let down to some, 
 but in my opinion it's great. Although there is not much re-playability for the main missions, 
 there's nearly always 'one more skill' or 'something I've always wanted to kill'. The storyline 
 is quite simple, but highly addictive. Once I'd started, I felt attached and didn't want to stop. 
 Having said that, some of the missions seemed pointless whilst others didn't have enough placed 
 on them.
  
  The PvP, as far as I know, hasn't disappointed anyone. It truly is a masterpiece with action never 
 far away. Multiple arenas, both against other players in random teams, fixed teams or guilds and 
 playing against human-like AI makes this something that can't be missed. There are several levels 
 to the PvP - advance from random arenas where you can't choose your team to the mighty hall or 
 heroes where you can fight for world fame.
  
  All in all, this game is brilliant. With Factions due to emerge soon, promising to add even more 
 features, everything about this game is worth getting. Highly recommended.
  
  ~Ale_Jrb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -DarkFusion-
Rating: 2.1
Date: Apr 26, 2006 11:08 am PT
Review:  When I first heard about guild wars i thought its too good to be true, no fees mmorpg, good graphics 
 and from what I have heard a VERY good gameplay.
  
  From the 60-80 hours I have played I can with out a doubt say that this is the most boring rpg 
 game I have ever played.
  When I first got the game i could'nt stop playing it, yet, after almost 1 week the game got boring 
 and not just boring, VERY boring!
  The fighting got repetitive and sometimes a battle could go on for almost 10 minutes.
  In addition, 
 there were few "non-rpg" elements, for exemple: at any part of the game you can decide you no longer 
 wish to use bow so you decide to convert the skill points you have in bow skills to a diffrent 
 skill.
  I don't know about you but it does'nt make much sense, in rpg games your character develops and 
 gain power slowly, the fact you can convert skill in mere seconds does'nt have any "rpg sense.
 
  Another "non-rpg" element I found in the game was the fact that character status does'nt exist, 
 there is no strength or agility, this status is what determins the value of your character.
  If it was'nt for the level up system of the game guild wars would'nt even be an rpg game.
  Besides 
 really cool and beauitful graphics this game falls short in every aspect.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FinalSorrow
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 25, 2006 2:24 pm PT
Review:  Guildwars, Is a massive online RPG and it's a game that can make you spend hours at a time without 
 knowing it. It has so much to do, and so much to explore. The character selection is very good, 
 and the character details are awesome. The armours that can be purchased throughout the game add 
 to the fun factor, although some armours are more expensive then others. This game is the best 
 RPG in the computer IMO, and it should not be missed. Factions is coming out by the end of April, 
 and It will be even better then Guildwars you can also use your characters from Guildwars in Factions 
 which in my opinion is just awesome and makes me want to buy factions thus more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raiden-grave
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 25, 2006 11:35 am PT
Review:  Well first off guild wars is an Online MMORPG of sorts, the only difference to most other mmorpgs 
 today is that Guild Wars uses instances.
  Instances is where each player and his party have their own individual copy of the whole guild 
 wars world once leaving towns/missions/group areas. Of course instances wont appeal to everyone 
 but for most people this is a great idea. 
  Some of the benefits of instances are: 
  No waiting for quests to become available, no kill stealing. And many other benefits. 
  But even 
 though the game is instanced you will still meet alot of real players like yourself and party and 
 even make/join guilds, the guild wars community is huge and for the most part friendly.
  
  The environment within guild wars is beautiful, infact most of the graphics in the game are flawless 
 and truly beautiful. Just travelling the different regions you will find their are many different 
 types of environements with amazingly detailed landscape etc.
  
  The actual gameplay is also very good, there are thousands of quests for you to do within the game, 
 as well as many cooperative missions, some you will find impossible without a real player party 
 (no henchmen) and others you may find you can even do alone, these missions also provide the main 
 storyline for the guild wars game.
  
  Henchmen are an type of NPC that you can hire to fight alongside you within quests of adventuring, 
 you can use these to party up with if their are no real players to party with or you just feel 
 like playing alone.
  
  Guild Wars also has plenty of skills to find and you can also have 2 character classes for each 
 character.
  
  Overall This game is well worth the purchase, at 17.99 a shot what have you got to loose! And 
 with Factions comming out in a few days :) 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morrowind
Rating: 5
Date: May 14, 2006 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps Ive been tainted by years and years of MMORPG experience. Perhaps I just dont "get" Guild 
 Wars. Or, perhaps Guild Wars just isnt what its cracked up to be. From the get go, I found this 
 game to be boring, and extremely dated. The combat is essentially point and click, the worlds are 
 instanced and feel lonely, and I just found myself so bored that I was reaching for the uninstall 
 button. On the plus side, it plays fast, the graphics look great, and its free to play (after initial 
 purchase) . Even the end game PVP is not as good as DAoC (was) or WoW (is) . 
  
  IF you have friends that play this game, the end game PVP can be fun, and I noted that a LOT of 
 the players in Guild Wars seem to be quite good, something that is missing in other current mmo's 
 (WoW for example) . If you dont know anyone that plays this game, I think you may find it to be 
 as boring as I did. If you have a group of friends though that want to PVP, you may find this right 
 up your alley. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StSk8ter29
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 24, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Pros- Innovative skill system, beautiful environments, excellent soundtrack, simply amazing game 
 engine. 
  
  Cons- Early environments can seem like mazes, music gets repetitive, lasting value depends on the 
 user. 
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay in guild wars is unique in the sense that it only allows for eight skills 
 to be equipped at a time. This usually includes some type of healing spell and a resurrection spell 
 along with six other unique combat spells. The game starts you out in a place known as "Ascalon" 
 in what is known as the "pre-searing" to veterans of the game. This is essentially the tutorial 
 and provides plenty of varied quests to get newcomers associated with the game. Although great 
 for a newcomer, the pre-searing will become boring for users that like to create more than one 
 character in the game as it is repetitive and for the most part unlike the gameplay for the rest 
 of the story. However, once out of the pre-searing and into the actual meat of the game, the game 
 begins to pick up. The game gives you the option to gain experience and travel points quite quickly 
 using instanced missions, but also is open to allowing the user to find items and gain experience 
 by killing monsters. Although not advisable, it is entirely possible to venture at least half way 
 through the game without participating in a single mission. But, most users will probably opt for 
 the missions as they are involved and allow for the meeting of new people and/or general strategy 
 in order to be used in the well-developed pvp portion of the game. Pvp in Guild Wars is a lot like 
 a card game, you choose your best cards to bring out your most effective strategy with your certain 
 character class. The end result of the entire PvE portion of the game seems to be going into some 
 type of this competitive play. That's not to say that the PvE portion of the game deserves any 
 less respect, but their doesnt seem to be much in the PvE portion of the game for a character that 
 has already completed the story. I can say for sure that after over 300+ hours and six months of 
 PvE adventuring with one character, it became rather boring and repetitive. This combined with 
 the chance that PvP might not appeal to the user, and we discover a problem that should be fixed 
 in future expansions to the game.
  
  Graphics- This is the most amazing graphics engine I think that I have ever witnessed. The game 
 plays on many low-end systems and still manages to look great. There have only been a few minor 
 issues for me with the graphics. When playing with older Radeon cards the game will render certain 
 trees and rock formations as a solid color. The game will also tend to slow down when venturing 
 into some of the blizzard conditions that seem to partake in the mountainous regions. Overall, 
 however, most users should be perfectly fine with the graphics and find them beautiful throughout 
 the game.
  
  Sound- The sound score for this game was very well developed. The music for the game was developed 
 by artist Jeremy Soule and includes plenty of tunes that set the right tone for battles, towns, 
 and just running around aimlessly. Many users will find the music to be pleasant to listen to, 
 however, users that want to play for a long period of time may want to turn the music off as it 
 becomes repetitive. 
  
  Value- Like mentioned above, the PvE portion of the game will last most users for quite a long 
 time. But, if only using one character, the game can suddenly put you at a dead end after so many 
 hours; offering hardly any content not already explored and little to do. The PvP is a great followup 
 to the PvE content, and it is allowed directly at the beginning of the game, but even PvP can become 
 boring and lose its appeal. After playing over 500+ hours with my characters, one hundred of those 
 probably doing nothing at all, I am ready to buy the expansion/stand alone game Guild Wars: Factions. 
 Assuming that their are users out there who would play less often than myself, Guild Wars is still 
 an innovative game, offers plenty of content, is long lasting, and is well worth the money. It 
 seems that the developers, Arena Net, will have a giant on their hands as more expansions come 
 out and the game becomes more popular. But as of now, the sheer amount of content and lasting gameplay 
 on top of the promise of future expansions makes the purchase of the original Guild Wars all more 
 worth the money. Oh yeah, and did I mention no monthly fees? : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyee119274
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 24, 2006 6:02 pm PT
Review:  soo... WOW is kinda better than this, but like $15 a month is a bit much... guild wars is more 
 than worth it... its everything that wow is but you can only be human race.... i trully liked being 
 an orc but the large town was laggy so that was crap.... then i was a tauren and i love those guys... 
 but i stopped playing and im paying like $15 for nothing.... i dunno.... its same thing a as WOW 
 but just cheaper! woohooo!!!!!!!1 GO TAURENS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  soo.... i would get this game rather than WOW. if WOW was no monthly payment... oh man... i wouldnt 
 be playing this tonight.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Astyu
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2006 5:11 am PT
Review:  A great game. Graphics, gameplay, sound,... is all amazing. A game that is a God, a King and everinthing 
 good and powerfull. Buy this game. 
  
  sorry my english i'm portuguese 
  
  P. S.- I'm Astyu R, Linda Tuga, Robinson Tuga or Astyu The Tuga in the game if u know me talk to 
 me (in the game)
  
  
  
  
  
  e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e e
  z z z z z 
 z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z z
 
  xD :-) ;-]
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: soppderock
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 22, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Pro: No Montly Fee
  
  Con: Little varsity, broken story, and plain design.
  
  Guild wars is really an amazing game which appeal to many players. However, after many long hours 
 merged into guild wars, I started to understand the reason why I spent so many hours with this 
 game: To earn myself some sort of "rank" and getting "unique" items.
  
  Playing was fun, but the PvE part of the game was probably the most tedious and broken part of 
 Guild wars. All you do at the beginning is running around and fnishing useless quests, and the 
 main meat,- the missions, are a total let down. Why, you ask? The story, about the most important 
 issue of a game is totally broken; the whole plot makes no real sense and is horrendously bad to 
 an instant that makes me feel ill by just trying to remember fractions of it. About the worst of 
 all of Guild wars is the game design, the whole setting and atmosphere. I often ask myself, "Why 
 do people say guild wars has a lush environment?" My opinion is obviously; Go and eat a banana. 
 Because all you get to see is mountain, mountain, mountain, and more mountain. Despite some few 
 plants, crystals and other senseless stuff here and there once in a while.
  
  Besides mountains and even more gray , black, blue, white, red mountains, the monster designs: 
 Are Kiddish and remember me about my grandmother. But the personal character designs themselves 
 are just pure eye-candy,- too bad the they are not for real.
  
  All I have been talking about was making Guild Wars looking bad, but what about the good stuff 
 that made me play this hours after hours? If not because of the "splendid" story, then of course; 
 Because of the gameplay! The gameplay can be described by three words; "Hit The Button" And that 
 is exactly about anything you do the whole time. You choose a target, hit a command button then 
 watch your heroe/oin smack and slach your target to death, or if not he/she/it slaps you first. 
 The most interesting thing you can do with Guild Wars is to coop with other players, and due fact 
 that GW is a MMORPG makes it just fit to make it **** Unless you coop with friends, and which is 
 about what i would suggest you should do. 
  
  The only reason to start PvEing is mainly because it is the fastest way to earn good stuff and 
 unlock your current proffesions skills. And what makes things more interesting is that that you 
 can only put on eight different skills at a set time, this makes battles more interesting, but 
 due to the limited four core professions does it an unfortunate limited varied experience. While 
 we are talking about PvEing and earning stuff; All the quests you opptionally choose to either 
 do or not are very little rewarding, unless you do it for the sake of unlocking some new skills 
 to experiment with. And while we would like to keep talking a litle more about varity; You will 
 have to find another word to make a deffinition for what to call things "Scarce" it is quite funny 
 actually. I had to discover to my own surprise that each core proffesions had a total of about 
 4 common sets of armour, each with very limited alter playing ground which increased the lieklyhood 
 for you to pump into your "twin". There are other sets of armour besides these four common sets, 
 totally four more, I think, but the chances you get or see someone else using them is nigh to zero 
 procento, simply because they are way too expensive and the dmenad and urge to change your playiing 
 style is a must, both for Pveing and PvPing and which often results in changing some armour parts.
 
  
  Enough about gameplay and "command mashing." You would surely have noticed my opinion about the 
 musical score of Guild Wars, am I right? Please do not even ask me about it. All I can say or ask 
 for sure is, "Is there any music at all, besides some poor sound effects?" There are definitely 
 is music trakcs, if they did not hide them or something, and they all did not do a well enough 
 job to make themselves worthy of my full attention. So I often just turn off all the annoying "ugg," 
 "ahh," and "Grrraarrr" and tune on some hard rock to make my stay as pleasant as possible.
  
  To the end of my Review
  I guess and hope this review has somehow helped you in understanding 
 what Guild wars really is all about. It is definitely a good game, if you got friends and like 
 to play online without fees as well! And in the end; all you have done in PvE was preparing for 
 PvP, which is about the most exciting part of the game, if you do not already have gotten tired 
 of the repetitious and uninspired gameplay, where spells don not have the flash and splash and 
 blood is not red, but green and black.
  This is my first Online game, and I would recomend it to anyone who does not want to pay a monthly 
 fee to play. However, but since Faction, the next chapter, is releasing in a couple ofdays; I stronly 
 recomend you to not buy the first one, and wait to see what it gets from the Gamespot Crew. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chauronald
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 6, 2006 11:56 pm PT
Review:  it a good game but get boring, because it take too much of my time to level up, earn gold, and 
 explore different places and also there isn't much anything interesting thing to do, u just do 
 the same thing over and over again, in different areas. the campaign is not worth completing because 
 the story is just boring, but it good to play it occasionally. when exploring the areas the monster 
 just gang up on u when u explore the map by your self and that just annoying and there is too experience 
 required to level and thats also annoying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hon1234
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  If you like MMO roleplaying then you should buy its around $40.00 to $50.00 but its worth it trust 
 me you will have fun playing hours and hours on this game but if you dont like just goping around 
 and killing things then play the campaign its fun to but if you like solo play the you might not 
 like this game i think its cool try it my friends and i have beatn the game it eventuly gets harder 
 and harder but it fun its a liveing world cida like Lineage 2 TIP: if your a ranger then you can 
 get a pet only a ranger. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucasgarsha
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 20, 2006 12:51 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing Guild Wars for a while now, but I don't play frequently. Why? Well, I find the 
 combact control to be a bit lacking, all my pals who are into these types of games are playing 
 WOW, and the lore doesn't grab me in the way Oblivion has of late.
  
  Nonetheless, I find myself comparing every game I play to this title.
  
  Guild Wars is far 
 and away the most stable and marvelous game implementation I have ever played. It works on low 
 end systems, and still looks absolutely stunning. It updates in moments, and the load times are 
 a dream. The environments are fantastic, and the models are the best I've seen in any game to date. 
 It is obvious that the Guild Wars development team is high among the industry's finest.
  
  In game, there can be 100 other people in the same town as I, yet I have never had any notice of 
 any lag, stuttering, or anything that detracts from the game's experience. I periodically return 
 to Guild Wars to find new content and to have myself a nice little PVP battle. It's good fun, but 
 it never sucks me in and compels me to play until 4am.
  
  Outstanding
  
  - Graphics are brilliant and well-styled
  - Great multiplayer; innovative (when you can find 
 a team of like-minded players or during PVP)
  - Unmatched value with a wealth of well-designed content
  
  Mediocre
  
  - Spell/Skill system 
 is balanced, but feels a bit flat as a result
  - Combact is less a visceral thrill compared to other titles, since the techniques require a timed 
 progression and don't generally give you that arsekickin' feeling
  - World map feels linear. Moreso since I've been playing Oblivion.
  
  Poor
  
  - Where are 
 all my buddies? Off playing WOW.
  - I like to see more items/weapons/wares in my RPGs. Guild Wars emphasis is placed on skills more 
 than loot, which is fine, but I likes to find loot, arr matey.
  
  One more thing...
  
  I've seen many comparisons to Diablo II, and even see that Gamespot lists Diablo II as a "similar 
 game". Having played Diablo II for several million hours, I can say this is pure bullocks - don't 
 listen to that comparison. Diablo II is like injecting crack into your eyeballs and devilishly 
 grinning as you click your way through the evil hordes and hear their grunts of pain beneath your 
 unmatched click-fu. Guild Wars is more like a jog through the park, tap dancing over the keyboard 
 in perfect time to unload your spells on your foes in Gatlin gun fashion while you watch a pretty 
 light show. Not at all the same thing.
  
  All Diablo II addicts are recommended to try Oblivion before Guild Wars, though Oblivion is single 
 player only and requires a super computer to play at full settings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Elegost
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  Like the title says the best thing bout the game is the faqt that its free to play unline others 
 like swg and wow
  
  gameplay is very much like in every rpg u train to grow stronger on ur path to ascension u gain 
 stronger skills wich u can use for both pve and pvp (player vs player) 
  
  graphics are very nice there are allot of bugs in the game but arenanet works rly hard to make 
 it better the game also runs better then other mmo's like wow the story is a bit bad but thats 
 not the main point of the game
  
  music is very great ever area has a fitting type of song tough most songs repeat em selves allot 
 in the game the game will keep u bussy for months if u like it its worth its money
  
  Good points: its free, nice pvp part like guildbattles, allot of skills, ur own person customized charr
 
  
  bad points: allot of bugs, no real challenging things in the game,... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JujuMagic
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 20, 2006 12:10 am PT
Review:  guild wars is a great MMORPG. fast paced (some peole call it short but it is so fun to take your 
 time and even start another character) , cheap (no monthly fee like WoW, just buy and play) , and 
 with the ability to combine professions allows so many different combinations that even thought 
 that game isn't as long as wow it stays funner longer. wow turns into a horrible grind fest from 
 levels 20-45. you can get all the way to level 10 in about 1 long day of hard play. level 20 takes 
 maybe another few long days. the expansion pack should make it much more interesting with the 2 
 new profs. and i believe the level cap is raised to 30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Vyse_
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 18, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  If you want a game that u won't get bored of till a long time, get this. The music is beautiful 
 and it has man fun features. Sick of Runescape, MapleStory, or RoseOnline? maybe the payments or 
 just the gameplay? if so, this game is perfect. It's pretty easy to understand or learn and it's 
 simple and just right for any player. I believe this game had some humor in it with the dances 
 and such, so if ure a comedian but couldnt show it in any other mmo, theres many things u can try 
 here. Well, this game is my fave gameplay-wise and if ure going to buy it or already have, i hope 
 u enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Perry_J
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 18, 2006 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars starts you out firstly by creating your character that you will play the whole campaign 
 with most importantly is selecting which profession you want a selection of Warrior, Ranger, Elementalist, 
 mesmer, monk or necromancer this also determins your look and what armour you can have during the 
 game.
  
  As you start playing guild wars you will notice how great the graphics look when you enter the 
 game 1st time with alot of attention to detail to the characters expecially along with stunning 
 landscapes as you explore around the world.
  
  Guildwars is almost entirely instanced; everything apart from the cities and outposts is instanced. 
 Instancing is of course nothing new but here it means that almost all of the times you play you 
 have your own map. Its easy to see the advantages of this, you dont have to worry about camping, 
 training, loot-stealing or griefing but you can form a party in the city and explore with freinds.
 
  
  Plus there are like over a dozen skills and items all in the game and are added too from time to 
 time plus another great thing is that you aint got to worry about a online fee as theres no charges 
 watsoever to this online game.
  Also theres PVP action in the game which addes more life and gameplay to the game either guild 
 v guild tourtaments, team based stratergy as you will find out fast you will need to use an array 
 of different skills to get an uper hand on the opposing team.
  
  Guild Wars offers a fine balance between PvP and PvE gameplay, allowing all sorts of players to 
 fully enjoy the game. Weather you're looking for a vast world just waiting for you to make the 
 first step in exploring it, or the chance to try your guile against other players, you wont be 
 disappointed.
  So this is an Online RPG for virtually anyone. The array of character builds and focus on warring 
 guilds makes it a dream for those who enjoy online rucks. The more off-line adventurer has a huge 
 world and extensive plot to fight their way through. The more traditional MMO player can bounce 
 between either pole, perhaps grumbling that there's not as much continuous content as they're used 
 to, but sated by not having to pay any kind of subscription just to be there. And the single-payment 
 model encourages anyone to give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBadHunter
Rating: 4.1
Date: Apr 18, 2006 7:30 am PT
Review:  This may be a good bargain for an MMO but trust me its not nearly as good as WOW or FFX. Dont get 
 me wrong GW is fun for a good 20 hours. The only way you can get the full effect of this game is 
 to keep a huge party and always go do missions together, but even then I got very tired of the 
 game. Its not jut me though ask anyone who has played a game like WOW and they will always tell 
 you that your missing out. So dont go around thinking "cool this MMO is only $40" because if you 
 want a good MMO your going to have to pay a lot more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ken2ng
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 17, 2006 9:56 pm PT
Review:  This game was quite an experience for me. I have sunk over 1000 hours into this game and it keeps 
 me coming back for more...
  
  I guess this game breaks down into two aspects Player Vs Enviroment and Player Vs Player. 
  
 
  + Player Vs Enviroment +
  Honestly, I have mixed feelings. I would say this though, if you want to sink you time into a game 
 based on PvE, I would suggest getting WoW or another MMORPG. This game doesn't have as much depth 
 in the PvE as those games.
  
  When I first started playing, I loved the PvE. It seems so much grander than myself. I had entered 
 a different world and it was immersive. 
  
  But as I became more accustomed to the game and more "jaded." PvE quickly lost its luster. Mob's 
 AI seemed to similar and enviroments just seemed to become just templates and hollow. There is 
 no exploration (pretty enviroments, no incentive to explore them though) . 
  
  Mobs have different skills, but in the end you tackle them with the same strategy. Comparable to 
 a button masher, sure you can go for flashy combos but just mashing buttons gets you to the same 
 place so why bother?
  
  All in all, I would say this has enough PvE to wet your bib. 
  
  + Player vs. Player +
  Now this is the meat of the game. PvP comes in 4 flavors: Random Arenas, 
 Team Arenas, Hall of Heroes (tournament mode) and Guild Vs. Guild.
  
  Random Arenas is a simple 4v4 battle where you get assigned 3 random teammates. Its fun for some 
 quick PvP but just like PvE, it is something you quickly out grow. 
  
  Team Arenas is a 4v4 battle where you group up with other players of your choosing. Now here is 
 where things get fun. The strategy and adaptation that you go through to best other teams in these 
 arenas is just breath taking. I can play in these arenas for hours chatting it up with guild mates 
 about teams we are playing and teams we play.
  
  Hall of Heroes is 8v8 and it is kind of the Random Arena of the 8v8. Honestly I don't do this much 
 and I don't plan to either. Its just not as fun as a 8v8 Guild battle. 
  
  Guild Battles are the main attraction of PvP. The only problem I have with this form of battling 
 is the time it takes to organize a cohesive team of 8. But when the team is formed, this is unmitigated 
 fun. Controlling key points on a map, huge skirmishes, splitting up to attack on two fronts. The 
 possibilities are endless.
  
  + Community +
  A lot has to be said about the community. I would say that your experience with Guild Wars is heavily 
 reliant on which guild you choose to ally yourself with. Take your time and find a good one. 
 
  
  There are tons of websites and thousands of discussions of PvP strategies and builds. Its a bit 
 overwhelming if you are into this kinda thing.
  
  Other than that the majority of the GW community seems to be PvE based which can't be helped I 
 guess (human nature perhaps) so finding a good PvP based guild is a bit difficult.
  
  + Conclusions +
  If you are looking for PvE, I suggest you look elsewhere. To just pay 50 bucks 
 for a long PvE is possible, but it quickly grows stale, If you want to create a "godly character" 
 I would suggest picking up Oblivion or some single player RPG. 
  
  PvP this game is awesome. Allie yourself with a good guild and this will be the most fun you have 
 in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wizoforb
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2006 10:09 pm PT
Review:  One reason I tried this game was that their wasn't a monthly charge to play. This is the first 
 game to prove that it doesn't take a monthly charge to keep it running, and fixing bugs, and what 
 not. It makes you think "Where is the money going for other games that do charge?". Well SWG proved 
 to be a ridiculous MMO after their NGE. All that money spent for what? A revamp? I guess the majority 
 asked for it, but ME I didn't like it one bit. This game has everything like it should. I've played 
 it for about a week now, and already have it down wha I have to do, and what I must do to advance. 
 They have a unique way of collecting items to actually craft/pay for new armor. It's there.... you 
 just have to either kill/trade to get it. Prices on things are well within grasp. So far the player 
 base is nice. I'm sure there are the youngins, and tards to ruin your game time, but so far so 
 good. The graphics are great with better realism (which I prefer over cartoon) than some mmo's 
 I can think of. This game is based around grouping for missions for sure. I tried to solo, and 
 I couldn't. I don't mind I guess, but some things I would like to do on my own. Maybe when I get 
 higher in level. It doesn't bother me either that you attack by clicking once, and the animation 
 takes over. Just to sit there continuing to click would get boring. Gives you time to select another 
 skill to unload on your enemy. The storage on the player is small. Holding only 30 items. I'm still 
 playing as we speak. I'm yet to find more things to say good about this game. I'm just so glad 
 it's free! That makes a big impact on my decision to play a game. other than having to spend $40-50 
 on a game then continuing to spend $10-15 on it every month. Man... glad those days are over. Another 
 interesting fact is they continue to upgrade/patch the game knowing that they said they wouldn't... man 
 what is that? That's great!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whitefox1602
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 14, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  This is the first MMORPG (massivly multiplayer online role playing game) I have bought and I have 
 to say it is outstanding. The graphics are great if you run the recoended specs and the gameplay 
 is great. In fact I could go on for hours about how amazingly great this game is but I don't have 
 time for that so just take my word for it. I was fairly new the genre and wasn't to shure if I 
 should but it or not but my friend had it so I got it so we could play together. If you have ever 
 thought of getting an MMO get this one!!!! It has free onlike play unlike other online rpg's that 
 cost you $15 a month this one costs only what you pay for at the store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Samus_Arnen
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Ok this is the game dreams are made of. Lol.
  
  Lets start with the graphics and sound. The graphics are breathtaking. Its for more real then World 
 of Warcraft. When you are attacking somthing it looks so good. And the armor and weapons are so 
 detailed its perfect. The sound is lik u hav 1000000 people fighting, dancing, and running around 
 in your back yard.
  
  THE GAMEPLAY! Ok so the graphics and sound are relly good and that but the gameplay is the icing 
 on the cake. While your in towns there are tons of people roaming around, and you'll meet friends 
 and enemys. But out in the battles its just u, ur party, and ur enemys. Its alot better then WoW 
 for that reason cause your not waiting around for people to respawn or items to come back.
  
  BUY IT BUY IT BUY IT..... but if u dont hav it now wait a bit until Factions comes out. 2 new 
 classes and a new continent! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JabbasChef
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 3, 2006 6:32 pm PT
Review:  Guild wars finaly a free mmo well dont get too excited. First lets start with gameplay. When you 
 first make a character this is the custimization. first u pick a class then your looks then name 
 thats it. you can only be good. the game is pretty fun but there are some problems. the game is 
 one big instance for those who dont know what an instance is an instance is were u get you own 
 copy of the map and if you make a party they come with you. its not like wow. almost every quest 
 you need a party. it took me a month to beat it which is because the top lvl is 20. lets move on 
 to graphics. the graphics are pretty decent they have more of a realistic look then wow. sound 
 is the best part Jeremy soule has outdone himself once again. value. the game is free of monthly 
 fees exept for the 50$ for the game. but because of this there are no real servers thats why most 
 of the game is an instance. overall guild wars is for those who cant afford monthly fees but still 
 the game is fun and you will have a good time playing it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fiskmasen
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 1, 2006 6:51 am PT
Review:  It all started with me playing the beta of the game, around half a year pre-release. I loved it. 
 I pre-ordered the game, and the wait began. 1 month, 2 months, 3 months, 4 months, 5 months, 6 
 months. And finally, it was here.
  We were going to see a movie with the school, so I used the time downtown to buy the game. I never 
 really saw the movie since I were sitting and reading the lore of the game, and it's a lot to read.
 
  I got home, popped the disc into the computer, started the installation. Very little to install, 
 since most of the game was streamed to me as I started playing. I swore over my slow broadband, 
 but it really wasn't that bad. 5000 files took 3 minutes to download on 0.5 mbit. Applause to Arena. net 
 for this great tactic.
  
  The game takes place in a fantasy world called Tyria. Your character starts in a tutorial like 
 environment called Ascalon. Here you get to know the game, do some quests, and gain some skills 
 before the real game starts.
  You get shipped of to the academy when you think your ready, and as you're here, the Charrs, very 
 nasty creatures, blow up Ascalon City, thus making everyone pissed.
  The rest of the story is basically you and everyone else trying to destroy the charr, and at the 
 same time get the hell out of Ascalon.
  
  The game's got the RPG part, wich can entertain you for some time. But the real deal of this game 
 is the PvP.
  It's something special about it, that no other game create. World of Warcraft and all the other 
 MMORPGs out there, deliver a really funny RPG part, but lack the things that makes PvP fun. Guild 
 Wars got them.
  PvP in Guild Wars are divided into two parts. Regular PvP and Guild vs Guild (GvG) . The regular 
 PvP is then divided into several different parts. You can fight in random arenas, team arenas, 
 and the Hall of Heroes. The Hall of Heroes is where you get tested for real. As you get into HoH 
 you must first fight several fights, before you're really in HoH. When you do get into HoH, you 
 must fight for your region. America, Europe, and Korea all fight here. It's basically America vs. 
 Europe vs. Korea. When one of the regions do win, they get the power of the gods for their region, 
 unlocking special areas for other players in their region to play in. These areas contain special 
 quests and items.
  
  All in all this game's great, but the PvP is what makes it excellent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo431
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 1, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  I played this game since beta testing and i'm still in love with it. I've played other MMORPG games 
 before, but this one is the best one i've tried. This one takes skill. I played WoW before, but 
 that game got boring to me after a while, it was the same stuff over and over, and not very addicting 
 to me.
  
  The graphics in this game are pretty. The lush environments, they look great. The beach missions 
 are the best looking to me, you can see a long way and it just feels very immersive. 
  
  The combat is very good, it's a little repetitive but that's alright if it's good combat. Different 
 combinations of skills you're able to take into battle at one time will decide on whether or not 
 you survive, and how well you use those skills. The game also gets increasingly hard as you go 
 through, as do a lot of other games. But the idea of creating a necromancer and just wasting the 
 enemies away by draining their life or inflicting an insect swarm is just plain fun. Then after 
 they've died, you can use their corpse to create a fiend for you to fight with.
  
  Another thing that really makes this game different from other MMORPG's is that this game has a 
 storyline. You play through mission after mission following a story as you go along, and there 
 are twists in them as you go along. If you want to, you can do the "old grind" and just go out 
 into an unexplored area and kill, kill, kill, farm, farm, farm.
  
  This game requires you group for everything. If you don't have enough people to group with, or 
 you're missing a healer, you can grab an NPC to get the job done. Once you leave town, the game 
 loads you into an instanced mission or explorable area. This means you will see nobody out there 
 but your team. Every group leaves town in an instanced area. 
  
  The last thing I will mention is the PvP. It's fun, challenging, and you're able to PvP in your 
 guild. Player vs Player is more fun when you're in a group with your guild, fighting against other 
 guilds. If you compete for the favor of the gods, you might end up fighting other countries in 
 the tournament. I've played in it a little bit and i've gone up against the U. S., Europe, and Korea.
 
  
  Addicting game, and just a little repetitive, but the combat is quick and keeps you playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevinman4404
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 31, 2006 3:52 pm PT
Review:  READ BEFORE YOU REVIEW:
  
  There's a reason this has low user-ratings.
  
  Some said "WTH- this is NOT an mmorpg low mark"
  
  The company that made it is CONSTANTLY arguing 
 that it is in NO WAy an mmorpg, and that the only similarity is that there are a lot of online 
 players.
  
  Others said it shouldn't be classified as an rpg.
  
  Well, we are kind of running out of categorizing options on this site (and other sites) , aren't 
 we? It is not strictly an rpg, regardless of how its ctegorized here.
  
  REVIEW~~~
  
  Gameplay: 
  
  This game is possibly the funnest, if you're not expecting it to be something 
 that its not. Unlike Blizzard, etc. games, almost everyone who plays this game plays for a long, 
 long time. It is estimated that 92% of the palyers will get the expansion, contrary to under 60% 
 of most other games.
  
  The game is basically designed around being half rpg, half unclassifiable, whose objective is to 
 take away all the flaws of other games. It does this pretty well, but this is subjective. For example, 
 they thought that to solve high lvl players making it no fun for lower lvl players, they'd lower 
 the level cap to 20. I think they could have easily raised the lvl cap as high as 100, and lowered 
 the difference between each level, to achieve the desired result- and which would probably satisfy 
 everyone. This game has one of the highest playablity figures, and PvP, in msot cases, is dead 
 addictive. It is fun for anyone to play, even for most who dont like RPGish games.
  
  The the 820+ spells, immersive combat experience (especially in team or pvp) and nearly the most 
 detail for any game in terms of the combat system.
  
  Character creation is fun. The characters themselves beat any other character system. It brings 
 such detail, animosity and characterization to each character, which are fully configurable. While 
 Oblivion has a possibly better creation process, the characters in Guild Wars outstrip it by miles.
 
  
  On the less pleasant side, the environment is slightly limited (ie cant fall off cliffs) and not 
 everyone necessarily agrees with some of the flaw corrections.
  
  Lastly, one reason for its amazing gameplay is its origin and purpose. Created from ex-blizzard 
 staff, and designed to take away any gameplay flaw previously present on any game, it lives up 
 to this pretty well.
  
  Summary: It's the funnest, high playability, constant high # of players. Almost literally flawless. 
 This game beats Blizzard's any day.
  
  
  Technology:
  
  For a subtitle I chose 'revolutionary.' Such is the technology. The loading screens, although frequent, 
 are so short, and this is especially impressive considering the massive amount and high quality 
 this game has to load. Thus there is very little time spent loading anything. The servers are another 
 marvel, with no noticeable lag. The engine in this game, and physics, are top-notch, tough maybe 
 not the best. The company spends loads of money on updating the game and maintaing the flawless 
 servers. There are updates every few days, and once they even added a large, beautiful and fully 
 interactive region (complete with its own experiences, quests, spells, etc) as an update.
  
  
  Graphics:
  
  These graphics are 2nd best only to the upcoming Unreal Tournament 2007 
 (and that's not even out yet) . While not as realistic as UT2k7, they are beautiul froma n artistic 
 perspective. Everything gets a fantasy-ish glow on high quality models. The environment, although 
 again not the best (hipoly) models, turn out to be the most beautiful regardless, and you may find 
 yoyurself stopping to admire the scenery on more than one occasion. The character models beat all, 
 considering the characterization in each.
  
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound is on par with most good games. Oblivion shows it down here, but GW beats the Blizzard 
 game in sound and music.
  
  
  Value:
  
  Truly amazing is the fact that this game has no monthly cost, even though it is byfar the best.
 
  
  Lets look at the costs over 12 months:
  
  WoW (and expansions coming) :
  15 (12) + 60 (base) +50 (expansion) = $290 US
  
  GW (and expansions coming) :
  50 (base) + 50 
 (exp1) + 50 (exp2) + (any accounts for other characters) = $150+ US
  
  As you can see, it certainly beats other games of this type in costs, although it is far from great, 
 as they release expansions every 6 or less months. Luckily, you do not need to buy the expansions, 
 and even better, you can start from a later game and not buy the ones before it. Overall it has 
 a great (but not perfect) value.
  
  How I award it:
  
  Base game (prophecies)
  ~Best game of 2004~
  
  Expansion (factions)
  ~Best game yet~
  
  This game beats World 
 of Warcraft, although it is very close, and it annihalates Oblivion. And I am a player of all game 
 genres except for sports (but including racing) .
  
  Pros Summary:
  -Benchmark Graphics
  -Deflawed gameplay appealing to almost everyone
  -Great servers and best game technology
  -Great 
 updating and stellar expansion
  
  Cons summary:
  -Environmental limitations
  -Value doesn't live up to quality of game
  
  It seems I have been rambling on so...
  
  
 ~~~END OF REVIEW~~~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sacredBed
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 31, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  this game is definatly one of the greatest mmorpgs yet. although its hard to get into the game 
 once you do you will not want to stop. A good way to get into the game is finding a guild that 
 is nice and helpful. the graphics for the game are very good considering the low graphic card requirments. 
 the gameplay is nice with very easy controls. the sound is my favorite part. not only does the 
 monsters make sounds and swinging an axe make sound, but the music is great. if you are looking 
 for a fun mmorpg then get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhoenixMcDaniel
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 11, 2006 4:41 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars was original pegged as a Massively Multiplayer Online Roleplaying Game with no monthly 
 fees. According to everyone I knew that own it, it was basicaly World of Warcraft that you could 
 play for free. I was excited beyong imagination. When I finally got the game, my disappointments 
 were immeasurable.
  
  Don't get me wrong, Guild Wars is a marvelous game for what it is. What is it isn't World of Warcraft 
 with no monthly fees, however. Guild Wars can best be described as Diablo II that you have to play 
 online.
  
  The presentation is artistic beyond measure. With the graphics cranked to the highest level, you 
 could easily get lost in the beauty (whether subtle or definitive) . The landscapes are as varied 
 as imaginable. From the beautiful serenity of pre-searing Ascalon, to the snowy mountains of the 
 Shiverpeaks, to the barren wastelands of the Crystal Desert, the varied lands of Tyria will leave 
 you breathless.
  
  Everything about Guild Wars is done right. The sound design is on par with multi-million dollar 
 budget films. Wading through water actually scared me when they implemented the sound quality slider. 
 Everything about the game is perfectly what it should be. However, an MMORPG with no mothnly fees 
 is not what it's trying to be.
  
  The Player-vs.-Player (PvP) portion of the game is where Guild Wars truly shines through. I myself 
 just recently got into PvP, and I'll tell you, if you're not playing PvP, you're only playing half 
 the game. With a variety of modes and unlimited options, Guild Wars' PvP offers an experience unrivalled 
 by any MMORPG to date. And best of all, it's free! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gryphonsflight
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 31, 2006 5:26 am PT
Review:  This game in the span of six months gained one million players, and its not hard to see why. Arena 
 nets stragity of one time fee then nothing is the perfect plan for casual and hardcore gamers alike. 
 The pure length of the game is that of carefully planed out team oriented control. 
  The games world is dynamic, always getting new quests. An average of almost two a day. Keeping 
 things fresh and interesting as you make friends and search for those rare weapons and to complete 
 your skill list. THe graphics are just great and the choice of character builds among the six base 
 classes are endlessly obtainable making things always interesting in pvp fights.
  Sure some of the citys are overcrowed with newbies, *cough* lionsgate *cough* but you come to accept 
 that and ignor them very quickly. The guilds offer interesting pvp chances to test your metal and 
 an even more interesting chance to murder.
  But all in all, guildwars is a once in a lifetime franchise. Once factions comes out expect to 
 see me running around cantha with a few ninjas in tow.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Holb
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 30, 2006 4:50 am PT
Review:  There's no need for a long drawn out review for this game becuase of it's hype and staying true 
 to that hype alone. This game never gets old. I have 3 characters I have been working on and getting 
 them ready for the expansion to come out soon, which looks really good I mite add. 
  
  The gameplay, oh deal god the gameplay; where should I begin. I have played ALOT of mmorpgs and 
 I love PVPing. I have spent so much money on failed mmos looking for great gameplay and pvp balance 
 and I couldn't find one, until Guild Wars. The way they balance the skills and professions are 
 that of a godly level. The only think I can complain about is that when hecnhies get infront of 
 your mob you want to lock on to and then you try just the use TAB, and it locks onto like a mob 
 hardly even on your radar, it's easily bypassable and easy to get around but sometimes it can be 
 alittle gay. 
  
  The graphics are INSANLY great for looking at what the mini req are. The game age new age graphics 
 that even low budget PCs can enjoy and to alot of people thats a plus. I think this is 1 of the 
 FEW new games that got it right giving good gameplay AND graphics AND balance.
  
  Sound, is good. I mostly turn off the music part (even though the music isnt bad by all means) 
 and listen to some nightwish (GREAT BAND for mmo playing) and some new nonpoint . The spell casting 
 and hiting, etc, etc, etc, is really good and hardly never off key, like WoW is sometimes. (gg WoW 
 for my canceled account)
  
  Has for the value, it's high. This game has so much to offer its not even funny. Must games with 
 content like this the people make you play monthly and these guys are giving you it for no monthly 
 cost! This game is replayable so many times. I have made prolly around 70+ characters in my time 
 of having this game. It has so much to offer and when it gives you it, it does it on a silver plater. 
 
  
  The learning curve was easy for me because I played MMO's before. But for new people like my friend 
 and grilfriend, they had alittle harder time getting use to it, my GF still hasn't, LOL.
  
  No the go level my soon to be, 55 Monk. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: betitothegame
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Guild wars is really fun and easy to get into. There are so many different things to do. I personally 
 like the hooking up with other players and forming partys and doing quests together. It has a huge 
 lasting appeal because it will keep u busy for hours. So many different types of weapons, armor, 
 magic attacks. I very much prefer using my Me/Mo and my E/Mo... i like my Me/Mo because i could 
 deal a lot of damgage and heal myself because mesmers and monks have really bad armor... and i like 
 my emo for the same reason. So if ur looking for a fun game stop ur searching and get GUILD WARS... trus 
 me you wont regret it..... Beautiful game and very enjoyable... plus NO MONTHLY FEES!! take that 
 World of Warcraft!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bakakaizoku720
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 28, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  Thier are several reasons why I never found myself enjoying an MMORPG:
  
  1) Monthly Fees!? Who wants to pay those?
  2) Every time I go to do a quest I get really annoyed 
 because everyone steels my kills and stuff.
  3) Leveling Up gets repeditive, and you have to spend tons of time to be even remotely good at 
 the game.
  
  Arena Net knew exacly what i wanted in an MMO.
  
  1) No montly fees
  2) When you leave a city, only ur party is out with you in the overworld. So you never need to take 
 a crap load of time to do quests.
  3) Level cap at 20!! It's perfect. You don't have to play alot to be good at the game!
  
  There's 
 so much more to this game. The graphics are absolutly stunning. It's totaly immersive and the whole 
 game is amazingly competitive. I bought this game the day after release and I'm still playing! 
 Buy it. It's well worth it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yazu13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a refreshing addition to the MMO genre that features splenty of role playing and 
 player versus player combat that you won't want ot miss out on.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  The first thing that you will notice about NCsoft's latest addition to their library of MMO games, 
 is that it's really not an MMORPG. What appears at first glance to be another World of Warcraft, 
 is actually the closest thing we'll ever get to Diablo online. Guild Wars uses cities as hubs to 
 meet other users, trade items, and buy new equipment, but everywhere else in the game world is 
 instant to you and your party. This means that you'll never have to wait for a respawn or specific 
 item drop again, but you'll also feel a lot less connected to the world since you and your party 
 are in fact teh only non-NPC characters in it. 
  
  Another anti-MMO feature worth mentioning is that there is no monthly fee, so after you buy Guild 
 Wars, you'll never have to pay for it again.
  
  Since Guild Wars' role playing mode is, in essence, a giant vehicle for creating co-op and single 
 player experiences, the lack of a decent way to find a party is a pretty glaring ommission. If 
 continued use of the "looking for a group" chat window is going to be a problem for you, you can 
 still fill your ranks with AI controlled NPC characters. While these characters are, in general, 
 a lower level than you, their AI is nearly flawless.
  
  If you're tired of doing quests and role playing, Guild Wars has an expansive player vs player 
 mode as well. You start off at the max level of 20 with several basic abilities, but can also use 
 skills and items found or gained in the role playing mode. So, there are plenty of battle modes 
 to keep you happy and serve as a great alternative to standard RPG gameplay.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Graphically, Guild Wars is about as good as it gets. The landscapes 
 and characters are technically and artistically beautiful. While there are a few m inor bugs you'll 
 still find yourself fully immersed into the world of Guild Wars.
  
  The story starts off mild and will have you doing short, and for the most part, meaningless missions 
 for the people of Ascalon. But waht you soon realise, is that you're in a gigantic tutorial. the 
 long held walls of Ascalon fall, your country is overrun, and the real game begins. The long tutorial 
 really shows you just how much damage was done to the land as well as making you feel connected 
 to the story.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  All told, Guild Wars has hundreds of hours of gameplay and all of them are enjoyable. So if you're 
 tired of the same old MMORPG experience, give Guild Wars a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Perth68
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 27, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  The thing that hooked me about guildwars was the design. It is designed to be competive from the 
 ground up and to operate without subscription fees. It has a low level cap at 20, which is easily 
 attainable in about 15 hours or so, though likely will take longer as you explore the massive world 
 participating in various quests. They're no Uber Items in this game, sure there are Items that 
 are harder to obtain but theyre bonus like 20% chance to cast twice as fast or other non game ruling 
 attributes. It runs on one server and the locations are instanced. Towns form like little chatting 
 areas, with characters and npc's to interact with, with multiple districts of people almost like 
 channels. Areas where combats take place are only for the party that you entered it with.
  
  The game restricts you to 8 skills that are available to your use at a time. This is where 
 the game is frequently referenced to being like a collectable card game (ie: Magic The Gathering) 
 because the limited skill sets make you make a "deck" or "build" or a set of strategized skills 
 that allows you to deal with several situations and perform a task.
  
  The roleplaying element in this game is fairly strong, it bares alot of resembelence to Diablo 
 II and Dungeon Siege. Not to say its nearly the same but if you want a comparison there it is. 
 You attack with the mouse click all over the place and can adjust the camera angle from first person 
 all the way out to far out third. Missions typically entail running around and killing several 
 monsters around the various locations in tyria accomplishing objectives such as gathering certain 
 pieces, delivering items, and so forth. The storyline is there and has its good points, but in 
 the end it turns out being mediocre.. though you may find it better because I skipped two very important 
 missions in the middle by accident = /. Speaking of the scenery in guild wars it is quite well 
 done. The game looks great and plays very well even on modest systems. The battle sounds are good 
 also and Jeremy Soule is the composer of the soundtrack to the game that is really good, but sounds 
 abit repitive after awhile.
  
  After all the questing and saving the world dealies, you can spent your time killing your friends 
 in a very competitive balanced pvp that guild wars offers. This is quite a deep part of the game 
 and it was I have spent the majority of my time. Guild wars even offers a Tournament with cash 
 moneys for Guild Battles.
  
  Speaking of guilds, in guild wars you pretty much need to find a group of friends to form a group, clan, 
 guild with as the community can get very annoying at times, in fact generally I play with friends, friends 
 of friends, or henchman when it really comes down to it. Guild wars also lacks a very effective 
 trading system, its pretty much the same old spam trade channels like in diablo, it lacks another 
 system to effectively locate buyers and sellers.
  and for pvp you still have to unlock and earn skills to be able to use them so while it has substantially 
 less "grind" to get things it still has it. 
  
  all in all a very fun and time consuming game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blood_Virus
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2006 3:52 am PT
Review:  Guildwars has something for everyone whether your a grinder, player vs player person, role player, 
 strategist, squad base player, or just like to explore guildwars has more of it than any other 
 game ever available. 
  
  when starting this game I was skeptical cause it was free every month to play. I thought it would 
 be crap cause without monthly support i figured it would die out. I has since become the largest 
 mmorpg ever played and has spread throughout twenty nations. I still play it now ten months later 
 and its still fresh and comeing out with an whole new expantion which is a game by itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3abden
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 26, 2006 4:58 pm PT
Review:  As a user I'll tell you what I found about this game:
  
  This game is a PvP game so if you are not into doing PvP and this stuff better for you to play 
 WoW as its on to PvE much more that GW.
  
  The PvE is ok but for me I dont like doing quests and all that crap, killing ppl is the best so 
 I might just spent like 1/3 of my playing time on quests and the rest just doing PvP.
  
  who tells you that this game is crappy he just not into it... man this game has an advantage as 
 you can have varous numbe rof builds and all are different ! Me/Mo is not as Me/E !!!
  
  Now i'm waiting for the expo :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hoppy63
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 26, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Hello I am the great Hoppy63. I have had this game for only about a 5 days now and I already love 
 it. I still think the best part about is that the online play is FREE!!! Everyone can find something 
 in this game whether it be PvP (player vs player) GvG (Guild vs Guild) or just playing through the 
 story which I might add is HARD. If you already own this game then that is great and I hope i see 
 you on there. If you dont own it YOU MUST BUY THIS GAME. If anyone cares my characters name is 
 Hoppy The Champion. Until Next time this is Hoppy63. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rik0shey
Rating: 8.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 8:39 pm PT
Review:  This game has some of the funnest player vs environment in an mmo. Doing the missions is really 
 fun... its just too bad that its so short. Getting to level cap is not hard and anyone can get to 
 level cap without even knowing how to play their class. 
  
  The pvp is great. It has the most balanced system out there. This game really has no uber classes 
 that own all others. It really forces people to play organized and use teamwork and strategy. If 
 this game had a higher level cap and more missions I would give it a perfect.
  
  Definately a game everyone should check out and atleast play though the missions and check out 
 the pvp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsycoticlySound
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 24, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Guild Wars 2 days after launch and have logged in 839 hours just to ensure I got the 
 full experience of the game before writing this review. First off, I would like to discuss the 
 presentation values of Guild Wars. The graphics are excellent and far surpass that of any other 
 MMO on the market, however, I really would have liked to see more environments to explore. The 
 music, while not the best, is quite epic and still sets the atmosphere pretty well. Gameplay is 
 fast and fierce, whether it's PvP or PvE. There are 6 professions which all vary from your average 
 spellcaster to vampire-like Necromancers. There are also 150 spells per class, so you can always 
 change it up a bit and try different skill sets. The replay value (as standard with all MMOs) is, 
 of course high. Once you cap at level 20, you can still PvP, ascend, or try to unlock every skill 
 available to your profession. What makes this game so appealing is the fact that it breaks out 
 of the typical MMO mold in that it's free. That is to say, you only pay for the game itself and 
 nothing else -- no monthly payments to drain your hard-earned money away. Overall, whether you're 
 new to the MMO experience or a veteran, I'm sure you'll find something to love in Guild Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordGoo
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  I've played sense Early Beta's and I hadn't wirtten a review before now, and here we are with factions 
 looming I should feel ashamed. The truth is that I love the game so much I'd rather be in it then 
 out here. 
  
  I needed a stretch, giving my office chair some relief from my not to nice side. 
  
  If you 
 haven't played; now is the time, the weekend of this review is an Open Beta to introduce factions 
 but with a proper invite you can check out the whole game, get a feel for it then decide if you 
 want it or not. 
  
  The game is a blast to play. It's got all the action and excitment one would hope from multiplayer, 
 without all the grinde.
  
  The Max level in Guild wars is a cool Twenty, and you can jump in right at 20, on a none Roleplay 
 Retricted PVP Only Character. In fact the Most Effective PVP Players are those that have UNLOCKED 
 every skill, rune and weapon item available. 
  
  At this point you can make an Instantly useable toon that you can discard without any risk of loss 
 any time you want, any way you want. You are any group or Guilds dream. You would be able to assume 
 any role any time anywhere instantly on demand.
  
  At the time I write this I happen to have a Fully UnlockedChapter 1 account so believe me I know. 
 (Please dont PM me with guild invites I am taken by [AB] )
  
  This is done by either gaining faction in PVP Victories or through PVE (Full Role Play Questing) . 
 Using your RPG Character to open Skills gets you a nice boost in getting to the goal of unlocking 
 your PVP Elements. But with enough PVP hours of Lashing, and Bashing, you could accomplish all 
 the unlocks without ever stepping foot inside the Storyline.
  
  This is a HIGHLY ADDICTIVE fast paced action MMO Tournament based game. Go get it!
  
  GO AMAZON 
 BASINERS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bowon
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 23, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  I have started this game and it is absolutely addicting. The character system is well structured, 
 interesting and fun. Missions may sometimes be perplexing but it is a great way to upgrade your 
 character. You may choose your primary professions as Warrior, Monk, Ranger, Mesmer, Elementalist, 
 and Necromancer. With choosing one of these professions, you may also choose a second profession 
 (i. e warrior/monk) in which skills are incorporated with your character. Once you are well off 
 into the game you may start dueling PvP with your Guild. Depending on Nationalities, wars are also 
 fought at the Hall of Heroes in order to gain the favor of the gods. If you would like to excel 
 through the game quickly, you may use methods such as 'running' or 'power leveling' where you pay 
 higher levelled players to get you to places faster. I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BruceCave
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 23, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  This game, I have to to say, is made pretty detailed and great. The graphics, the music, the gameplay, 
 the idea are all superb. There are many choice in characters in this game and is pretty highly 
 addictive. There are unlimited missions because new missions are added into the game everyday. 
 There are even special events during festivals like Halloween, Christmas, even Valentines! For 
 me, I love the part where you choose male or female. All female characters in this game have big 
 boobs that I always admire... Guilty pleasure, I think... The only thing bad about this game is 
 that it lags a lot . It lags, because it is very popular. The map is huge, you'll waste time to 
 walk from one place to another . Also, I find it pretty amusing to sit in front of another players 
 corpses and type in LOL. Overall, this game is wonderful, and I strongly recommend everyone to 
 buy this game. NCsoft never dissapoints you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inuyasha_Iic
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is..... I don't know where to start. I really enjoyed the way this game was built. One 
 thing I really like about it is that it's not a game that anyone could get really mad at, just 
 really board. For example; if you try a mission over and over again, you'll just get really board. 
 This game I would think doesn't have too much of a replay value. Everything is so repetitive. I 
 usually don't play for months at a time, then get interested again, and start playing everyday. 
 I usually save the gameplay for holidays because then the game has some cool things you could do, 
 although you gota wait a long time to do some of them. I would highly suggest this game to any 
 one looking for an awesome MMORPG game. I can't wait to see what factions is like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackph0en1x
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 23, 2006 6:11 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a great online RPG, where you create a character, buy new armor and weapons to it 
 to fight monsters that have ruined Tyria in a war. You can choose one of the isx professions, Monk, 
 Ranger, Elementalist, Mesmer, Necromancer and Warrior. You choose your skills depending on your 
 profession. Monks have lots of healing skills, Warriors great damage skills, Elementalists use 
 fire, water, earth and air to attack, rangers use the forces of nature and their animal companies, 
 necromancers the power of the death, and mesmers illusions.
  The story is good, you can first level up some in the undestroyed Tyria, do quests and get some 
 "beginner spells". When your ready, you can go to a war to try and defeat the Charr but lose. It 
 comes a "2 years later" text and your in a ruined Tyria with everything destroyed. You fight monsters 
 and do quests to level up.
  Some of the quests are way too hard I think. The max level is only 20, and I think it's too low. 
 In many other games you can level up to level 100, and I think 20 is a little too low, because 
 you reach it very soon and when your level 20 you get a little bored on playing because you can't 
 level up anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zua12
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2006 4:46 am PT
Review:  Many MMORPG fans are apprehensive about something common to games of the genre : a small sum of 
 money every month to play them. Arenanet looks to revolutionize online role playing by doing something 
 that fans all over the world would most definitely appreciate. In a seemingly bold move, they excluded 
 the concept of pay-to-play in Guild Wars, their first entry into the crowded market of MMORPGs. 
 Yea, Guild Wars doesn't demand the monthly sacrifice of a little piggy that has been fed only coins 
 and currency. Arenanet just asks for a small one-time payment which is the price of the game. While 
 the game retails only in a few countries, gamers from other parts of the world are not denied the 
 opportunity of playing Guild Wars. The game is also available in a very interesting alternative 
 distribution option. Players can buy a key from publisher NCSoft's website and also download a 
 20mb base installer file. Accounts can be created with using the key and the game downloads levels 
 and such only as you need it. This seems like a novel idea, especially when the player has a quick 
 Internet connection. Large game files don't hog disk space until the player requires it. On my 
 256kbit connection, each level took around five minutes to download and of course, this happens 
 only the first time you visit a new place.
  
  At first flash of Eden
  
  
  
  Guild Wars begins conventionally with players creating characters after logging into their accounts. 
 Each account allows for a maximum of 4 characters at a given time. Players get to choose from different 
 unique classes. Your character or Hero, as called in the game starts off at Ascalon City, a lush 
 and colourful paradise in the land of Tyria. The visual magnificence of the game throws itself 
 at your face instantly. Everything looks positively splendid. The amount of attention Arenanet 
 has paid to minute details seems enormous. Mountains, lakes, forests, ruins and the rest of the 
 landscape make your jaw drop quite easily. Not to mention the games' monsters, NPCs (Non Playing 
 Characters) and the few hundred highly customizable heroes controlled by other players across the 
 seas. Along with the artwork, you also get oh so smooth animation. It is entirely possibly to get 
 carried away initially and spend a good half hour watching a Ranger take out an arrow from her 
 quiver and send it whizzing through the air with the help of her longbow. Trees shed dry leaves, 
 snow falls gently on mountains and your Hero creates ripples while wading through water which by 
 itself is highly reflective. Guild Wars also features some brilliant lighting effects by MMORPG 
 standards. The game has a very soft look on the whole and is very easy on the eyes. Players with 
 older graphic cards need not mourn as the game plays surprisingly smoothly even on lower end computers 
 while continuing to look great. The aural aspect of the game is nice as well. Weapons and spells 
 have great sound effects accompanying them and the ambient sounds along with the background music 
 are very pleasing to hear. The only letdown would probably be the fact that the background music 
 can get repetitive after long hours of play.
  
  Fits India like a glove
  
  
  
  For Indian MMORPG lovers who may find the monthly fees of games like WoW a bit too high when converted 
 into local currency, Guild Wars definitely seems like a great choice. Online purchase of a key 
 requires a credit card and the price is approximately 50$ (US) which seems extremely fair considering 
 the kind of content that the game has to offer. For those contemplating about pings and playability 
 on overseas servers, the best is yet to come. During the course of play, there was no lag whatsoever 
 at any point of time. The game felt like a single player game being played locally. Its safe to 
 say that no review can really do justice to this great game. The best way would be to try it out 
 yourself. Now, if you'll excuse me I'll get back to my quests.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 23, 2006 1:53 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is the game that I have been waiting for, a FREE MMORPG. And it sure doesn't hurt that 
 it comes with superb production values to boot.
  
  Gameplay: Being more of a PvE gamer, the missions in GW provides lots of hours of entertainment. 
 I have basically finished the game with all the types of chars except for mesmer and it was fun 
 to approach the missions in different ways depending on my character class. While I dnt PvP much, 
 the PvP is very well balanced in terms of skills. And of course, this being Guild Wars, I was lucky 
 to join a great guild with wonderful gamers from all walks of life. 
  
  Graphics: Lots eye candy here, and the surprising thing is that it will run even on low end PCs 
 and still look good. A perfect 10 cos of this.
  
  Sound: Jeremy Soule composes the tracks for GW. Nuff said.
  
  Value: Well, 1000+ hrs pretty 
 much speaks for itself. Now I can't wait for Factions to arrive next mth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davidwwone
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 12:57 pm PT
Review:  this game is fantastic! it really is i cant rate this game enough. the graphics are fantastic the 
 game play is very simple but very effective there are always lots of people online to play and 
 the best thing is that its free free i tell you none of this $10 a month crap for playing a game 
 and that is what makes this game. the freedom to walk anywhere to live a different life in a different 
 world for free you can make friends and do you know the best thing about this game is you can be 
 who you want to be a monk a ranger a warrior evil good buy this game and join in the fun now. thank 
 you for reading my review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaim_i
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 21, 2006 12:27 pm PT
Review:  i got this game back in august, play for about a few week got bored. then i started to play it 
 again in February cause they got some new update. surprisingly good cause you could do some one 
 the campaigns and there's actually a story to it, not like other MMORPG out their. Great so far 
 still trying to get my 500k armor. and take forever to get 10k for the noob. Well my friend and 
 i already deciding to buy faction:'O. there's is a bad thing about it when u travel u have go throught 
 the portal most of the time u play solo so u wouldn't other player. they have to e in your party 
 in order to see them. kind of stupid thought 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr4goNPL
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 21, 2006 7:00 am PT
Review:  Not so long ago, GameSpot has written a hands-on to Guild Wars Factions. I was interested in Guild 
 Wars from late February this year. 20th March 2006 was my lucky day. My brother bought me an original 
 boxed copy of Guild Wars. I'm playing this right now, and I'm very impressed. The game puts player 
 in Tyria - mystical and magical world crashed by wars. These wars has been started by Guilds - 
 something like clans or teams. The Guilds are breaking through Tyria, completing quests, earning 
 gold and rewards. The storyline isn't that important, but you'll want to complete them. There are 
 many bonuses from completing main quests like rare and powerful items, tons of gold and experience. 
 The most important thing to make you interested in GW is great gameplay, graphics, gameplay, sound 
 and, most of all, FREE. You can play it as long as you want and it's cheap. Yeah, I know, Polish 
 gamers may say: "What? 130 PLN is cheap!? Are you crazy?". It wasn't so easy to earn the money, 
 but finally I have it. Just think about it: for playing WoW for one year, you will pay 600 PLN 
 for 12 months of playing + 200 PLN for the CDs. For next years only 600 PLN. But for Guild Wars 
 you will pay only 130 PLN + rest of years played are free. I recommend this game, it's the one 
 of the best games of 2005. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siephanax
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2006 5:36 pm PT
Review:  I'm a relative newcomer to the whole Guild Wars scene and I've only really put a few hours into 
 it so far. I am a veteran of Dungeon Siege however and I've noticed that Guild Wars plays a lot 
 like it. Which doesn't mean that it is bad by any means, cause I had a blast playing DS. Guild 
 Wars is much more graphically and technically advanced of course and the multiplayer options are 
 excellent. The BEST thing about Guild Wars is that it is free to play online! It's just the thing 
 to help wheen me off of World of Warcraft. All in all great game, but if you have the extra money 
 to throw around and endless hours of free time go with WOW, all around better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HitokiriZoro
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 20, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  When i first bought Guild Wars i was like omg it's so wonderful (that was in pre-ascalon) . There 
 you get a bunch of quest that are fairly easy to do by yourself, with a group of players or you 
 can hire henchmen to go along with you on your journey (quests, missions or exploration of the world) . 
 Towards the ending of pre-ascalon you have to form a party to be able to do some quests, thats 
 a good part because you get to know how the party system works. As i mentioned before the graphics 
 looks great in this chapter, the music is also great but it gets boring after some time, but you 
 can buy music packs so you have different music (i haven't tho) .
  
  So apart from graphics and sound you see that you have eight slots for skills which you obtain 
 from vendors (NPCs) by buying them, you can steal them from monsters (that is when you get a certain 
 skill) or you can learn them when you complete certain quests. There are six professions and your 
 character can have two professions one primary and the other secondary. Each profession has plenty 
 of skills so if you have a character with two professions you can have a lot of skills to mess 
 with.
  
  The equipment is also diverse, it may look the same but you can use dye's on your armour so it 
 doesn't look like your character was made in a factory. The weapons are also diverse, each one 
 has different attributes and you can enhance them with runes the same goes for armour.
  
  After you finish pre-ascalon you can be up to level 8 but that's not much fun since you level up 
 fast it is probably best if you leave there as soon as possible. Great now you're done with pre-ascalon 
 and are now in ascalon (present time) . The scenery is for my taste too barren (mostly sand and ruins 
 here and there) , there isn't much going on like in pre-ascalon and the colour is mostly brown. 
 You get a bunch of skills quite fast so on you go fight the monsters... here you'll notice that 
 you can't solo because most monsters are in a "team" of three. I don't think PvE is that fun if 
 you'r not in a party with players (not henchmen) , mostly because henchmen don't know what you want 
 to do or would be best for your team.
  
  PvP is something that is, at least for me, well made. There are plenty of arenas where you can 
 fight. There are different styles of fighting not just which team kills the other. It is always 
 exciting until the very end of the fight. I haven't been playing PvP much but i will when i feel 
 like i have decent equipment (monks get targeted first... go figures) , but that doesn't mean any 
 of the professions has a disadvantage because they are all equal. 
  
  If you're more of a PvE type and you like to do quests than this game has plenty of them to satisfy 
 even a "questoholic" (i probably made that word up just now :P ) but i hope that you know what 
 i mean. The map is huge so you won't be finished with the game in a week, even if you play 24/7 
 (i doubt any one has that much free time anyway) . There are a lot of monsters and you sometimes 
 have to prepare your skills if you're going to kill different types of monsters, because some skills 
 don't work on certain monsters as well as some other skills do. So i like the diversity here otherwise 
 you wold just take your eight best (in your opinion) skills and fight with them during your whole 
 journey. 
  
  More than that i can't say because i'm only on 1/2 of the map and the best is still yet to come. 
 The only thing i haven't mentioned is that the cap is at level 20 because this game is supposed 
 to be skill based. 
  
  If you like my review, you like to play RPGs and have a little money you can spend than by all 
 means buy Guild Wars it'll brighten your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Myrrinth
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 19, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Ah, Guild Wars - an impressive, engrossing, and fun MMORPG that uses unmatched cooperation and 
 player versus player elements to create a highly addictive game that still draws me in after almost 
 a year of owning it.
  
  How does Guild Wars do it? When in the field, players have their own private map to explore and 
 play on - without worry of spawn camping. The PvP element is typically fresh and exciting too - 
 with the developers providing frequent updates to the game. The fact that there is no monthly fee 
 provides a nice perk too. ^_^
  
  Now, the reason I call this "Reflections" is because of my experience as a Guild Wars veteran. 
 Here's the scoop:
  
  The story is alright, great sequences, and is necessary for the awesome "15k armor" that provides 
 little more than aesthetic benefits. It is also necessary to beat the game to get to the area that 
 sells the best skills, and that has the best drops to sell. However, the GW economy is rather weak 
 because of gold selling and a method of selling wares that is laughable at best. Selling items 
 in the "Trade" channel amounts to little more than spamming "WTS Object for x platinum - PM me" 
 over and over. Take a lesson from Final Fantasy XI and use some sort of auction system.
  
  not that they story of PvE element is bad, it's just not the meat of the game. Really, it's more 
 of a beneficial side track for players that want specialized characters or completionists.
  
  Now for the fun - PvP. You can PvP on par with everyone pretty much out of the box thanks to 
 the ability to create an exclusively-PvP character with full levels and equipment. Note: If you 
 decide that PvP is for you, expect to invest in a headset with a microphone so that you can use 
 TeamSpeak. Also, I recommend that no matter what you prefer to play as, always be prepared and 
 willing to play as a monk (i. e. healer) ... be flexible or you will suffer the penalty of not getting 
 groups.
  
  If you really like groups - join or build a guild. Guild Wars allows members to make their own 
 guilds, complete with cape and a private island (for those who can afford) . Combined with the PvP 
 element, you can spend many a night living the life of your Guild Wars character. I know I did 
 - and if you have ever like playing RPGs with other people -or enjoy MMORPGs in general- buy this 
 game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameForLife
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 19, 2006 1:14 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of RPG games from the classic Bard's Tale and Wizardry, to Neverwinter Nights and Star 
 Wars Knights of the Old Republic, I found Guild Wars to be similar to Morrowind in scope. The visuals 
 are lush but the monsters and missions are spread a little thin. At times I found myself crossing 
 the same areas multiple times and fighting the same monsters over and over. Special items are too 
 rare and leveling is a slow, monotonous process.
  
  I have enjoyed the game but it is more of an MMO than a single player RPG. I love the fact that 
 the online play is free, I have a hard time paying more than $50 for a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eldublay
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  Well if you love pvp and i sure do this is the game for you. You do not to put in countless hours 
 to reach Max Level (witch i like) . The game has mission regions (where you get a party 4,6 or 8 
 then enter a mission only were you party is) there is about 20mission once you get our of pre. 
 not including not main mission.
  Next Pvp is the best. you get faction and buy new skills with it.. there is about 5 different types 
 of pvp including Gvg/pvp areans/Hoh
  this game is a must buy + ITS FREE TO PLAY ONLINE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sskott
Rating: 6.3
Date: Mar 17, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is very limited through various aspects. The game itself does most of the fighting for 
 you, you can't jump over things, you can't go in water, you can't walk off ledges... which forces 
 you to always find a way around. The quests can often be difficult to follow, the option of PVP 
 only (starting at max level sort of ruins the game) Its only considered an MMORPG when you're in 
 town, you're required to join up with a party in town, or hire merchants that are no good. If you 
 try to go alone you'll likely get killed.
  
  There really isn't much I liked about this game other than the music, and graphics.
  
  I quit 
 this game after one week of solid playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkzero
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 17, 2006 5:05 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is renowned for being the first MMORPG to do without the online monthly fees. Thats 
 right, you heard correctly, you only pay for the game, and you play online for as long as you like, 
 whenever you like, for free! Guild Wars also places more emphasis on player strategy, than on simple 
 grinding to get the best character. In fact, the developers ArenaNet have distinguished this game 
 as being a Competitive/Cooperative Online Role Playing Game (or CCORPG for short) . While Guild 
 Wars is a definite step away from the conventional MMORPG, it is also a superb game to play. 
 
  
  You take on the role as one of many skilled questers enlisted by the kingdom of Ascalon to thwart 
 off the Charr invasion. The Charr are a race of barbaric humanoid beasts hell bent on destroying 
 your homeland. Youll begin performing tasks to help the defences of the kingdom and also launch 
 counter offences. However, as you continue to fight off this unrelenting threat, more mysteries 
 unfold as you eventually journey around the continent of Tyria. When youre not fighting for Ascalon, 
 youll be able to take numerous sidequests to help the citizens of Tyria with their numerous problems. 
 Youll also be able to go out and hunt for items, and sell and craft materials. Finally, youll 
 be able to enter arenas and compete against fellow rising heroes in competitive player versus player 
 combat.
  
  Before you begin, you must first create your character. You are given the option to create a PvP 
 character (who will only have access to PvP arenas, but will be fully levelled with the best available 
 armour) , or a Role-Playing character, which will have access to all parts of the game, but will 
 have to be slowly levelled up. This choice caters for different players. Those who want to slowly 
 enjoy the story of the game, and raise their character to perfection will enjoy playing a role-playing 
 character. This is also the only way for you to unlock new skills and items for PvP. PvP characters 
 are available so that you can skip the hassle of raising a character, and get straight into PvP 
 combat. Provided you have the necessary skills unlocked, this gives you quick access into making 
 potential builds you want to try out competitively.
  
  After choosing which type of character you want to make, youll have the choice of character profession 
 which is an important part in determining how your character will play out strategically. There 
 are six core professions available to choose from, each one unique and interesting in their own 
 way. Warriors are the frontline soldiers designed to take heavy damage and to deal it back. They 
 focus on melee combat and can work in causing serious wounds and stunning opponents. Monks are 
 your classic healing class, as they have various healing and protection spells to safeguard their 
 party. They also have smiting spells available to them which help them take the offensive, especially 
 against dark enemies who take extra damage. The elementalist is your classic arcane spellcaster. 
 They have a variety of spells covering each of the different elements: fire, water, air and earth. 
 Fire spells are for damaging groups of targets, water for slowing down targets, air spells damage 
 specific targets, and earth spells are mainly useful protection spells. The ranger is also another 
 typical class, who uses their bow to attack from long range, using a variety of skills to poison, 
 stun and damage their enemies. They may also call upon an animal companion to help them in battle, 
 and are able to setup traps for unsuspecting enemies. The necromancer is a spellcaster who relies 
 on the dead for their power. They can summon undead companions as aids in battle, spread deadly 
 hexes and diseases; they can use vampiric life-stealing powers, and use corpses as weapons. Finally, 
 the mesmer is a unique class, which relies heavily on strategically countering the opposition, 
 whether it is by reflecting damage from spells, stealing energy from the enemy, or casting powerful 
 hexes on your opponent. Each class plays as a unique experience, and the variety is welcoming. 
 Adding to that variety is the ability to later choose a secondary class. While you maintain the 
 look of your primary class, youll be able to access skills and secondary attributes of your secondary 
 class. This widens the range of skills available to each character.
  
  After you have chosen a profession, this will determine a set of looks available to your character, 
 as you customise certain appearance settings, ranging from the hairstyle, hair colour, face and 
 height. After finally naming your character, youre ready to begin.
  
  One gameplay aspect that certainly distinguishes Guild Wars is how action packed the combat can 
 become. Youll come across numerous different monsters to fight, and each battle is over quite 
 quickly. Fights become brawls of strategy as you try to lower your opponents health bar to zero 
 first. When the battle is over, your health quickly recovers back up to full, preparing you for 
 the next encounter.
  
  Each character is only allowed eight skills to use in battle at any one time, however, you have 
 the opportunity to swap skills at any town or outpost. This allows you to focus on specific strategies 
 pertaining to the skills you currently have in your skill bar. Thus, the emphasis is placed on 
 who can put out the best strategy or counter strategy to overcome their opponents. This is what 
 leads to such a variable PvP experience, which also transposes itself nicely in the single player 
 campaign. Each character class has approximately 150 different skills available to them, each of 
 them unique in properties, which help distinguish different strategies. Each one is useful in their 
 own situations, and can prove to be invaluable when used correctly. As you progress in the game, 
 youll unlock newer skills through questing, skill merchants, or through skill capping, which opens 
 up your range of variety to choose from. This doesnt necessarily make you more powerful, but it 
 does make you more versatile, and is wholly satisfying as you discover new tactics to use as you 
 expand your skill list.
  
  The role playing campaign, takes you on a journey throughout Tyria. Youll be able to perform the 
 main missions with either a party of other players, or if none are available, with NPC henchmen. 
 While the henchmen are no great substitute for a real player, their AI is competent enough to allow 
 you to play through the majority of missions with them if you so choose to do so. However, the 
 game experience is greatly enhanced as you play with fellow humans, as youll be sharing the tension 
 and strategising between yourselves on how to get past the next section of the mission. However, 
 given that the server atmosphere is so relaxed, there is a tendency for some players to give up 
 easily and drop out in the middle of a mission, much to the disappointment to the rest of the party. 
 However, if you play with people you trust, for instance friends, or fellow guildsmen, you cant 
 go wrong. The campaign alone can take around 100 hours to complete along with all the side quests 
 youll be doing. This just goes to show how much effort has gone into making this game so expansive.
 
  
  For those looking for competitive PvP combat, this is where Guild Wars really delivers. The variety 
 of strategy in each character alone is enormous, let alone the strategies that can be made with 
 parties of up to eight players. This can allow for some fun experimentation, as you hone your skills 
 to become a great player. To be successful at PvP, youll need to be quick with the use of your 
 skills, good at communicating with your fellow party members, and be good at observing the tactics 
 of your opponent and adapting to them. While this takes a while to get good at, once you are adept 
 at it, PvP opens up a wide range of opportunity. Guild Wars offers PvP on numerous levels. First, 
 there are randomised PvP arenas, which pit you with a group of random allies, against a similarly 
 random group of enemies. This puts emphasis on thinking up strategies on the spot and making the 
 best of your available options. Secondly, there are arranged PvP arenas, where you can form groups 
 of up to eight players, to build specific strategies and then compete. Finally, should you join 
 a guild, you will be able to compete with them in guild matches, to try and climb the guild ladder 
 and claim fame and glory. PvP also adds extra awards, as participation will grant you Faction, 
 which can be used to unlock new skills and items for use in PvP as well.
  
  Whichever part of Guild Wars you choose to play, it is easily accessible to find friends online, 
 as there are no servers, simply districts which you can easily jump from one to another. If you 
 have friends playing from another country, you can simply jump to the International District and 
 meet up with them there. Chatting to fellow players is also made easy. You will have an open chat 
 channel available for each district, a trade channel, a channel specifically for your party. Youll 
 also be able to whisper to a friend, or to your guildmates, as long as they are online, no matter 
 where they are. This makes it readily accessible to organise groups with friends very easily.
 
  
  Graphically, the game is amazing. The world of Tyria has a mystical enchantment about it. Each 
 of the different environments has a unique feel to them, ranging from the deserted expanses, to 
 lush jungles, to warm beaches. The character models are also highly detailed, youll come across 
 fierce enemies, who look as threatening as they are, yet fit in the mystical world. Each of the 
 skills magical effects are like an assortment of fireworks, as different colours of projectiles 
 flourish across the screen, adding to the fantasy of the world. What makes it even better is that 
 Guild Wars can also run on computers with fairly low specifications. This allows a broad range 
 of players to play it. However, when maxed out, the graphics are simply amazing, with highly detailed 
 textures and models, and a nice dreamy blurred feel.
  
  The soundtrack is composed by Jeremy Soule, and does an amazing job at capturing the fantasy atmosphere. 
 Numerous times have I caught myself humming the main theme. The sound effects are also nice and 
 fitting, ranging from ambient background effects, to the grunts and roars of enemies, and the clash 
 of swords and projectiles. There is also some dialogue during the cutscenes of the main missions, 
 and these are well done, but done sparingly.
  
  When it all comes together, what you get is a fully enjoyable game which youll come back to time 
 and time again, without the hassle of online fees. Guild Wars caters for numerous players looking 
 for different gameplay experiences, and delivers a premium product. See you in Tyria. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2006 10:22 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the best online pc game I have ever had the privelege to play. The graphics are 
 completely amazing even on my slightly dated geforce 5500. The sound is nice to listen to and i 
 cant get enough of the score. The gameplay is really fun and intuitive. The overall presentation 
 of the game is just superb and makes you feel that you are in a completely different world. And 
 the lasting appeal is so much that I dont think I will stop playing this game even after retirement. 
 I can't just say enough about this game. The depth and the amount of skills available is mind blowing. 
 Seriously, and did I mention no online fees? Come on people, are you kidding me? This game is awesome. 
 Buy it now, and I assure you that you wont regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Torlof1123
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 16, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, I think the game is rigged to were there is a drug coming from the computer when 
 you play. I am addicted. Guildwars has so much to offer. There are massive guild vs. guild battles, 
 player vs. player, and roleplaying. Guilds are the best part. You get to buy a Hall to meet at, 
 capes, and have different ranks within the guild. You guild can also go to the hall of heros to 
 battle in the highest of tournament play. There are gods you dedicate points to to unlock pvp items, 
 a HUGE amout of skills to learn and combin. The skills is the thing I like the best. Being able 
 to get my maxed fire staff out and drain a chars health while beating it with a fireball is neat 
 sutff. The game is so immersive. I really cant belive its a multiplayer game somtimes because of 
 the depth of the quests. Missions are AWSOME! You get to assemble a team of either henchmen, other 
 players, or both in combination. The mission is where lots of the story progresses. Exploring can 
 be very benifitial too. Lots of times buying armour is very nice to, because in guild wars items 
 have reasonable prices. Gold is actually possible to find. There are so many great things to say 
 about this one game, and even more with factions. So, get up go buy it and try. Youll love it. 
 I think you understand how addicted I am by now. Thanks for reading :-) P. S. GW runs on about any 
 computer and any internet connection, so no excuses. PLAY IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dane2099
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 16, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Let me begin by saying that I really enjoy the game. I dont pretend to say that its the best one 
 ive ever played cause it isent so. But i got to say its one hell of a game. The best thing about 
 the game is that there is alot to do. The missions although sometimes maybe the same objectives 
 they do a good job in changing it up. Basically what i mean is they find new interesting ways to 
 do things you are used to do or do often. The AI is pretty solid I think. You have a range were 
 the enemies detect you and if they are in a big group you better believe that you are going to 
 get "gang banged". The comunity in the game is pretty helpfull, there will always be there jackasses 
 but its inevitable. If you are a dedicated player it wont take you much to reach high stats and 
 levels. There are alot of cool skills but i wish they were a little bit more original. The game's 
 lingo is self explanatory so their wont be a time were you will get lost. The only issue i found 
 was that sometimes your character goes hectic when there are alot of enemies and skills being used. 
 But besides that if you have a good PC all should go smooth. Great game over all and a excelent 
 pick up if you just cant pay the monthly fee of your tipical mmorpg. This game has a solid recommend 
 on my behalf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFry
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 16, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars Review
  By: StarFry64
  
  World of Warcraft and City of Heroes are two examples of great MMORPGs. This game, just came out 
 of nowhere and Guild Wars is hard to describe of what it is. There are two sides to this game, 
 RPG and PvP.
  
  The story to RPG isn't much original like WoW's but it is about the King looking for the bestest 
 guild who can beat up the enemies. RPG is your regular MMORPG with a story, quests, and such. RPG 
 is probably in my opinion the worst part of this game as it is still trying to be entertaining. 
 Although you can have a party and a guild which may seem familer to WoW players. If you are going 
 solo, there is A. I. to help you but as a result they usually aren't that helpful. This game is 
 better without having the RPG. 
  
  PvP is the bestest part of this game. It's all about you and your group trying to go trough obstacles 
 that come toward you. In this side, you are looking for the best in your group. PvP seems like 
 parody of Warcraft 3 in my opinion. PvP is great with teamwork and fun. There is one level where 
 there are two guilds or parties killing each other which just feels insane. Sure PvP in this game 
 isn't what you expected in a MMORPG but like I said, thank God it's here. Also in Pvp you can design 
 your character in a more detailed way. And you can choose him or her skills, what level should 
 she be in, what class, and etc. which makes PvP just nonstop decoration for your new character. 
 
  
  Other than the the sides of the game, the gameplay feels pretty much the same thing you'll see 
 in a MMORPG but more slower and boring. The graphics however are really better than Fable's. And 
 for those who haven't noticed, this game has light boom. The sound really doesn't sound orginal 
 but feels good because it fits right into the times when you are with your team fighting and etc. 
 The tilt is horrible because with or without a tutorial, this game still has the worst tilt. Another 
 part of Guild Wars' best parts to it is its value. The online play in this game is TOTALLY FREE. 
 Overall, I guess you can say it is hard to describe Guild Wars. But this game really is boring. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-director
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 14, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is an absolute must have for the MMORPGer on a budget. It has gameplay that easily rivals 
 and even surpasses the renowned World of Warcraft. The level curve is perfect for the 20 level 
 max. You will spend hours playing through your own campaign to get to level 20. And then the real 
 games begin. The player versus player world in this game is viciously competitive and highly addictive. 
 Dont feel bad if the first time you go into a game against real people and you die. In fact, be 
 ready for the experienced guys to crush you, like an ant. In the multiplayer, levels mean nothing, 
 since everybody's level 20, its all about how you put your character and your party together. Building 
 a guild of your own is one of the most rewarding things in the game, but dont feel that you HAVE 
 to make a guild of your own, guilds are always recruiting for more members. People tend to be fairly 
 friendly and if you ever ask for help, you're bound to find someone. Its a very communal environment. 
 This game is especially fun if you play with friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedi_vman
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Okay so it isn't exactly free, but at least there is not monthly fee. It also is quite fun with 
 the people you get to meet and the quests and missions you get to do. The fact that you can make 
 your own group with which you get to hang out with is very entertaining. The ability to also combine 
 two different professions/classes and have four different accounts to mess around with is also 
 quite a lot of fun to do. There is actually a good story with it and the graphics are not half 
 bad. The music is very enjoyable and really brings you into the actual mindset of what they game 
 is like. All in all I like playing this game very much. I would also suggest to anyone who likes 
 playing medival style games to pick this up and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 22111993
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 13, 2006 4:11 am PT
Review:  The latest entry into the already saturated Massive Multiplayer Online Game (MMOG) market, Guild 
 Wars strives to do away with many typical nuances Not only does it succeed, but I feel it has 
 set a new standard into how future online games (ESPECIALLY in the RPG fantasy setting) will be 
 created. 
  
  One standard this online game may set is the fact that there is NO monthly charge to play. You 
 buy the game, you play the game. No credit cards, no time cards, nothing. Every 6 months or so 
 and major expansion will be released, and this will cost some money to get, as expected, but the 
 streaming updates and support, and other goodies added in between releases are free. Also, almost 
 the entire game is instanced (except at towns, outposts, castles, and other meeting places) . This 
 allows much freedom in gameplay, and sets a new standard on the future. Gone are the days of waiting 
 in line to complete a quest, because there are scores of people ahead of you waiting to kill that 
 one boss. You get a mission, you go complete the mission. No lines, no waiting just strategy. 
 You want to attempt it solo? No problem there. The missions scale with you and what you have learned 
 from playing not just your levels. You want to go with a group? Great, grab a number of people 
 or friends in town and head out into the wilderness, for one example of MANY locations, and complete 
 the quest, all the while the system adjusting for who is on your team and what they know. And I 
 just dont mean instances like dungeons and such I mean the moment you step foot out of town, 
 you are instanced and the game tracks you and your group and even others in a similar instance 
 and calculates everything seamlessly. No more mindless camping mobs, no more kill stealing, no 
 more of those frustrating things that have been the doom of many other MMOGs. Also, this allows 
 the game to have only one, yesy ONE server world, since the lag is reduced by a huge amount wit 
 people in needeing to be in the same area all the time, since they often will be in a separate 
 instanced area. Gone are the days of having 20 server worlds separating people from each other. 
 Gone is the nasty lag monster rearing its ugly head. I have played now for many hours and have 
 encountered NO lag of any kind. I mean ZERO. 
  
  Now, you may think where is the fun in that, since there are no people to compete with? Also, 
 you may think oh, like Warcraft right? Well, the people who designed this game know all the instanced 
 tricks, since many of them were on the Warcraft team. The activate buttons system is mostly the 
 same as Warcraft too. But that is pretty much where the similarities end. The gameplay is very 
 smooth and once you learn the details (which happened quite quickly) , it becomes second nature. 
 
  
  Again, all a perspective thing. But to me THIS is what I wanted, THIS is what I will be playing, 
 and you know what? I wont be debating on whether I should continue paying per month cause it costs 
 me nothing. If I want to play, I will play. If not, it costs me nothing, since I am not paying 
 for time I am not using. WIN-WIN. Nothing gets an overall 5 stars in my book... nothing is perfect, 
 but THIS is really close... so I will round up to 5 :) . 
  
  Try it and see. Or even better, go look at the screenshots or download the video. They tell the 
 story right there.
  
  Gameplay:
  Subtle changes are everywhere (MANY for the better) , and may take a bit for people to get used 
 to is the new PvP concept. The competition is formed not through getting blindsided by some uber 
 level 1000 dude with way too much time on their hands, random player ganking, and whatnot. No, 
 this is much more structured, but definitely MUCH more fun. The reason is that there are many choices 
 in what type of PvP you want. Yep, what TYPE. Want a huge free-for-all environment to play in? 
 Check. Want a game of Grab the opponents flag? Got it. Want a group PvP match with people from 
 all over the world? Yep, got that too and more. 
  
  Character development in this game is quite intuitive. There are currently 20 levels for a character. 
 One COULD reach this point in MAYBE a month of casual play and maybe a week if you play more. Gone 
 are the days are having to drudge hours upon hours through mindless spawning mobs to gain a level 
 or reach the max. The end game is so well done (through both PvP and other things I wont spoil 
 my mentioning :) , and the amount of time is so short to reach it, that one can go through the world 
 and a nice slow pace and STILL be at a max level with great gear in a very short time. 
  
  On the subject of character development and again, it is a perceptive thing, but I love the way 
 it is setup. First off, for now (until the expansions) , non-humans need not apply. Literally. You 
 are human in this game. The customizing in not too bad, but the fact that everyone is human allows 
 a closer sense of community in the overall plot of the game. As usual, there are professions to 
 choose from as well. Currently, you could be a warrior, ranger, necromancer, monk-priest, elementalist, 
 and mesmir (illusionist) . Does not sound like much? Well, each profession has hundreds of skill 
 choices, AND the game allows you to choose a secondary profession from this list (with slight limitation 
 of the primary powers) , so you could have 2 of these professions, each profession, again, with 
 hundreds of skills in each profession for a HUGE number of combinations. You want to be a Holy 
 Paladin wairrior with the ability to heal, or even smite opponents? No problem. You want to be 
 a fire blasting wizard with the power to raise the undead? Got you covered. How about a bow wielding 
 ranger with the ability to raise a phantasmal illusion and scare the heck out of your opponents? 
 Alright. 
  
  Now, you are only allowed to take 8 skills or abilities with you when you leave town, so it's not 
 like you have to wade through hundreds of skills to use when you need them. The odds of running 
 into a person with the exact same skill set as you at any one time is almost zero. And this is 
 the last point. Skills are critical to this game. That and how you play them... not the fact that 
 you have no job, no life and are leveling a character for hours non-stop. Heck, I just did the 
 missions and before I knew it I was level 5... 1/4 of the way to max.
  
  Graphics:
  Incredible... at high settings it borders on phenomenal. AT low settngs it is very, very well done. 
 You have to see it to believe it.
  
  Sound:
  Very nice, the misic is very in line with what is happening around you, and the sound effects are 
 nice, but not overdone to the point of annoying.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 483paul
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 11, 2006 8:22 am PT
Review:  I have to admit. I played World of Warcaft and loved the game! When i quit playing WoW i tried 
 to play GW's but didn't connect with the game at all. I didn't enjoy it. But as i watched my friends 
 play it the interest started to build up again and i went out and bought my own copy of the game. 
 The game for me was a little harder to get into compared to WoW. But as i began to realize that 
 these are two different games and totally play different thats when i became intrigued in the world 
 GW's.
  
  The game is set up more like Diablo 2. You have towns and outposts where you can visit and interact 
 with players. When you leave that town or outpost its just you and who ever is in your group. Either 
 players or henchmen (NPC's) make the group. 
  
  The cap is lvl 20. That might seem low, and it is, but the game isn't set around level rank. It 
 is built around skill's. The more skills you get the more powerfull your character can become. 
 Also when you level your character you get attribute points. With these points you can place them 
 in your character build. For example for a Elementalist (mage) you can place these skills in your 
 fire magic to make your fire spells more powerfull. For a warrior place skills into your Swordsmanship. 
 These attribute points are also replaceable. So you can take those points out of Swordsmanship 
 and place them into Hammer's when you get a hammer for your warrior. A very nice feature that never 
 leaves you regretting your build.
  
  Money can pretty much get you anything in the game that you need. Armor has to be crafted and that 
 takes money. Weapons can be found and customized for your character. And player of any class can 
 use any weapon. But you will want to use the weapon that suites your class the best for maxium 
 damage. But you can trade and sell them to other players.
  
  The game looks great however the world isn't very interactive. The map is more linear. Also you 
 feel very restricted at times. When you just want to jump off a ledge to the ground below you can't. 
 Or leep over a tree log that is blocking your path you can't. Once you get over the restricted 
 feel you can see the beauty in the graphics of the world. It does look great!
  
  Character modeling is also good. However i do wish there were more customizations for your character 
 to make him unique. Also there aren't alot of armor types to buy. So you will find alot of characters 
 wearing the same armor. GW's does offer a very nice feature of being able to dye your armor colors. 
 So you can be the only one with Ascolon armor that is pink! 
  
  It is called Guild Wars for a reason. Because you join a guild and battle other guilds. I haven't 
 gotten to this part in the game yet so i haven't experienced anything first hand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zer0_Hour
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 10, 2006 1:37 pm PT
Review:  The game is as far as i can see perfect. Even if you don't normally play MMORPG's this game is 
 worth taking a look at. With awesome quests, weapons, Armor, spells, professions, and tons of side 
 things to do this game can keep you busy for hours upon hours. My only negative with this game 
 is the lag at some points but that isn't really something i would complain about because it isn't 
 bad. Meeting new allies, going out and doing all the quests you could want and nonstop entertainment? 
 What else could you want! One word i would use to describe this game *Breathtaking* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perlox
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 9, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Ok gamers here it is, finally a free MMORPG that doesnt suck!!!!!!!!!! Forget your runescape (and 
 worse [WoW] ) and pick up Guild Wars. This is truely a phenominal game that packs many simplified 
 RPG elements into a great online experience.
  Firstly the gameplay. It is a solid core that makes creating and playing a character interesting, 
 fun, and easy. No trying to calculate points and worrying aobut screwing up a character, everything 
 is easy as pie! The load times and downloads are fast and i have nothing bad to say.
  Next the graphics. I dont quite know how to put it besides beautiful and magical. every level is 
 orgasmicly alive. snowflakes look perfect as they fall slowly to the ground. the mountains and 
 plains are gorgeous and dont even get me started on pre-seering.
  The audio is another wonder of the game. it's an execellent score by Jeremy Soule.
  The plot, 
 level design, AI characters, spells, etc are perfect.
  The only negatives i can see is that the game is linear, and one of the downsides to being linear 
 is that some parts seem really repetitive if you make mulitple characters which im sure everyone 
 has and will do. So sometimes i get bored doing levels ive done a few times. The other thing that 
 doesnt really have to do with the game so much is that players are stupid (joining a game and then 
 leaving or something like that) but you get that with anygame.
  So for a hardcore or noob MMO player this is deifently a game to check out. And even those who 
 arent really into RPGs might want to find a friend and test it out because you might be surprised 
 how much fun this game really is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: julienelson
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  First of all this game DOES NOT rip off WoW. WoW uses the generic character clases that every other 
 rpg also use. That aside, it is a great game. The graphics are incredible but at times the phsics 
 seem to be EXTERIMLY broken. The quests never get repetitive and hardly ever do the overused "colloect 
 X of this object". The begining is amazing. You start out in A beautiful version of the kingdom 
 of ascalon. Soon once you have completed a number of newb missions you are shown a cut scene in 
 which ascalon is destroyed and droped back in to the game 5 years later. The map is huge, It would 
 take day, to run across it. Luckly There is a map that lets you travle to any City or outpost in 
 the gameworld. After a few mounthes of playing you will probably be lvl 20. By then you can no 
 longer lvl up and you have to really on stratigy to make it through the increasingly hard missions. 
 Best of all there is no mounthly fee!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mirgus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 9, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  Slaying various monsters. Making an edge for yourself with spells and control beasts and minions. 
 Does this awaken your appetite? Join Guild wars with millions of players all over the world in 
 this epic on-line roleplaying game. 
  
  The learning curve is quite normal lenght for a rpg, just about 2-4 hours. Though you learn more 
 and more as you play deeper in the game. Nothing too hard to handle. 
  The graphics are marvellous with exquisite landscapes and brilliant chracter design. 
  As far 
 as the gameplay goes, you'll be craving for more and more of GW as you play it. The various items, 
 skills and spells make the game even more addictive as you can't stop playing before you get your 
 hands on the best of the best. 
  In overall Guild wars is one of the best online games ever. The fact that there is no monthly fees 
 for playing the game makes it just unbeliveably addictive and fun. 
  You'll certainly get your moneys worth with this one.
  
  You don't want to miss this for the 
 world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megawavez
Rating: 7.3
Date: Mar 8, 2006 10:54 pm PT
Review:  This game has some great graphics & good sound. My problem is it just lacks depth. Quests are basically 
 run here and get this or kill this. I really can't remember the storyline, I just kind of stopped 
 paying attention - some of the plot points were actually a bit silly - the storyline really seems 
 to be a pretty thin excuse to let people run around and kill stuff.
  
  In truth, I'd say it's worth the $40 purchase price, but if you're like me, you'll lose interest 
 pretty quick once you've explored the different character options.
  
  Anywhooo... if you like WoW, guantlet and those kinds of things, you'll probably like this game. 
 If you looking for a good, rich story, might want to check elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kroloth
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 8, 2006 12:53 pm PT
Review:  GW is a great game and offers you various options. The best feature I found was that I didn't have 
 to have the full game downloaded the second I got it. Which allowed me to play faster, and download 
 the "maps" when they where needed. The 2 race combo is also very good. I've never been big in Online 
 games of this sort, but I actually enjoyed GW quite a bit. Most games I play lag on me, but this 
 one ran smoothly (by games I mean Massive Multi games) . GW is good, and recomended by me. The biggest 
 plus would be the lack of monthly payments on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigE_mustang
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 6, 2006 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is amazing and for many reasons.... one that i think is overlooked when lookin at pc 
 games is its playablity on low end systems. I play it on my beast and run everything on high and 
 it looks AMAZING.... but also when i have a friend over he plays on my old dell which is nothing 
 special and was purchased as a upper mid range system in 2001 and it runs just fine on that......... now 
 back to the real reason you are reading this just do yourself a favor and buy the game it will 
 ruin your life for the first month because all you will do is play this game but its worth it.
 
  
  P. S i have spent 150ish hours on this and my friend has spent almost 500 so you will get your moneys 
 worth:) If i could give it a 20 on value i would 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devansthedude
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 5, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Good game, but theres something missing that i cant quite put my finger on. Dont know how it fell 
 under a MMORPG though. The one good thing about the game is beating quests and missions with friends. 
 The game is very tactful & has a complicated combat system. The one thing I didn't like was quests 
 get very boring & repeatitive. Also it gets very boring killing the same enemies again after you 
 enter a town or change area. Overall a alright game worth while getting if your a fan of PVP & 
 okay as a RPG not so much a MMORG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BurgerBuster
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best MMORPG in the world except for maybe WoW but WoW is not free!!!! Man i would 
 kill for this game if i didnt have it. IT ROCKS UR WORLD. Everything about is sooooooooooo good. 
 And its FREEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE!!!!! Thank you so much Arena Net for giving us this gift from 
 above. O and one last thing, its so long that youll be playing forever and ever. OMG its so great. 
 IF i could play this game every second of my life i would. And if you guys wanna help with guild 
 wars my name is: Mighty Man Of Steel !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Turnzy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 5, 2006 6:51 am PT
Review:  I have to say, that I am surprised with this game. At first when I played on it at my friends I 
 couldnt get used to it or even like it but now I love it. Im hardlys ever off it.
  
  The gameplay is brilliant. You get peace and quiet when you're in a quest unless you choose to 
 join a party and have travelling companions. And if you don't have any friends then you can just 
 hire henchmen who follow you and don't wander off. It has a great storyline, quite unpredictable, 
 and many side quests for the professions that you choose to be. 
  
  The graphics are great for a pc game, cant compete with Xbox 360, but they are still good. You 
 can still see some of the pixels but not that many to not enjoy the game, although when you enter 
 a town in midday or something it usually lags out because of too many people. 
  
  The sound is really good, however is quite repetitive with spell sounds and what-not. 
  
  Great 
 value, only 35 pound, and no online gaming charge. What more could you ask for?
  
  I recomend this game to anyone as it is possibly the best pc game to date.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elurion
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 5, 2006 3:55 am PT
Review:  The one thing that bothered me while i was writing this review was the time spent playing limit, 
 i mean HOW can you put a time spent playing limit on a MMORPG. Anyway, this is an excellent game 
 (that's the short version) . The first time i entered my guild wars account i was stunned, at first 
 i saw the excellent character customization, the options are endless and there are about a thousand 
 or more different combinations of faces, hair, and more.
  The armor design was excellent and the weapons were also beautifully designed. Then i actually 
 entered the game, the graphics were beautiful and the environment stunning. The first thing i saw 
 were four mesmer's dancing at the same time. THEN i learned the awesome fact about Guild Wars... the 
 command's... ;) . To continue, The learning curve of the game is not long, but to actually learn 
 what attributes to chose to get a strong character is a bit longer. The world is huge and full 
 of surprises, you can play it the whole day or just one or two hours. The bad thing is the character 
 creation limit, although 4 characters is a blessing, you can't try out all of the profession's 
 without deleting 2 characters. You can use sword or axe hilt's and much much more to upgrade your 
 weapons, and rune's to upgrade your armor. The encounter's are great and the choice of skills in 
 incomprehensible. If you can i greatly suggest you try the game at all costs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7_armageddon_7
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 4, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars seemed just like another one of those subscription based MMORPGs... except there was 
 no subscription fee. Hmm... interesting... And then my friend bought it. It turns out he loved 
 it (he has now played over 1000 hours on it) . So I decided to try it out. Wow. All I can say is 
 "wow". Guild Wars has been the game I played the most hours on. It's really fun! 
  
  When I first logged on in Pre-Searing Ascalon, I thought the world was pretty big. And that part 
 was only meant to last a few hours. But then (sorry for spoilers) , in post-searing Ascalon, the 
 world was even huger! And it kept on getting bigger and bigger as I explored it ( I still havent 
 been everywhere nor done every quest, which is next to imossible) . The sheer amount of things to 
 do is incredible. First, theres the gigantic world to explore. Then there are the missions, and 
 quests to complete. Then there's the Underworld and Fissure. After that, there are all the professions 
 to try out. Add to that unlocking nearly 300 skills and you've got yourself 100s of hours of gameplay. 
 But that isn't it... There's the whole PvP aspect to it too. Random arenas, Hall of Heroes, Guild 
 vs Guild. All that is unlimited amounts of gameplay!
  
  The quality of graphics and sound is one the best found in all MMORPGs and the surprising thing 
 is that the game runs nearly perfect on a wide variety of systems. The environments each have their 
 own artistic touch to them. A great amount of detail is found all around from the cloud patterns 
 in the sky to the plants and trees and rocks and ruins on land. Character animations are also accurate 
 and look correct.
  
  Overall, this game is probably the best I've played, definitely one of the top games ever made. 
 If you like an innovative, not to mention addictive gameplay, that lasts for a very, very long 
 time (long lasting bliss) , that tests your intelligence and requires split-second timing (skill) , 
 then this is the game for you. It was built for true gamers. Meant for true gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sylenn_
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 4, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  After playing World Of Warcraft I though that there was a chance in a million to appear a game 
 that could even come close to what WoW meant.
  
  Guild Wars is simply one of the best MMORPG that was ever released in the game industry. It has 
 just about anything that you will enjoy in a game of this genre.
  
  You start in Ascalon as a soon to come war envolved warrior. You can choose from several classes: 
 Elementalist, Necromance, Mesmer, Monk, Warrior and Ranger. Each as its strong points and its downs 
 as it is usual in these kind of games. You will also have the possibility of choosing a second 
 class from each of this, altough that second class wont receive all of the possible magics or a 
 special attribute. With you're class you receive magics which you will use to defeat all the monsters 
 you see in Ascalon. There are 20 levels and each of it gives you new skill points which you spend 
 in attributes and buying new skills.
  
  One of the best things in GW is the Story it represents. Altough its not one of the Storys you 
 have seen it gives you the feeling of fighting for a cause and not simply being one mercenary in 
 the game which has no background or evolution, becoming a complete shallow character. In GW you 
 are actually part of something greater then you and in which you may or may not be usefull.
  
  The graphics are divided into two categorys. The characters and the Backgrounds. I have never 
 seen a better character graphics in a character in this genre. They simply have all the details 
 in armor and body you would see in real life.
  About the backgrounds altough they are reasonable altough they are actually poor in some aspects, 
 like details and fillment.
  The sound is also reasonable altough dont expect many wonder musics or heart-breaking environment 
 sounds.
  
  The game is separated into two diferent aspects. Roleplay Game and PvP.
  In Roleplay you take the demand of a character and you only contact with other players in outposts 
 or if you incorporate them into you're party and take on the quests, which are many. In PvP you 
 can take an already made character or make one and choose from a variety of top armors to fight 
 4 on 4 or even 16 on 16 agains each other and fight for faction, which will allow you to buy weapon 
 upgrades, runes or unlock skills for each character type.
  
  Also there is the Guild aspect in which you can make tons of new friends, and compete among other 
 guilds.
  
  The game is in all superb altough it does not surpass some minor bugs, which dont take almost nothing 
 from the game experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roku33
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 2, 2006 7:54 pm PT
Review:  This is very adictive game and it is nice that is is online also is is very cool that they are 
 coming out with guild wars factions. There are too many warriors in this game and they need to 
 make diff toons such as more monks. I think things are too exspensive like Bulwark is 100k i mean 
 come on i have a life and i will never have that much money. I give this game the score that i 
 did because this is the best free online game i have ever played. I thank you for your time and 
 buy this game because it is outstanding and really really fun. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RackaDoo
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 2, 2006 6:12 am PT
Review:  The thing that surprised me most is how innovative this game is, which is one of it's greatest 
 strengths apart from the detailed graphics and orchestral music (like Howard Shore, Hans Zimmer 
 or John Williams) . Innovative because it's so different from Diablo 2 - the best RPG game yet
 
  
  You may choose one of five primary professions and one as secondary: Warrior, mesmer (think of 
 it as a priest in WC3) , elementalist (mage of the 5 elements) , ranger and necromancer. 
  
  As you reach higher levels you exponentially gain attribute points which you may distribute them 
 to your attribute , for instance strength, axe mastery, sword mastery, hammer mastery and tactics 
 for the warrior. If you don't like your character later on, you may redistribute the points. Unlike 
 D2 the max. level is 20.
  
  If you want to get better armors, you'll have to find and collect such iron ingots and go to the 
 armor trade and tell him to craft your armor. You'll give him the ingots and he'll give the armor 
 he'd be giving to you. 
  
  Now there's the Player vs. Player or Guild vs. Guild modes, where you may play against other players. 
 Here you can compare your character with those of others, or just have fun with friends.
  
  I've already played this game for 21 hours, and I'm still in the beginning of the game and in a 
 small spot of the map. I can't wait to explore the rest of the world, which is 5 times bigger than 
 the small part I've been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_golf_dude
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 1, 2006 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Wow. 
  
  Not. WoW. 
  
  Just. Wow.
  
  Screw World of Warcraft and all those other imitator MMORPG's, Guild Wars has it all.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
 
  
  One of the most in depth and strategic RPG games I've ever played. One of the most addicting things 
 I've ever seen save for Halo and it's multiplayer. Over break, I downloaded the client off of friends' 
 recommendations, and the game has just taken over my life. I spend a good five hours a day trying 
 to level up my character and progress him to the next area. I spend nights pouring over information 
 on skills and attributes seeing what would be the next great step for my character. 
  
  You can choose a single profession at the beginning, then later on choose a secondary. For my first 
 character, a simple campaign guy, I chose an Elementalist/Ranger. Still playing him, in fact. (My 
 GW's handle is Onyx Method) . There're a plethora of monsters and choices of battles, though when 
 you stay in an area for too long the battles become easy and repetitive (New Ascalon and the Devourers 
 [sounds like a good band name] ) . 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  For a mostly streaming game (if you download the client only) , the graphics and frame rate hold 
 up really well. Every now and then, especially in the populated towns, the engine starts to chug, 
 but that can't really be surprising, considering there can easily be a good 100+ people in a single 
 district. The characters are well animated, and the emotes are just fun. 
  
  SOUND: 
  
  Realistic noises. No silly one-liners that the characters will throw out during a move, which make 
 you want to strangle the little man. It's fluid, and the characters in the campaign are well acted, 
 and the actors put real emotion and feeling into their part. Well done.
  
  VALUE:
  
  Amazing. It's almost impossible to calculate how many hours this game'll give you. The single player 
 game is unbelievably dense and intricate, and will last you for days and days. And then when you're 
 done with that, the PvP aspect will still hold your attention for days more. Adding up to months. 
 Or more. I feel sorry for my friends who have lost relationships and grades to this monster called 
 Guild Wars. At least we aren't losing our wallets ot it either. Only one fee, (30 or 50 dollars, 
 depending whether you buy a serial # online or purchase the game in stores) and nothing more. World 
 of WarCrack can cost you much more than that over the time you play. GW is the much better deal.
 
  
  WARNING!! =  If you wish to have a social life and wish to experience interaction with people who's 
 actual names you know, please don't pick up this game. You have been cautioned. Don't say I didn't 
 warn you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hardcoreforever
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 30, 2006 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars in my opinion is a great game but not without its down sides.
  It on one hand offers solid and balanced pvp, but on the other hand the PVE elements are quite 
 linear. One example I can offer is: the game unfolds in missions (very much like party sized quests) . 
 This requires you to stand in an outpost untill you get an invite to a party. If you are a monk, 
 warrior, or orther popular class you won't be spending much time looking for a party.
  If however you find yourself playing one of the more unpopular classes like a Mezmer it will be 
 more chalanging to find groups. If you are looking for open ended pve this is not your game. But 
 if you are looking for a game with interesting and often fun pvp go for guildwars. I however stress 
 the shelf life of this game exists in the pvp content, and not the pve content of the game. However 
 both are enjoyable.
  
  In matter of fact if you so desire you don't even have to play the pve content.
  Instead just 
 bust into pvp. With every kill your party scores you will be collecting faction, which allows you 
 to unlock various skills, weapon upgrades and runes to better equip your pvp characters. PVP occurs 
 in three different styles. Which are: Random Arenas where players are grouped in random teams of 
 4 (4vs4) . Team areans which is a good start for higher level pvp. Here you can assemble teams of 
 4 people allowing you to construst or participate in an organized build (also 4v4) .
  Heroes Ascent, this is where teams of 8 players face off agains other teams of 8 with the end goal 
 being makeing it to the Hall of Heroes and winning there for as long as they can. This plays a 
 role in how players from different continents can access certain areas of the game. 
  
  Altough PVP in Heroes Ascent is the primere pvp for Guild Wars.
  Some players often have a hard 
 time finding a group. Most groups want rank 3+ players. However to new players feel this is like 
 a double standard, since to get in a group you need to be rank 3+, but not being able to get into 
 a group means it will be hard for them to even get fame at all (fame is required to get rank) . This 
 just means you will need friends and or a good guild to play pvp with. Or just alot of patientience.
 
  
  After all is said and done, guild wars is a very worthy rpg to spend your time on. I in fact logged 
 over 1200+ hours in this game. If that alone can't convince you to buy guild wars, you have no 
 business playing video games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathWraith1234
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 28, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  This is one game that you need to hurry and jump into if you haven't already. Having finally obtained 
 all I can content wise for one of my characters, I feel it is my duty to give this an excellent 
 score. For all it's worth, this could be one of the greatest RPG's since the classic days of DnD
 
  
  Gameplay: Ground breaking in many ways. This game starts you in Ascalon, a peaceful country that 
 is having a sort of cold war with the charr, a race of evil minotaur like creatures. You, and thousands 
 of other players, are selected to be the hero to end the Charr threat. This is where the story 
 brings you in at a nice slow pace. The exclusion of a tutorial is very well replaced with a happy 
 friendly countryside (even the catacombs from ashfords abbey aren't very scary or depressing.) 
 This area in the game is where you will learn your basic spells and abilities, while gaining a 
 few levels. It's basically designed to give you a good feel for how the games mechanics work, with 
 weak enemies, and no death penalty so as not to slap any newcomers in the face. After you complete 
 this area, the true game starts to develop, as something known as "the searing" basically kills 
 everyone in Ascalon. Those charr bastards... Anyway two years go by and you are now in a ruined 
 wasteland that was once ascalon. You will get some better armor and things here, and set of to 
 end the charr and everything else bad in the game world, which is amazingly huge. I frequently 
 will still hear names of places I have never seen until I get there. The skills system works nicely 
 as well. Your character is given 8 skills to pick from the one's he gets throughout the storyline. 
 This may seem limiting, but it really forces you to think about it and strategize for different 
 situations. Also this game, PVP or not, is very team based. Almost every quest after the pre searing 
 ascalon requires a group, simply because they are too hard alone. There are henchmen in each town 
 for you to get, but they usually suck. One of the faults with this system is that in the later 
 levels you will need a party who is really skilled, as the missions get really hard by the end. 
 This can be frustrating, as many people in this game, for lack of better terms, are retarded. Eventually 
 you will however find a party you work well with and beat the missions. Overall not perfect in 
 Gameplay, though very close.
  
  Graphics: Graphics in this game look very nice, even on my crappy 5 year old computer. It may disappoint 
 some since it doesn't offer a huge array of options for graphics, but it already looks nice at 
 base levels so it doesn't really need sliders. One of the things that bothered me and made me give 
 it a 9 was the clarity of distant objects. Even at full settings, the object will turn into 2D 
 blurry photos worthy of nothing above the N64. Thats not even really really far off objects you 
 cant really see anyway. Sometimes it's a tree only 40 feet away, or it's the wall of Ascalon in 
 the distance, which would be fine if it weren't so huge and noticeable. Overall though this is 
 very solid graphics wise.
  
  Sound: I haven't once experienced a glitch in this system yet. Their are tons of sounds and tons 
 of orchestral songs that play at just the right times to immerse you into the moment. Very solid.
 
  
  Value: Huge game. 50 bucks. No monthly fee. Awesome.
  
  Tilt: If you aren't already playing this game, give me your name, address, and phone number so 
 I can come over and punch you in the face for being stupid. Go play it already!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limewolf
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 28, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  This is a truely great game! The graphics are stunning, sound track is excellent and the game play 
 is great. I'd recommend looking at the screenshots out there (check here on gamespot) to see how 
 nice the graphics are.
  
  I can find very few faults with this game, I recommend anyone try it, no monthly fee makes the 
 only online rpg I've really bothered to play, if i don't have the time one month, i'm not worried 
 by the fact that that moneths fee has gone to waste. 
  
  Highly recommended! If you like any type of rpg game it's a must!
  
  I'd also be on the look 
 out for Guild Wars: Factions, released this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathmaster9000
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 2, 2006 1:13 am PT
Review:  To start off with, the differences between Guild Wars and a more traditional on-line RPG's, such 
 as EverQuest and World of Warcraft is that not only does guild wars have no monthly fee, but it 
 is like you gather friends get on a server, and play multi-player quests.
  
  The other unique difference that guild wars has vs other games is the fact that the characters 
 top out at level 20, so no god like characters that are superior to the rest just because of level. 
 
  
  This game is more based of skill. With many skills and spells for the two classes you pick for 
 your character, you can only have 8 equipted skills or spells at a time. Those 8 skills now have 
 to be planned out in a Strategy. The strategy is in selecting the right skills to have on hand 
 as part of those 8 you can have, and combining them intelligently with the rest of your party.
 
  
  As far as the gameplay goes, guild wars is up there with the best. From
  Amazing Graphics, to the Story Line, to the Player vs player and guild vs guild, guild wars is 
 a true success unlike any other.
  
  As far as guilds go, a guild is set up alot like a union here on Game Spot. You have your leader, 
 your officers, and your members. These guild can be guilds that form parties and do quests, or 
 even guilds that choose to enjoy the player vs player and guild vs guild options in the game. Either 
 way a guild is a fun experience and is well worth joining one.
  
  Now onto the Replay value,
  While there are 25 story-based missions in the first Chapter of Guild 
 Wars, it is heavily geared towards player vs player and guild vs guild. 
  
  "Only 25 missions, that doesn't seem like alot so is it worth it?"
  
  The answer is "Yes". 
 While there may only be 25 missions, there are still thousands of quests, and more updates being 
 added daily. Just one look at the map will show you how big the game is. So there is a very good 
 chance that you will want to play it again and again and again.
  
  The professions of guild wars, You may have 4 characters, and each of these characters can have 
 a primary Profession, and a Secondary Profession. These are the professions offered in guild wars:
 
  
 Warrior, Elementalist, Monk, Ranger, Mesmer, or Necromancer. Each profession has its own strengths 
 and characteristics, a weapon or magic specialty, and a unique set of skills with which to deal 
 damage, manipulate the enemy or environment, or protect and heal allies. Each profession provides 
 a set of attributes which determines the effectiveness of weapons and skills in battle." ~ Guild 
 Wars Personnel
  
  As far as the Storyline goes,
  It has a great story line, with unexpected twists. And is based around the History of Tyria.
 
  
  And last but not least, on to the music in guild wars.
  It has great music, adding to the in-depth experience of the game.
  
  So overall, with a 9.8 
 rating from me, this is a great game to own. 
  Very addictive and the difficulty just right, great replay value, graphics, Gameplay, and sound, 
 it is truly a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucky2492
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Guild wars is a game were all apects are perfectly balanced. Player versus Enemy (PvE) is fun and 
 looks great, with diffrent animations for diffrent skills and spells baced on class and the actual 
 swing of the sword or waving of the wand has many animations tied to them. No grindin is necessary 
 in Guild Wars, since there ar emany missions ranging from experience awards of 100 to 4,000. 
 
  
  Player versus Player (PvP) battles are also a fun experience. You have the option of creating a 
 top level character or using your character from the campaign. Wining battles awards faction points, 
 which in turn can be used to by upgrades and items for your pvp characters. There are arenas scattered 
 throught the continent as well as the three tournaments which lead to The Hall Of Heroes, which 
 is a grand tournament so prestigous every win is announced over the chat system to everyone playing. 
 There is alos a tutorial for people new to player versus player battles.
  
  One of the things that makes Guild Wars great is the doubl class system. A character in the campaign 
 chooses a class (warrior, mesmer, elementalist, ranger, necromancer, monk) at the start, along 
 with gender, appearence, height, and color of clothing. After completing a missions to give you 
 a taste of the other proffesians you can choose one to be a secondary class. Armor you can buy 
 is based on the primary class and all classes have a skill you can only put points into if it is 
 your primary, but the abilities and spells of the secondary class can greatly compliment those 
 of your primary class. For instance, a primary warrior and secondary monk is a gresat combination 
 because the warrior, a 'tank' class, and the monk a. k. a. the healer, combined make a fighter that 
 is very hard to take down. 
  
  The graphics of this game are very good and I rarely hear complaints of lagging. the diffuculty 
 is not that bad and there is not a steep learnig curve. The sound effects are very good and there 
 is a wide variety of sounds for everything from footsteps to the roar of a 3 headed hydra in the 
 mountains. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: legoloco
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 26, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  This is an awsome game! It is very very addicting and when you beat the game there is still much 
 to do. You can go back and do side quests you missed. People may think this game is dull because 
 the highest lvl is 20. WELL IT'S NOT! It is very easy to learn and it has one thing not a lot of 
 MMOs have. A STORY LINE!!!!!!! This is like your favorite RPG with a COMMUNITY! The community is 
 great, even with this long game there are always people where you are looking to do the mission. 
 You will also find that it is EASY to find a group. If by some reason you can't find people then 
 you can recruit some henchmen, NPCs to help you with missions. It has no monthly fee and if your 
 an MMO fan then this is the game for you. Now grab your weapons and get ur butt to Ascalon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shumatsusamurai
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 26, 2006 6:17 am PT
Review:  Last summer I was considering buying a game like World of Warcraft. I knew people that played it, 
 I could just about afford the monthly fees, but something held me back. The graphics were not quite 
 my thing, but I didn't like the sound of the level grind, the huge advantage that the rich had 
 over other players, and other factors. Then I came across Guild Wars. At first I was unsure whether 
 it would be what I wanted - complaints were made about the lack of "interaction" with the environment. 
 But buying it was the best decision I ever made.
  
  The first thing about Guild Wars is that it is EXTREMELY fair. It is not possible to have a large 
 advantage over your fellow players just by virtue of having lots of money. The only thing money 
 gets you are negligibly better bonuses or better aesthetics. Not only can you get maximum armour 
 for a good price, as well as good weapons by simply collecting certain items that can be easily 
 bought or found, but for PvP games (including guild matches) you can make a character with first-rate 
 weapons and armour. Skills can either be learnt through completing quests, capturing them from 
 monsters, or earning "faction" through PvP games and using it at a skill trainer. Faction can also 
 be used to unlock better weapon upgrades for a PvP character.
  
  Another great thing is that there is NO LEVEL GRIND. The level cap is 20, which developers have 
 said will stay. You can reach it easily by simply completing the Guild Wars PvE campaign. By doing 
 this you will also make more than enough gold to buy those decent items I mentioned previously. 
 The campaign is great fun to play through and is a lot more coherent than anything in World of 
 Warcraft.
  
  The graphics are excellent and can often leave you breathless. Sound is also of high quality - 
 additional music can be downloaded free or purchased for a small fee from the producers. Updating 
 is extremely easy, as Guild Wars' streaming technology allows you to download content automatically 
 when you need it, rather than search for large updates on the web (and then wait when the servers 
 get overloaded) . From time-to-time, free updates are released for increased gameplay (such as new 
 areas to explore) but there are much more regular updates to deal with bugs, exploits and balancing 
 issues.
  
  There are also many multiplayer options. You can play in a team of eight friends to try to take 
 control of the Hall of Heroes, pitting you against other teams in many different rounds of combat 
 - some requiring you to simply kill the others, some to use strategy to achieve an objective. If 
 you control the Hall for your world region, it allows them to travel to special areas where they 
 can collect extremely rare items and fight devious monsters. But you are also rewarded with great 
 items after the final battle for all your hard work. Or you can join a guild and fight your way 
 up the ladder - perhaps you could compete in the World Championships!
  
  For those that have a little more money, every six months from Q2 of 2006, they will be able to 
 purchase a brand new campaign for Guild Wars - "Factions". This can be added to your original GW 
 account, or installed as a stand-alone. If you pick the former option, you will be able to transfer 
 characters between the two campaigns. The latter will give you more slots to create new characters. 
 The new campaigns will have more quests, missions and new co-operative gameplay, allowing you to 
 unlock new PvE areas by winning PvP battles. A third campaign has been announced for the end of 
 2006.
  
  All in all this is an excellent game to play. If you purchase Guild Wars now there is no way that 
 you will be able to exhaust all of the content before Factions is released. From then on players 
 will be constantly entertained with the new campaigns released twice a year.
  
  The future of online gaming has been changed forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ancoulon
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 25, 2006 9:59 pm PT
Review:  yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
  yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
  yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
  yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
  yes yes yes 
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
  yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
  yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
  yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
  yes yes yes 
 yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
  yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
  U MUST BUY THIS AWSOME  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ziggy56
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 25, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  well i'm not saying its a bad game its just, i was hoping for a game were you know you walk in 
 this huge world with people who live miles away from you and kill people and monsters and stuff 
 like everquest. well thats not what its like at all. there are towns you can go to and meet people 
 but besides that there is no one in the world, just NPC's you can talk to unless you form a party. 
 a party is 1 other person that joins you in the world. the wepeon gathering that you do when you 
 kill people doesn't matter because you have to make a completely different person for Player vs 
 player and you have start out at the highest level which eleminates comptition factor so its pretty 
 much just 4v4 in a ring and whoever hits first wins. thats just my opinion but there is a bright 
 side, the graphics are fantastic and i don't have the best computer so i got the give the develpers 
 of guild wars props for that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEARRE4HL2H2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 24, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  tahts right my friend, a MMO game that is finally free! you no longer need to cower in fear of 
 paying 120+ dollars a year to play a game! ALSO!!
  IT DOESNT SUCK!!!!
  
  Graphics: 10
  Great, spectacular lighting effects, armor moves, just great. Nothing more to say. The only bad 
 things, is when my guy dances, i might like to see his eyes close... a minor complaint though.
 
  
  Sound: 9
  I love the effects...
  
  Value: 10
  40$ for this!???
  Hells YEAH
  
  RT 10
  nothing more to say
  
  Gameplay: 9
  find yourself an active guild, some PvP 
 partners, your perfect class, mabye get your friends into it, and ur set to go. The only bad thing 
 is quests get boring after awhile, like ur 3rd time through.
  
  Buy?
  YES!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bahamut50
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 24, 2006 7:00 pm PT
Review:  i believe if people get worked up and call this a fake mmorpg they wont understand the whole fun 
 of this game. it indeed has a large community you can play with. but if the definition of mmorpg 
 is to get killed by another devious player and lose all your work, i refuse to listen to your bothersome 
 arguments. on to the review
  
  1. the gameplay is great fun. you just cant go wrong with some of the more hectic fights in this 
 game, were everyone is working just to keep alive. when the difficulty kicks in, you definetly get 
 a ride worth your money. how little money that is of course :)
  
  2. the graphics are amazing if you consider the low reqs this game needs. it runs smooth, especially 
 considering the online nature of this game. if anything its definetly ahead of the competition in 
 terms of compatability with most computers.
  
  3. although in my opinion the only sound i really listen for in a game is voice acting and music, 
 i still like all of it in this game. i may sound like a fanboy giving "due" credit to a game, but 
 it really does have an epic feel to its music and its battles
  
  4. this game should be considered a huge value with its removal of the monthly fee system and its 
 innate depth. you just cant argue with the facts. there is no way this game isnt showing what can 
 be done about fees.
  
  5. in my personal opinion, if your reading this review, take in mind you have to be a guy who doesnt 
 mind lobby style grouping and eight player teams. if you do like this, it just basically all clicks, 
 and this review will definetly give you an insight on your purchase. but dont just take my word 
 for it. look at the praise it gets and decide how you take my review. thank you for listening 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BR0M
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 22, 2006 7:53 pm PT
Review:  It doesn't get much nicer than this. With a seemingly huge world and tons of character customization, 
 just a few friends and you will be addicted forever! It is like PSO except a whole lot less expensive. 
 The graphics are top notch and the gameplay works great with it. The sounds are good with good 
 music and the game is all round high quality. The addictive character building keeps begging me 
 to come back and I quickly oblige. I just need to find a couple buddies at school who have this 
 game and I will be as entertained as I was when I was playing Halo 2. It is really that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elementkid177
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 22, 2006 6:43 pm PT
Review:  this game is awsome It has sum unbelivble graphics for a RPG game the story i think is pretty kewl 
 and just the variety u get ouit of this game is just amazing this game is the full package. And 
 another kewl thing is u dnt have to pay monthly. I used to play everquest an i liked the game but 
 i hated those monthly fees. And guild wars its a game just as good or better and noo monthly fees. 
 What i like best of this game is even if u are nub u can learn quickly and feel left out! Also 
 right in the beggining of the game u get sum pretty kewl moves no matter what class you are and 
 this is good because u wont have to get to the middle of the game just for it to get exciting. 
 This game has a awsome quest mode i think this features a little of everything whether u wanna 
 fight in the forest a dungeon or the mountains this game has it all and like i said before u will 
 enjoy loking at the awsome scenery as u move from level to level i belive this is one of the ebst 
 gamesive ever played and all this talk is comin from a fps fan and i gave this game a chance and 
 i loved it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthijstol
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 22, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  This game is the best MMORPG I have ever played. The graphics are superb when you put everything 
 on max, and there is absolutely no lag at all when you play unlike other MMORPG. There are six 
 classes available from which you can choose:  and Necromancer. 
 You choose one of those as your primary profession and soon after you choose another as your second 
 profession. That sounds strange but works really well in the game. I have an Elemental / Necromancer 
 and the ideal thing is that I destroy enemies with my elemental skills and than summon them back 
 using my necromancer skills. The concept is new but very good and fits the game perfectly. There 
 are better MMORPGs available like World of Warcraft but for players that don't want monthly fees 
 like me than you definitely should play Guild Wars, and there's even an expansion coming this spring. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragN1
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 21, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Guild war's is one of my favorite mmorpgs ever and the free online makes it even better. If you 
 are new to mmorpgs then Guild Wars is a great game to start you off with that genre. The graphics 
 in this game are superb and the sound is nice too. The value in this game is awesome and I really 
 enjoyed the PvP in it. I made some awesome friends in Guild Wars and the option to make a guild 
 is wonderful. The story in this game is pretty good, and the way the fighting in the game is is 
 awesome. This game has a good amount of character creation setups and the length of the game is 
 pretty good. The AI isn't too bad in this game either. So all in all Guild Wars is one of the few 
 mmorpgs I have and is one of the best I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OverDosed1598
Rating: 5.2
Date: Feb 21, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  GuildWars is a epic MMORPG (Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing game) that puts you in the 
 shoes of 5 heroes to smite the world of evil.... pretty much it many people like others dont but 
 im both its great for a while then you stop then repeat. there is room for some replayiablity but 
 not much. The difficulty is one of the hardest ive ever seen in a game, spent some time playin it, 
 easy to learn 
  
  also the armys in this game are soo hard they massed them so unless your a high lvl its hard to 
 survive
  
  its almost but not quite 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mudflapjones
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 5:47 am PT
Review:  guild wars !! one of the best games of the year in my thought. this game is the best u have eneything 
 thought it would be action-role-playing. one the best u can sell and buy items and have rare idems 
 and thousands of gold. Can be a monk, ranger, memser, warrior, necromancer, elements that can weld 
 water, fire, earth, and wind and there are millons of skills u can get 
  
  YOU GOT TO GET THIS IS YOUR A FAN OF MMRG
  gold that u can get from meeny place
  skills like 
 thoundes apone million
  the coolest class to play
  and a great game over all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: C-ACE
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 19, 2006 7:32 pm PT
Review:  I've been following and playing MMO games for years now, and for the most part, they've essentially 
 been the same type of game. Take a long time grinding, doing "FedEx quests," and traveling; and 
 dealing with server downtime and bugs. Guild Wars has slickly sidestepped most of these issues 
 by being only partly an MMO. The cities and some far-flung locations act has hubs where players 
 can socialize, trade, buy gear, sell loot, and gather up into parties, but everything outside of 
 those relatively small zones is an instanced experience, where you either fly solo, with your four-person 
 party, or with game-controlled henchmen.
  
  While it's handy to be able to talk to people once you're outside of town, typically to get help 
 with quests, it's also very nice to not have to compete with an unpredictable number of people 
 for loot and quest-specific beasts and items. It's nice to not have to have eyes in the back of 
 your head for power levelers who have nothing better to do than run around and interfere with you 
 or assault you. For the most part, the frustration level is very low because of these design decisions, 
 even lower than it was many a time when I played World of Warcraft.
  
  But it's not all wine and roses. While Guild Wars is a beautiful game with an extensive story in 
 the non-PvP mode, easy transportation, and more exciting combat than we're used to in RPGs, there 
 are certain elements that suffer in comparison to WoW, its closest competitor. At the top of the 
 list, for me, is getting a party together, and here the user interface is at its weakest. Inviting 
 someone into your party who isn't close enough to be seen means manually typing their name in the 
 chat window. Since all characters have a first and last name, this can be a little tedious, especially 
 if you're racing to invite that person before someone else does.
  
  When LFG (Looking for Group) requests pop up in the general chat channel, there's no way to find 
 out what character class or level that person is, without seeing them in person -- and proper team 
 balance can mean the difference between getting through a tough quest on the first try and bashing 
 your head against the wall a half-dozen times. There will be quests where you have to have both 
 a strong melee fighter ("tank," in MMO parlance) and a healer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dikidkid
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2006 11:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is one that you'll play for a long time. For me it started out quite oddly. I had been 
 given a n account and downloaded the client off of the website. I was in an odd and strange place. 
 Guided by a close friend off mine I was quickly show the ropes and leared the game. TO this day 
 I've played 100hrs plus. 
  
  Why I did this is a good question. Because of several factors. First, while the story is weak, 
 the amount of rewards in this game can encourage you to keep playing. Also, because the level cap 
 is low you will strive to become the best.
  
  A major con to this game is the little amount of roleplaying content. It's not as in depth as world 
 of warcraft or other mmos. But the great thing about it is that it's FREE.
  
  So I conclude saying buy this game. Give it some time. You'll soon understand why i've enjoyed 
 this game so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vanderspeal
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Guild wars is the RPG I have been searching for. After buying countless games I have finally found 
 one I can get comfortable with. Amazing Graphics coupled with extensive quest and guild play makes 
 for a very satisfying experience. I also love how they are adding chapters. Its like you are adding 
 on to your already existing play-set not just buying a new game. You also get your own version of 
 the world to traverse with friends of course. I find this solves alot of problems right of the bat. I 
 personally think this game is worth every penny. The only people I have found that do not like this 
 game are world of war craft players that are bitter they are still paying those ridiculous fees. I 
 litteraly uninstalled my copy of world of war craft and now embrace free online play. With the money 
 I save I can buy the expansion packs. Let the adventure rage on my guild mates. The hall of heroes 
 is near!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HOMIE_G64
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 18, 2006 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is probably one of the best MMORPGs ever. The story is great, the gameplay is great, 
 and the price is great. This is probably the only good MMORPG that you will not need to pay monthly. 
 Great for your wallet. One of the things I do not like is the way you get your skills and items. 
 You must craft your armor from a craftsman and you cannot pick it up from the ground like other 
 RPGs. To get skills you MUST complete quests which take AT LEAST 30 minutes after you get into 
 the game. The highest level you can be is Level 20, which is pretty annoying. Getting people for 
 quests is also a pain and the demand for monks (who are the only ones can heal) is high and the 
 supply is Medium. Other than that it is a GREAT GAME. Buy it NOW if you love MMORPGs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YourOldFriend
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 17, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  There is a lot of sharply contrasting opinions on this game, as anyone who frequents the PC Games 
 forum will attest to, but it should be noted that this is an incredible game. I've been playing 
 it since Christmas (It's February now) and it's the only thing I'm playing, I love it so much. 
 Let me tell you why...
  
  Foremost, the gameplay is just amazing. The combat is fast-paced without being overwhelming, and 
 you will pick it up quite quickly. PvP areas are available from the beginning and PvE areas are 
 only an instance away (more on that later) . The character classes are Warrior, Ranger, Mesmer, 
 Monk, Necromancer, and Elementalist. One great thing is that you get to be two classes per character, 
 a primary and secondary, so your character is heavily customizable. Also, if you don't like your 
 build, you can change your secondary class later in the game. Good thinking on the devs part, they 
 didn't want any "broken" characters. Also, you can reassign all of your skill points at any time 
 when you are in a city, so you can change your build on-the-fly. 
  
  Both the RPG (story driven) and PvP (player versus player) parts of the game are very fun, but 
 if you like one and not the other, you can make a character dedicated to one, or a character than 
 does both. Items play some role in the game, but it is primarily skill based. As makes sense considering 
 the level 20 cap. This may sound iffy, but the system works out VERY well as the endgame really 
 promotes cooperation in the missions (that advance the story of the game) . It's nice to actually 
 be able to "beat" an MMO (or CORPG if you are a stickler) also through the missions. But don't 
 think you're done, there are high level areas to explore, the international tournament bracket, 
 more items to find, elite skills to capture and much more. 
  
  The graphics for this game are great, better than any other MMO's on the market today. They really 
 showcase bloom effects and have a wide variety of locales ranging from icy tundras to dense, tropical 
 forests. Also, the player and NPC models are exquisite, each very unique and nice to look at. 
 
  
  The sounds are good, they match what's going on. The background music at the beginning and the 
 effects all sound very good. I'd like to hear more of the background music, but that's very subjective 
 and most people tend to disagree with me. It sounds nice on my 5.1 and, from my experience on my 
 laptop once or twice, even sounds good on 2 speaker setups.
  
  Value-wise, this game will last you for quite some time. There is ALWAYS something more to do, 
 I barely scratched the surface. Although, this game probably won't last you as long as a full-blown 
 MMO like WoW or SW: Galaxies. But this won't be a problem because the sequel (that will connect 
 both the new and original lands) is scheduled to come out next month, so if you get GW now, you'll 
 beat it at the perfect time. This will keep your attention for a long time, just not quite as long 
 as some other games.
  
  Overall, I am enjoying the heck out of this game. I just can't put it down, especially if you find 
 a good, friendly guild. Guild battles are great fun and there's quite a bit of stuff to be done 
 by forming or joining a guild. I barely touched it, but you'll enjoy that a lot too I'm sure. This 
 game is quick to learn, but difficult to "master" the pvp elements, so you'll have a blast. Overall, 
 at least give this game a chance. If you like RPGs, friendly communities, and value skill over 
 time spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InSane_Snake
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 16, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is by far the best MMO to date, In my Opinion. This game is great. Let me start off 
 by saying, unlike other MMO games, there are no Monthly Fee's, which is great if you don't own 
 a credit card! This game plays like your standard MMO, but it just does so many things right. The 
 PvP option is well done and the RPG element is stunning. In the RPG side, you can pick a Main class 
 and a secondary class, these classes include Warriors, Monks Necromancers, etc. After you create 
 your character (you are allowed four) you are off to fight monsters, crawl dungeons, make friends, 
 and most importantly Have Fun!! This game can seem intimidating at times, but if you meet the right 
 people than you will have a blast. This is a great game, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShoKasaki
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 16, 2006 4:44 am PT
Review:  Section 1: The Overview
  -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
  Guild Wars is simply an amazing game. Developed by ex-Blizzard employees, they know what it takes 
 to make an RPG worth playing. The fact that it takes place online in a constant, ever-changing 
 world only makes it better. Anything can happen while you're offline, and the same could happen 
 while you're on the game.
  
  It also loads amazingly fast, given you're on a decent machine -- even with dial-up service, the 
 game downloads files and loads pretty quickly. Everything is pretty much done right, from the gameplay 
 to the graphics, which I'm about to delve into much more in detail just about now.
  ---------------------------------
  Section 2: The Graphics
  -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
  Even 
 set to the lowest setting, the graphics in this game are great. Just turn them down to the lowest 
 possible and see for yourself (if you can) . However, if you're able to play the game the way it 
 was meant to be played, the graphics and the sheer scale of the environments to the sparkle and 
 flash of the special effects will leave you grounded. I didn't expect the game to look as good 
 as it does. My first impression of it was through screenshots on a friend's page at 1up. com, and 
 the game looked awesome. However, once I experienced it on my own monitor, I was blown away. I'll 
 stop beating the bush, but I'll say it once more: the graphics in this game are a definite sight 
 to behold.
  ---------------------------------
  Section 3: The Gameplay
  -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
  This is another aspect that GW really shines on, but it also happens 
 to falter a bit, as well.
  
  The amazing thing about the gameplay is the amount of skill and strategy required to overcome any 
 given situation. What's sad is it takes massive amounts of skill and planning to defeat an IWAY 
 group for control of the Hall of Heroes -- yeah, MATH, I'm talking about you. Anyway...
  
  Teamwork is the name of the game, and you're duly rewarded for such. Mess up, and the consequences 
 could cost you dearly. You can also hire an NPC "henchman" to round out a group in case you're 
 missing anything.
  
  Character creation comes down to two things at first, a Roleplaying Character, or a PvP-Only (PvP 
 standing for "Player Vs. Player") Character. If you're new to the game, a Roleplaying Character 
 is the best first choice, as you can lead your created hero through the story and unlock items/skills 
 for use in PvP.
  
  When creating a character, you can choose from six "core" professions. I say, "core," because you'll 
 be required to select a secondary profession to "complement" your first, so choose what you wish 
 to be wisely. The professions are this:
  
  Warrior
  Ranger
  Necromancer
  Elementalist
  Mesmer
  Monk
  
  For sake of trying to make this review shorter, I'll skip 
 the character introductions -- but you should be able to make due with the information there and 
 realize what they do. The game also has handy descriptions of each class.
  
  Anyway -- playing as a Roleplaying Character, you take quests from various NPC's and participate 
 in "story-missions." Basically they're "levels" you have to beat in order to progress through the 
 storyline.
  
  All of this is fun and dandy, and the quests are fun to play when you find a decent group, but 
 that's one area the gameplay falls a little flat -- if you can't find a group, the huge, vibrant 
 world can really feel -huge-, vibrant -- and very, very lonely. And if you're looking for a roleplaying 
 (in-character) experience, you'll be pretty hard pressed to find any actual roleplayers, as much 
 of this game contains a lot of OoC (Out-of-Character) banter and bartering. Another thing that 
 could jar you out of the "roleplaying" experience is the fact you may see "Your Math Teacher has 
 won a battle in the Hall of Heroes and keeps the favor of the Gods for America!" -- so yeah, the 
 immersiveness of the game gets pretty botched.
  
  Skills are where most of your firepower lie in this game, and they are a core aspect to any good 
 strategy. Talk with your party members to figure out which skills you may need for any particular 
 task -- you may want to kill people or enemies out-right, but you should see if you could "complement" 
 an allies skills. The fact you can only bring eight (8) at a time makes things even more constricting 
 and you'll need to strategize well in order to succeed.
  
  Bringing the gameplay back to a sour-spot, I really wish this game could have been a little bit 
 more..."MMO-ish." If you're not in a guild, or even in a group of friends to play, the game world 
 can get barren and lonely -- there's nothing for you to do on your own except for complete quests 
 and do missions, but both are best done with human players. You can't go off on your own while 
 waiting for other people to do things like fishing or crafting -- you can only fight, fight, fight. 
 Or farm, but that's only if you're a gold-hound.
  
  (Sorry if I keep mentioning you, MATH -- you need new material, but I'll keep to your little IWAY 
 game... seems to be the only HoH build that works...)
  ---------------------------------
  Section 4: Wrap-Up
  -=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-
  In order to wrap-up this review, I need to stop now 
 or I could end up going on forever and ever.
  
  Overall, this game is solidly developed. It plays great, looks great, and can be ultimately the 
 only RPG you need -- but only if you're in an active guild/have friends to play with. Other than 
 that, I have NOTHING bad to say about this game -- at all.
  
  Oh yeah, and I failed to mention one thing:
  
  NO MONTHLY FEES! Chyea, buddy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paulthespartan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 15, 2006 4:17 pm PT
Review:  when my brother first got this game, i thought it would be tons and tons of fun, and lots of things 
 to do, but i was wrong.
  
  when the second i played it, it was lots of fun, but then, after a month, the fun just seemed to 
 die, and the online gameplay was poorley done,, yet the only highlight of this game were the graphics, 
 nothing much else.
  
  and the quests were pretty fun, but the running around everywhere just was very annoying, the battles 
 were also fun, but all the fun in everything in this game just died.
  
  i would not recommend this game as a buyer, but i would say you should, and see what you think 
 of the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanxixamx99
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 15, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  1. Great graphics (but I was more concentrated on the combat to pay that much attention to them)
 
  
  2. One of the few RPGs I've played where victory is achieved through strategy and skill other than 
 just statistics
  
  3. No Fees. So now if you got a poor friend who stuck to playing Runescape then just hook him up 
 with this
  
  4. best PKing I have ever experienced
  
  5. Really addictive, you can't help but spend hours trying to get the best armor and weapons, selling 
 everything you find for more cash, and just exploring
  
  Cons:
  1. If youd don't have a party with you in the actual world or while doing a mission, the game can 
 feel kind of empty and lonely
  
  2. Theres no way to find someone who wants to trade with you other than typing something like "im 
 by the henchies" WTF!
  
  3. salvaging items and obtaining items isnt very deep because you'll only use them for armor (which 
 you can't just buy!) or selling, but they arent even worth that much
  
  4. Leveling up isnt very deep, basically u go fight monsters, get xp, lvl up. Too bad there isnt 
 other things you can level up like item crafting abilities or weapon crafting abilities like Wow 
 or (yes im gonna say it) Runescape
  
  5. Some people on your team in random PvP frankly suck and aren stupid and will just ruin things 
 for your whole team
  
  Conclusion:
  I love the game, and I still play it today. The only thing that people who dont play this game 
 make fun of more than anything is the lvl cap, which is only lvl 20. The truth is that lvl 20 isnt 
 the end, its the beginning! You'll probably reach lvl 20 in about a month, but you won't be a powerhouse, 
 real combat effectiveness comes from skills, which you get from completing quests. SO DO THOSE 
 QUESTS! THEY'RE WORTH IT!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkyBluNightWolf
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 14, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Well is went out and said i havnt really ever played any computer game except pinball. So i went 
 to gamestop and picked this one up because it was cheap and no monthly fee. I take it home and 
 my computer of course is not good enough to run it. Well i take that back i can run it but it is 
 very laggy and that takes away from all the fun of the game. All i can really do is is sit and 
 chat with people. I hate it that all computer games need thousands of dollars and the blood of 
 a virgin to make your pc good enough to run it.  
 I have friends that play it and i played it there and it was pretty good. It looks like there are 
 like five different kinds of characters to choose from. Nice graphics and sometimes it is fun just 
 sitting there and chatting and trading goods. You also can join guilds and hook up almost in a 
 clan. Well this is a good game bu it looks like i better just stick with console games and nit 
 try pc anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HuegoZZ
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 4, 2006 10:44 am PT
Review:  I. Summary
  
  As a former player of Final Fantasy XI (FF XI) , Lineage II, and World of Warcraft (WoW) , Ive been 
 exposed to several different kinds of fantasy MMORPGs each with their own style of graphics, stories 
 and gameplay. By far, WoW out-does both the former games as far as quality of gameplay and content. 
 Fortunately and unfortunately, NCsoft/ArenaNet's Guild Wars rises above Square Enix's FF XI and 
 NCsoft's Lineage II but falls under the shadow of Blizzard's WoW. Consequently, Guild Wars ends 
 up as a decent fantasy MMORPG.
  
  Guild Wars can be played as a regular or multiplayer RPG. But, Guild Wars main feature is the 
 PvP combat (want proof? check out its website) .
  
  II. Pros
  
  1. No monthly fee!
  
  2. No monthly fee!
  
  3. Stunning graphics and accompanying soundtrack that sets the perfect 
 mood.
  
  4. Awesome jobs and job combo possibilities.
  
  5. Unique gameplay by way of limited power use. Players can only select up to 8 powers at one time.
 
  
  6. PvP combat for the die-hard fans.
  
  7. No need to worry about raising those crafting skillsthere are none in Guild Wars!
  
  8. 
 Instant travelling as well as In-game directions to quest locations. This helps make quests go 
 smoothly and adequately speeds up the games pace. Travelling from one city to another is as easy 
 as clicking on where you want to go on the map.
  
  9. Instancing keeps the weirdos at bay.
  
  10. Ability to select NPCs as members of party to 
 help with quests.
  
  11. Perfect place to start for MMORPG newcomers. Guild Wars has ingredients from FF XI, Lineage 
 II and WoW with added flavor of its own.
  
  12. No monthly fee, which makes Guild Wars the back-up MMO to play when funds are low and that 
 other account has been deactivated until further notice.
  
  III. Cons
  
  1. The quests seem more like chores than anything else, the usual go there, get that and bring 
 it back or talk to so-and-so and report back. Its the same old donkey, beaten to death.
  
  2. Although the character creation is decent, all the players look similar. For the record, 
 this is no different than FF XI and Lineage II. On top of that, player names are hidden, until 
 you click on or move the cursor over them.
  
  3. You could play for hours without even noticing an invite or private message that was sent. It 
 would be nice if the color of chat texts varied more or if sounds were added.
  
  4. The emotes and dancing are coolNOT!
  
  5. The character movement is restricted similar 
 to FF XI and Lineage II where the character can only move back, forth and side-to-side. Also similar 
 is the fact that the player cannot fall from a cliff or sometimes walk outside a path due to the 
 invisible game boundaries. Plus, bumping into NPCs or objects looks like bumper cars colliding! 
 The movement is very unrealistic and cheapens the quality.
  
  6. The unique gameplay by way of limited power use gets old and frustrating after a while. The 
 frustration kicks in when, in midst of a battle, you realize that you shouldve brought x power 
 with you instead the one you got stuck with. This would be a result of poor planning, in most cases. 
 Therefore, careful study of powers and enemy weaknesses is required. Still, why should I be prevented 
 from using a skill whenever I want? (other than just to make the gameplay a bit different or make 
 it more like a card game?)
  
  7. PvP combat for the I could care less crowd. Since PvP is the main feature in Guild Wars, players 
 who dont enjoy it will basically miss most of the game.
  
  8. No crafting for players who enjoy crafting.
  
  9. Instancing can be a lonely and boring 
 experience.
  
  IV. Quick Tip
  
  *****Warning!*****The following tip contains spoilers!*****
  
  Try to hold on to as much salvageable 
 and crafting items and dyes as possible. The place where you start is only a beginning. In the 
 next part of the story, the world of Ascalon is in ruins. The above mentioned items become more 
 valuable and useful.
  
  V. Conclusion
  
  For the price of the game itself, you get a decent fantasy MMORPG without the hassle of any monthly 
 fee. Its a perfect beginning point for newcomers to the genre and a back-up for those who have 
 other deactivated MMO accounts or just want a change of scenery.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_True_Bim
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 13, 2006 12:49 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is an amazing game that matches and completely annihilates similar MMORPG's such as 
 WoW. After spending over 250 hours on the game in just 2 months, I'm pleased to say that I'm addicted 
 to GW.
  
  YOU SHOULD BE TO!!!
  
  I spent half an hour listing up a set of draw-backs and I found just a couple of minor issues with 
 the game:
  
  - Nothing.
  - Nothing.
  
  It's perfect! I'm thrilled to say that we can expect to see the sequal to GW - Guild Wars: Faction 
 - out some time this year and there will be a massive preview event out on the 24th March. So get 
 gaming and join us on this preview event.
  
  And heck! If FREE SUBSCRIPTIONS doesn't "turn you on" then nothing else will!!!
  
  P. S If your 
 looking for a Guild PM within the game :D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twinbladeace
Rating: 4.7
Date: Feb 12, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  GOD!!!!!!!! is there anything more twisted than waking up one day and saying- my my im going to 
 rip off wow ^_^ and make millions selling it to Koreans! 
  well thats what the boys at guild wars said anyway- its got decent graphics decent everything expert 
 it left a feeling in me when i played it (i prayed to Elune for hours to bless me again) i said 
 "wow that was over rated"... 
  i guess they made it for 12 year olds with no money but still i felt like it was about time some 
 one put that dog out of its misery but there are apparently fans because here comes an expansion 
 with a ripped of rouge!!! "oh my god" i am always amazed that they haven been sued for copy writing-wait- 
 so thats why you can only be human- sorry for the fans but if your willing to waste your money 
 on guild wars then god forbid you should pay that extra cash for the real deal but guild wars dose 
 have some fine points... what are they???? once again i apologise to the fans- we all have a right 
 to an opinion i suppose well thats my 2 cents oh well hope young guildies enjoy you expansion 
 and hopefully you will play wow like I tried guild wars before I wrote this review
  -twinbladeace of the azure flame-
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilplayer
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 12, 2006 7:16 am PT
Review:  this is the best role player online pc game i have ever played!!!!!!!!
  it was the one of the first game i've ever played and i must say the developers have done a brilliant 
 job, brilliant graphics and game play, it's just unbelieveable.
  through out the greats that i have played, eg black and white 1 and 2, devil may cry 1,2 and 3, 
 gothic 1 and 2 and age of mythology, warcraft and morrowind this definetly comes in the top 3. 
 it's an exciting game that most of you will love as soon as you start playing, i was on there nearly 
 4 hours a day playing it was that good.
  a must play, if u do not play this game you have not lived, this is bascically a modern game where 
 you can choose a charector, how they look, what profession they are, eg warrior/ranger or necromancer/elementist 
 and improve it to it's it's max, going around with other people helps the game a lot because you 
 make lots of friends and end up staying up just to talk to them!!!!! you can join guilds which 
 is really cool because all your friends can join and you can make your own guilds with capes and 
 desighn what the guilds are going to be like and everything. the graphics are some of the best 
 around, like the armour is just magnificent. can't wait untill guild wars 2 comes  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaostryder
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 11, 2006 11:14 pm PT
Review:  Guild wars is one of the best RPG's i've ever played. There is a huge replay value, because there 
 are numerous character classes to play, and the chance to complete team missions, along with multiplayer 
 batttles. The gameplay is really good, and the characters are each individually unique and fun 
 to play. The game is a great RPG and i would highly reconnmend this game to anyone. The sound is 
 really cool, along with all the great aspects of the game. The plot is pretty good, and there are 
 numerous twists in the plot, along with special items that you must work for and do special quests 
 to complete. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord_hall
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 11, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  This was one i had been waiting for, so i was extremely impressed when i turned out to be everything 
 i wanted.
  The sheer scale is a first intimidating, but once you get into the game it is enthralling. It is 
 luscious and fun.
  Although it may seem a little repetitive on some missions when you have dies for the 73rd time, 
 it manages to mitigate all the negative feeling by leading to better and nastier things.
  Maybe the best aspect of the game is its varying difficulty levels, you can happily potter along, 
 doing a mission here and a mission there, not stressing yourself. Or you can solo farm the Furnace 
 of Woe and find out how much it hurts to get taken out in 2.3 seconds.
  
  Buy it, for a free massive online game it rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quiksilver9563
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 11, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  this is one of my all time favorite games ever. i baught the game because it had amazing visuals 
 and great fighting, and great story line, plus when i picked it up i saw taht it was free i couldnt 
 belive it, then i got home and began playing it, it was very simple to install and making a character 
 was fun and simple, then when u play it is very easy to understand. and the main towns there are 
 alwasy people in them, so u will never be alone, they r very friendly and many would love to join 
 a party and just do quests for hours, its a great game, great every thing u must pick it up if 
 u like mmorpgs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heedoy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 10, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  very interesting way to play, it is not a full mmorpg yet it does have some interesting parts to 
 it, such as guilds and its pvp. It is also nice to see that it is not mostly based upon what weapons 
 and other items you contain rather based upon what kind of spells and how your character is set 
 up. It is interesting and is worth a look. And they are almost ready for an expansion coming so 
 it should be even better for those stuck at level 20, yet even then there are plenty of things 
 to do and see with the game of guild wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willdemers
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 15, 2006 11:18 am PT
Review:  This has been the most upsetting and disappointing buy for a long time. I put down a lot of money 
 to purchase this game only to find that it wasn't anything special. The reviews that it was getting 
 on different websites (including GameSpot) make it look incredible.
  
  Guilds. MMO. No Monthly Fee. What's the catch?
  
  Well the catch is this. The engine is rather 
 pathetic and the graphics aren't stunning. It had the feel of a free Korean MMORPG (that's the 
 best way I can describe it) . I played it for an hour and then wanted my money back.
  
  I honestly tried very hard to enjoy this game. I tried playing every possible class, and even tried 
 to give my characters a background story to help myself enjoy the game a bit more. Nothing worked 
 though.
  
  Though the map is fairly large, I found the storyline to be very dry and uninteresting. Furthermore, 
 I ran this game on a sturdy computer with great internet connection and yet the lag in PvP made 
 the game not worth playing.
  
  This game is awful. I don't know why it has such high scores on GameSpot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Billygoat100
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 9, 2006 7:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is Great in all ways, the free online play makes it a must buy for all MMORPG lovers, 
 i recomend this for anyone who likes Online play.
  
  GRAPICS
  
  Decent, but could be better it isnt very laggy at full. The ground looks unrealistic in some spots, 
 and the armor on other ppl but you looks 
  cheaper, and less graphical
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Great controls and easy view changing, its very easy to maneuver during battle and switching between 
 enimies. The PVP is exceptional, but it seems, lacking somthing.
  
  SOUND
  
  Great music, updates are frequent for sound, graphics, and even... HOLIDAY THEMES, they make the 
 game more life-like to us MMOrpg players.
  
  oh, and my name on GW is Jo N, please dont spam me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loseman
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 9, 2006 6:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is so extremely fun. I play it non stop. So far i have 750 hours on the game and running 
 in the past 5 months. With pvp the game never ends. Killing other people never gets old for me. 
 The guild fights are the best part of the game for me. With you and 8 of your guildmates trying 
 to destory 8 others from everywhere from japan to italy it never gets old. I used to play EQ but 
 i prefer this much more. And probably 1 of the best reasons this is better than other mmorpgs is 
 that there is no monthly fee, thank god. Tired of paying 50 bucks for a game and then keep paying 
 over and over. Of course with this great of a game I would be willing to pay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jakeblaze
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 9, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  This game remind me so much of diablo series, except with an even better presentation. First thing, 
 the one true appeal to this game is definitely the graphic and overall feel to it if you ever try 
 it. The game look stellar if you put enough money into your video card and ram. The game started 
 with the beautiful look into the country of ascalon, the western style city of the world of Tyria. 
 It's stunningly cool to look at the variety of special effect and texture in the game, especially 
 if you are into medieval period mixes with a small dose of eastern culture. You pretty find that 
 this game cross alot of boundary in term of culture, but mostly in western value, but with news 
 update coming soon, all that would be changes just like WoW. Although WoW (world of warcraft) may 
 seem to retain much of fanlist and great sense of achievement in their online crown king of mmorp, 
 this game can still put up a well-rounded competition against it's top competitor. 
  
  One main difference that Guild war and WoW has to offer is that WoW is based on a long series of 
 game that promoted one another with strong supports of old and new fans. Guild war on the other 
 hand build upon much of it's own hype in term of graphic and presentation. The gameplay is both 
 similiar except GW is really compelling the first you started it if you ever play Everquest or 
 Baldur Gate series. The graphic is both refreshing and lively as oppose to WoW cartoonish character 
 that still hold good amount of praises. Guild Music never was a winning grammar record, but it 
 hold along well with the game content and overall feels to it. Consequently, it has a minor effect 
 toward the overall package that is definitely sweet and welcoming in the world of mmorp dominated 
 by WoW. If you ever feel Everquest was a bummer and Baldur Gate too short, this game may well rock 
 your world and friends who join you in the quest in conquering Tyria and people around the globe. 
 Lasting appeal is most definitely strong but make sure that you have a instinctive taste for the 
 western culture of warfare and look to really become a desperate addict to this game. But overall, 
 this game rock the world of mmorp just like when WoW start catalist. If you are not a WoW fan, 
 then trying this game may be your best move ever after diablo or everquest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JuliousJ
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 9, 2006 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a excellent game. Its very fun and you wont get bored of it easy. In this game you 
 get great graphics, storyline, and online rpg fun. This game lets u join up and play with thousands 
 of different people. You can help your friends beat the storyline or mess around trying to find 
 better weapons than the ones u got. The mane reason this game is fun is because u can make a guild 
 which is like a clan were u a recruited members can figt other guild and/or help each other out. This 
 game involves alot of team work. So if you want a great online rpg then buy this game. Oh another 
 good thing is that there are no additional online fees for this game its free to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thane1616
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 8, 2006 9:01 pm PT
Review:  There are some things done right and there are some things done wrong.
  Things done right=
  1. graghics
  2. the story
  3. the smoothnest of dufficullty increase
  4. how many ppl play the 
 game
  5. no play cost
  
  Things done wrong=
  1. the way you leave the city no i dont mean that the wait time is bad but I mean that its not a 
 seemless world like the one in WoW
  2. there is no mail system and the storage is way to small if you have like 3 or 4 characters that 
 are over lvl 10
  3. the armor system isnt that great to me but then again this is a pvp based game so if were all 
 using the same armor then its even
  4. theres about 3 or 4 places to get the best drops and they take hours to do in a way that makes 
 it so u dont wipe
  5. guilds can only hold 200ppl or atleast thats what it was last time I heard anything about guild 
 size
  
  To end like I said something is missing and i have a lvl 20 so its not the leveling system or the 
 "grind" that comes with leveling. Now that I think about it that something missing is ether in 
 the game play or the things you can do at lvl 20. I have played WoW and at lvl 60 there is so much 
 to do and also if you dont want to do any PvE or pvp or anything like that you can work on a profession 
 like mining or skinning and there are many more. All together I think even with the fee WoW is 
 a better game. ps I dont have WoW right now but I am working on it. I will update this then, but 
 I have played WoW at a freinds hour and I have 2 or 3 lvl 10 chars.
  
  If you got something to say hit me up on GW im Lord Octavius ps I have my own guild if you want 
 in send a pm for that to tryin to get ppl for gvg. Sadistic Falcons is the guild name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3P00nsyou
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Well this will be very quick. Firstly, there are no monthly fees, when you buy the game, no more 
 things (unlike WOW and COH/V) and many others. Also, it is just like those kind of games and better 
 in many ways too. This game is an absolute great game. I have never played this game, however I 
 have looked at this site and the Guild Wars site (www. guildwars. com) and have saw videos, pics 
 and information. But, when Guild Wars: Factions comes out, I will be the 1st to get. Also, it has 
 great everything, graphics, gameplay, and sound. Great at everything. Buy it right away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gm_jyoo
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 8, 2006 2:15 am PT
Review:  As a fan of both RPG's and MMO's, I found this game to be very intriguing when it was first announced. 
 And being the cheap son of a gun I am, I was ecstatic when I learned that there's no monthly subscription 
 fee for this mmorpg. That's right... NO subscription fee. Pay the price of the game, go home, install, 
 and play. 
  
  Firstly, the game looks absolutely gorgeous. Even on fairly low end PCs, this game will run great. 
 But on midrange PCs, putting the graphics settings to highest will make the game really shine. 
 There are some load times, but are (even on lower end PCs) very fast. And each map is very, very 
 large and equally beautiful. There is a lot of attention to detail in the worlds. The characters 
 themselves look absolutely fantastic and the game suffers slow downs only in intense battles or 
 in crammed districts, which serve as congregational hubs in each city or town. The animations 
 are smooth, but tend to be a bit choppy when spells or skills and such are interrupted. However, 
 with the graphics being so darn good, the attention to detail somewhat drops after a while. Each 
 map is different and each region of the world is different, but after a while, a lot of the environments 
 become a little bland and sometimes cloy. There is a stark contrast between the introductory segment 
 of the game and the main part of the game in terms of visuals. The introductory segment is very 
 finely detailed and gorgeous whereas the rest of the world seems a bit lacking or repetitive in 
 comparison.
  
  On the audio front, the game has a wide variety of sound effects and cool music. But after a while, 
 it does get rather repetitive. The voice acting in the game is at times very laughable and somewhat 
 throws the player out of context. Other than that, nothing much else can be said about the audio.
 
  
  As this is an mmorpg, this game will quite literally tear chunks out of your life if you get into 
 it. The game ranges from both superficial to deep in terms of its controls and such. The control 
 scheme is very simple and innovative in its limited eight skill toolbar that seems deceptively 
 simple. But this toolbar provides extraordinary depth when it comes to strategizing. A basic 
 understanding of the controls, which is easy enough to learn, will get you through the beginning 
 of the game fairly well. At later levels, a much deeper understanding of the controls (which should 
 come naturally over the course of the gradually increasing difficulty of the game) is essential 
 when it comes to later missions. But at the advanced levels, the level of depth a player needs 
 to successfully play can be a bit daunting because so much concentration is required.
  
  All in all, this game is absolutely amazing and ambitious. It is a totally new way to look at the 
 mmorpg genre and it delivers a satisfying and fun experience. For the amount of time I have personally 
 devoted to the game, the $50-ish I spent seems like a rip off on the developers part. But this 
 game is worth more for every penny than any other game I have come across. You will be hard pressed 
 to find a game such as this. If you want a game that delivers communal, action-packed, intense, 
 carnage-filled, deep gameplay, look no further.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: x2themaxdragon
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 7, 2006 7:31 am PT
Review:  I am addicted to this game and all I can say is the only reason it did not get a 10/10 is because 
 my graphics card is not that good... but this game still runs smooth on my comp even though it really 
 is not that good either! Im only like halfway thro and i already have to characters because if 
 you get tired of your current one in game then you can just make an entirely new and and its lterally 
 a WHOLE NEW EXPERIENCE!
  
  long story short... u dont have this game??? go buy it.... NOW.
  
  
  a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valdarez
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 13, 2006 5:03 am PT
Review:  A friend of mine, who was bored with the game, ended up giving me his Guild Wars discs. I had high 
 expectations for the game; for I had heard that the developers who created the game were the same 
 ones that had created Diablo, which remains one of my favorite games of all time. Unfortunately, 
 I did not have time to play the game right away, so I sat it on my desk, and there it layed for 
 several months. It wasn't until Christmas arrived, and with no work in sight thanks to a recent 
 layoff, that I found that the time to sit down for some good ole hack n slash RPGn.
  
  I estimate that I played the game for roughly seven hours and managed to get to up to a level 7 
 character. I even teamed with a friend for a couple of the team based quests. However, after seven 
 hours of gaming, the only thing I was finding in the game was more of the same, and the same wasnt 
 good. The game play was lacking, there was no story, and there were no cut scenes what-so-ever.
 
  
  So, lets start with the game play. The battles were fairly easy and I never found even a remotely 
 challenging battle. The fighting itself is boring. Boring how you might ask? Boring due to its 
 simplicity. A child of three could learn this game and excel. How can that be fun? Maybe it got 
 more complicated later on; maybe the action actually increases in intensity. Perhaps, but seven 
 hours is more than enough time for the game to increase in difficulty. After seven hours the game 
 has to start challenging a player on some level and it has to provide some form of an ongoing storyline 
 to keep your interest.
  
  One thing you will hear me rant about frequently is the quality of a good story. The story simply 
 has to be there, especially in an RPG. If there is no story, there is no game, and Guild Wars has 
 no story. Players are given random, senseless quests, and expected to solve them for silly rewards. 
 I completed every quest I came across, of which there were a lot, but they didn't appear to have 
 anything to do with one another and there wasn't any type of overarching theme between them that 
 could even attempt to pass as a storyline. I am sorry, senseless quests, regardless of quantity, 
 do not make a good game.
  
  At some point in the game, players have to be rewarded with some eye candy for all of their hard 
 work, either via a CGI cut scene, or an in game cut scene (using the game engine itself) . A cut 
 scene is typically where the game expounds on the storyline and provides some type of closure to 
 one segment of the story and an introduction to another aspect of the story. Guild Wars had a brief 
 introduction and there were absolutely zero cut scenes in sever hours of play. No story exposition 
 and no reward for the player who has invested long hours of their time into the game.
  
  Due to the fact that it was made by the developers from Blizzard, I had high hopes for this game, 
 but I have to report that this game is simply not worth playing. I cant even in good conscious 
 recommend it as a bargain basement buy. The only redeeming aspect may be found in the Player vs. 
 Player mode, which I never had urge or desire to play. If you are looking for an epic RPG game, 
 then you should pass on Guild Wars. The only thing epic in the game is the boredom.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Greatwasabi
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 5, 2006 11:03 am PT
Review:  This game is far better than other mmorpgs like WoW, Final Fantasy, Everquest. But what i think 
 the best thing about this game is that there is no monthly charge... its great you just buy the 
 game and thats it. I couldnt believe it when i saw how large the gamworld is and how good the graphics 
 were. The combat is fun and fast paced, it beats out all the other games in every way and the no 
 monthly charge is icing on the cake.
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  What usually drives me away from mmorpgs is nagging kill stealers and noobs whining about how theyre 
 so poor and they follow you around begging for money. Theres none of that in this game, once you 
 leave a city you are the only person out there, you cant see anybody else. Its not like theres 
 a bunch of invisible people killing monsters, no, you get your own private little world and if 
 you want people to join you then you invite them into your party. It really is a great system but 
 i have no idea how they managed to do it without monthly charges. I also love the combat, it is 
 fun, brutal, and fast paced. Combat varies between classes wether you enjoy beating your enemies 
 to a pulp with a huge hammer or turning them into a burnt piece of fat with your fire magic its 
 just great. And another awesome thing is the death system. You dont lose experience or lose your 
 precious items or money. You just go back to the nearest spawn point and your stats are reduced 
 by fifteen percent for a limited amount of time or if you dont have a real goal and youre just 
 leveling up you can enter a city and poof back to normal, you can also teleport yourself between 
 cities which was another cool option. So no more snapping your keyboard in half over your knee 
 because you got killed by some huge fat thing and lost your 2 million gp sock. Okay ill stop before 
 you people get bored about reading all the awesome gameplay features.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  Graphics were overall very good but sometimes you do get a little bored with some of the monsters 
 who often look just like another one but with a different name and a higher level. Everything else 
 was great though, armor looks very different from one another but you can mix and match anything 
 and somehow it just goes together. Level design and landscapes were also done very well.
  
  Sound 8/10
  Soundtrack was perfect but everything else fell a little short in the sound department. 
 Enemies all have the same dying sound and the sounds when you fire a fire ball or slice someones 
 vital organs open with an invisible sword are generally the same, but sound doesnt really make 
 an mmorpg so nothing to complain about really.
  
  Value 9/10
  Ive kind of stopped playing cause some stupid friend of mine deleted my very very very very best 
 character but im pretty sure im gonna start up again soon cause ive been hearing about it and its 
 growing on me again. Starting over with a new character is always fun and youll always have a blast 
 redoing missions since they are never the same. Oh and whats that you say... NO monthly charges 
 at all, so if you dont feel like playing for a few weeks you dont have to feel guilty. 
  
  Get this game if you enjoy, even slightly enjoy mmorpgs, you wont feel guilty for not playing it 
 ever second of your life and its really easy to get from desktop to the game, you can even play 
 it in a window, how cool is that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: royvanderhoorn
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 5, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  Where to start? Guild Wars is absolutely the best Online Role Playing game i've ever played, and 
 i've played all of them! Why? Well, it's because of several things, like no fee every month, just 
 1 time the price of the game and that's it. I really hate the fees for like Wow, like 12 bucks 
 every month :S What kinda crap is that. Now I know that Wow has a lot of updates, but so does Guild 
 Wars.
  
  Guild Wars is an online multiplayer game that you need to be playing online (for the dumb ;) ) 
 and it's all about creating the character that you wish to be. You start the game making decisions 
 like being male or female. Select your primary class. There are six different classes to choose 
 from. I chose Warrior, because Warriors are the strongest in Hand To Hand combat. You can also 
 choose Elementelist, Necromancer, Monk, Ranger or Mesmer. They all have their advantages and disadvantages 
 along in combat. The monk can heal himself faster and also help allies, while the Ranger is master 
 in bows and can get a so called pet to stand at their side. Necromancers can summon dead people 
 to help them, and so on. There are different skills that your character can learn. At first you 
 have to choose some points that go to skills. Do you want to give many points to swordmanship for 
 example? Or do you prefer strength in overall? It's all up to you. That makes your character unique 
 from the rest. At the start, you have got an standard armor. But as you do quests throughout Ascalon 
 and other regions, you will gain experience points and money that you can spend to your characters 
 evolution and appearance. Once your character has been created, you can start your adventure that 
 will lead you to various places and towns. Do you want to battle for some exp. points? Or do you 
 wish to trade with other people from the whole world? Your decision.
  
  the makers of GW designed the game so, that you don't have to follow a lineair storyline. You can 
 do some quests together, with a maximum of 8 players. In towns you can see other players and trade 
 with them, or just chat and have fun! You can form a Guild, which is kinda like a group that help 
 eachother and have meetings and do battles together. Outside the cities and towns you van only 
 see the players that are with your party, that you have joined in the city. Fighting against monsters 
 and creatures is your main quest, and you can talk to the local people for quests and missions. 
 Explore the world of Ascalon and others together, and get to know other towns with different people 
 and items to find.
  
  First to say: The graphics are awesome. On my pc everything is running smoothly with my 9800 PRO. 
 It's really fun just to look at the world and see all kinds of things. However if you stay at one 
 place for too long, it can get boring. This game has a lot to offer, and it's different for every 
 individual. Some of you will have bad experience with other players, other people will get help 
 from more experienced players right away. You can develope your character yo lvl 20 max. which 
 is a bit short of course. But the game is really good, and you can play it for a very long time. 
 Just help out your Guild doing a mission, be a trader. Sell weapons, or other items keeps you from 
 getting bored. I'm very happy with the load times, they dind't even took 5 sec with me. Good combat 
 system, which will take some time to learn and good use with skills, but once u know about that 
 it's real good. You can also battle eachother, but only if you both want it. That is a really good 
 thought I think. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: F2tality
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 5, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  Guild is the ONLY free MMO on the market and that's all I needed to hear to go pick this game up. 
 Ok, so in this game it is easy to level up. I maxed out my character in a weekend. Guild battles 
 are fun. Lots of helpful people. Takes a while to pick up the lingo. May get bored after you max 
 out your character. Some people will need a mentor to help them out in the beginning. Overall, 
 a very enjoyable expperience. I would advice people to get recruited by a helpful guild early on. 
 Oh yeah and did I mention no monthly fee? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpimpfattony
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 4, 2006 11:32 pm PT
Review:  One of the best Role playing games made out there. Despite the fact it is free, unlike World of 
 Warcraft, making Guild-Wars even better than it is. The game is entirely multiplayer, so if you 
 have a bad connection, or don't play internet games, this isnt for you. The graphics for a roleplaying 
 game are outstanding. The storyline is incredibly long, and quite catchy. The sound is above average, 
 and the interactivity is wide. Many new features included that were never seen in other RPGs so 
 far. Between World of Warcraft and Guild Wars i pick Guild Wars just because of the free online 
 play. Thanks Arena Net.
  
  +Great graphics
  +Good storyline
  +Many character classes
  
  -Sound not as great as expected
  -No singleplayer
  -Character level doesnt exceed 20 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_DoDo56
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2006 10:34 pm PT
Review:  When this game came out I immediatly bought it. It was the best game I've ever played! I tried 
 out the PVE and got to lvl 20 and then made 2 more which are currnetly in-progress. I have tried 
 out the PVP and love the types of matches. I think that Guild Wars is a keepsake and when Factions 
 comes out it'll be getting maybe 500,000 more people! It'll going up against WoW for the top title. 
 I'm going to give Guild Wars at least a 9.5 because it is just soooo good! For anyone who hasn't 
 tried it needs to and for those who like RPG's buy it. It is the best way to get some MMORPG and 
 Regualr RPG in one game. The game loads almost instally and updates are coming in every day! I 
 hope someday it'll be in a golden case. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trunks0100
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 4, 2006 9:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best MMORPG I have ever played and it even has a free online play!!!! This game 
 is all about skill and not about how many hours you play the game so you could play for 100 hours 
 and maybe not get anything useful but you could play for an hour and get some skill that works 
 out a combo that you made up! If anyone wants to buy an online game and doesnt want to pay to play 
 every month this is the game you chould get. If anyone wants any help try to contact me in the 
 game. 
  
  Guild Wars username: Inuyasha Halfdemon
  
  Also if anyone does not have a guild and is interested in a new guild you will receive a free entry 
 fee and if I can i will help you with anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jermie1193
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2006 8:02 pm PT
Review:  
  Good: 
  *Free no cost monthly
  *main missions
  *good graphics
  *you can dye your armor for a unique look
  *you are allowed to get a secondary proffesion which 
 you can use skills from the secondary proffesion you choose
  *fun PVP 
  *Your guild can have battles against other guild and its own guild hall which is a place where 
 only the members of the guild can go (normally on a island or fortress)
  Bad:
  *not much updates
  *no open maps 
  *many of the characters look the same
  *fighting style 
 very repetive
  *only one race
  more of a gothic fantasy world than a fun fantasy world (unlike WoW's rich lush and cartoonish fantasy 
 world)
  *since the game is free Arena Net does not come out with patches often
  *death penalties when you die which lowers your health and energy
  *no raids 
  *no mounts to 
 ride 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xmater
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2006 1:10 am PT
Review:  This is a cool game because it's free to play and it have a good game play.
  The sound in the game is also good, and the graphic is wonderful. I like the idea of the game, 
 and i hope more of the free to play games are coming soon. I don't know if i want the new Guild 
 Wars : Factions, and some friends in game can be good to have. The game is perfect and at the same 
 time amazing, soo i give it 10, because it's a game that you not throw away after a few hours. 
 But maybe Hell gate : London can take over, i think it can but how many want to go another game 
 if whey are good at the on they play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rgokussj
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 1, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Welcoome to Guild Wars! Gw is an mmorpg that has 5 chareter classes such as Warrior Mesmer Monk 
 Elamentis and Ranger. The game is about a great kingdom call Ascalon an the brink of destrution 
 by a enemy race called the Char. So its up to you and thousands of other players to save your homeland. 
 You begin the game in a pre setting whitch means the entire area will be easy to understand and 
 make your way around. But, when the time comes the real adventure begins as you will enter the 
 true and real world of the game the way the game is set up is that you start in towns or cities 
 but when you leave u get your own privite copy of the world map so this mean you wont be able to 
 see other players run around in true mmorpg form. The only way to make other people join you is 
 to get into a part y of 4-6 people as u move along the partys can get larger. One of the best parts 
 of the game are the pvp battles. the eays to understand and easy to jump in right away. 
  
  
  The pvp is so intense that NC soft has made campion ship battes with cash prizes involved you 
 really can go places when you master this game. Some of the only this i found worn with the game 
 is the sound is not the best out there but the musical score could be a little better they could 
 of also aded races to the game all humans not really the best. Some of the best things I found 
 on the game was the encidible engine they used with crystal smooth graphics and the are lot and 
 I mean lots of mosters and bosses you can fight. Event though the lvl cap is only 20 im sure that 
 will change in time. This game may not be for eveyone but its a fun and fast action rpg that will 
 change online gaming 
  with its great no monthly fee until the next reviw farewell. 
  Rgokussj 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gr33nHippo
Rating: 9.9
Date: Feb 1, 2006 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Excellent. Some players might disagree because of the fact that it is not actually a 
 mmorpg. Before i got this game i felt that this would make the game boring, but i was proved wrong. 
 The strength of your character comes from skill, and not time put in.
  
  Graphics: BEAUTIFUL!!! This game looks great even with a crappy computer, so dont worry! The landscapes 
 are each wonderfully detailed and unique. The characters are realistic and make the player become 
 completely immersed in the world of Guild Wars. 
  
  Sound: One of the best soundtracks for a pc game. The music nicely matches the region you are traveling 
 through. There are a few sounds for attacks and spells that are repetitive, but i hardly notice. 
 
  
  Value: This game is guaranteed to entertain you for 100+ hours, i myself have played it for around 
 150 hours. I am still as interested in the game as i was when i got it. 
  
  Tilt: My first online rpg, since its free!!! This game is highly enjoyable and i recommend it for 
 anyone who has a computer :p. For those of you short on cash and debating whether to get this or 
 WoW, id choose Guild Wars. However, if you have the money to pay for monthly fees, you might as 
 well get both. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottwilkins
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 1, 2006 6:43 am PT
Review:  GuildWars like most on-line role playing games, becomes more enjoyable once you've established 
 a relationship with a good group of like gamers. While it's very playable as a single player, which 
 recent updates have made it even more so, once you've become a member of a guild the whole game 
 changes.
  
  I play MMORPGs mainly for content, but that content is much more available with the resources of 
 a large guild. Within that patronage you'll find answers to places you've not yet seen in the game. 
 And help with discovering new places and new adventures.
  
  I'm still amazed that this game has zero monthly costs. Yet, it continues to get updated and enhanced 
 on a regular basis, if not more often than the games that do have a monthly cost associated. I 
 also like their update method, it's extremely seemless and can happen at any time, usually without 
 you knowing that something has changed unless you look hard. Very nice. I always hated the tedious 
 update methods of Warcraft and Everquest.
  
  Only dislikes about Guild Wars are few. It seems the balance of the game is not very well planned. 
 As I continued a quest through a few locations, I was surprized that one leg of the quest had good 
 foes to fight, while another had foes that were so low in level that I was not even gaining any 
 experience. But these quests were back to back and linear. Oh well. Also, the graphics are good, 
 but not great. I dislike the "path" setup of most maps. I prefer a very open map. The game won't 
 let your character drop off a cliff, no matter how short the fall. Yuck! Graphics overall could 
 really use some attention to detail. Trees are all too often too low to the ground, something you 
 just can't do in a 3rd person RP game. Graphics just aren't up to the level of EQ2 or Warcraft, 
 close but not quite. Some keyboard commands would be nice, like an "attack closest foe now" which 
 currently takes 2 keys rather than 1. Those are picky problems though, not really game killers.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ninja8021
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 31, 2006 4:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is totally all some. Missions are cool, the world, is HUGE. Its just like plant earth 
 in one game. Theres so many missions, quest, people, skills, professions, weapons, armor, and the 
 best yet, you can TRADE WITH PEOPLE. You can also DYE your amore. Play internatioal to visit friends 
 from another country. I like it alot because theres NO FEE, NO FEE, to play. You play online with 
 other people for free. Trust me once you lay a finger on it, you'll never quit playing. It to addicting 
 to stop. Buy it and try it. you'll see. 
 BEWARE OF GUILD WARS FRACTIONS" I'm a Assassin/ Rulalist
  
  Stealth Ninja- Martials arts 
 of stealth technique 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madroxide87
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 31, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  
  The graphics and story are unlike anything I have ever seen. Definately worth playing, especially 
 if you don't agree with the "pay to play" scheme that Everquest (Evercrack) and World of Warcraft 
 have to offer. Once I started playing this though, I found it very hard to get up and go do anything 
 else. Its one of those games where your friends want to play, and you keep telling them to hold 
 on until they have to leave. lol. The learning curve in it isn't very steep either. To get a good 
 hold on the game only takes a little while, to master it and compete on the other hand, could take 
 the majority of the game. The kind people at Arenanet and NC Soft keep it the game nicely updated 
 as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: batistafan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 30, 2006 5:44 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best RPG Games ever to me and it is really fun. You can make your own guilds, 
 meet your friends, do quests and so much more. The quests are really fun and PvP (Player Vs Player) 
 Is also very fun. Its kind of like World of Warcraft but I don't know which one is better to me 
 I think at the moment they are both the same. But I might change my mind to see which is better 
 also the races you can choose are great. I recommend this game to RPG players because its an awesome 
 game you must have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 29, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  Free online gaming, great graphics, and amizing offline gameplay. We else could you want for a 
 RPG PC game. It is a perfect role playing fantasy game. It is good game but something is missing 
 from the game. It lacks space on the internet map. There aren't many places to travel unless you 
 are part of a Guild. It is fun all in all. IF you enjoy games like City of Heroes or Star Wars 
 Galaxies then you'll love this. The positive about this game is that it'spractically the same thing 
 and there are no monthly charges when playing online. It is addictive totally worth the money. 
 I would totally recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakeyd
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 29, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  this is by far THE best game ive ever played. everything an mmorpg should be. 
  The character creation system is rather limited though, you can choose from about 5 or 6 classes 
 each with about 175 unique skills. you will need to think differently with each class, use a new 
 strategy for each mission. later on in the game you can choose a sub profession so you could end 
 up as a ranger necromancer or a warriot monk. the continents are beautiful and huge. there is always 
 something to explore and the game is never too easy. unlike most mmorpgs you dont start out feeling 
 useless and being called a noob. you start with reletively good armour and weapons, you learn skills 
 at the very beginning.
  but the game is rather short. longer than diablo 2 though i must say. the graphics on the actual 
 players is immense but the cutscenes are rather disapointing only problem is there mouths dont 
 move when they talk so that kind of runins the game. i wouldnt go about researching different classes 
 to find the best one because they all have there own advantages for which ever class and subclass 
 you choose so which ever combination you use your bound to be powerful. Aswell as on most other 
 mmorpgs you get people farming and rushing for item drops, but on guild wars you play on your own 
 private server so you team up in town ( the towns are split into districts so it doesnt get crowded 
 and laggy, you only enter your own server once youve left town) and then go off adventuring with 
 your team . to tackle the farming theyve created it so everything stays dead until you go back 
 in and out of town so you cant stand there waiting for the enemy to respawn ( unless you really 
 want to but you might be there for a while) also when a creature dies instead of the items being 
 for anyone they assign items to people so only YOU can pick it up. but the problem with this is 
 sometimes it is unfair and some people get more items than others. the primary story missions can 
 get long and tiring and its hard to find a good team but the reward is great. also the henchman 
 you can hire are extremely dumb.
  
  anyway enough said, great game a must buy 
  over and out.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hittin
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 29, 2006 9:52 am PT
Review:  Graphics::::::::::
  The graphics this game has are rare. Most games that are non first person shooter, haven't got 
 graphics that are too great. This game does. Everything in this game is detailed, the textures, 
 the polygons, the enemies, the weapons, the spells.
  
  Gameplay:::::::
  This is the main aspect of Guild Wars. Gameplay in Guild Wars is stunning, and you want to play 
 more and more! The world is massive, the PVE is awesome, the spells and quests are also excellent.
 
  The characters are perfectly balanced, and there's a great story, and it's sometimes more addicting 
 than World Of Warcraft.
  You will never get bored of this game, mainly because; there's always something to do in this game, 
 which doesn't get boring. You want to keep on getting more XP, and getting more weapons and better 
 armour, also you want to keep on getting a higher level, and spending points on attributes.
  I'm only a level 6, but this game is awesome, i like it more than World Of Warcraft.
  
  Sound:::::::::
 
  The sound in this game is amazing. All the attacks of weapons have realistic sounds, the raining 
 is perfect in sound. The sound in this game makes it certainly more interesting, and builds up 
 the action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Websunny
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 29, 2006 6:07 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a fantastic game.
  
  It is huge, it has a good story and it feels like a real MMORPG. Here, you need to get into the 
 unvierse, be helpful so that your receive help your self and all in all - get into the gaming world 
 to get the best experience.
  
  The different professions and profession combinations are awesome, the character models are simply 
 beautiful and the graphics are incredible, compared to other MMORPG like WoW.
  
  Guild Wars has no mounthly fee and that makes the game even more enjoyable. You can play the main 
 storyline, do quests, gain experience, farm for gold and items and also play the very cool PvP 
 part of the game!
  
  If you have a Guild, then it is even better, since you can help each other, feel like a community 
 in the roleplaying portion of the game, and fight for honour and glory in PvP.
  
  Graphics, sound, gameplay is awesome. There can be problems with the lag. There is generally a 
 very little lag, but when it occurs, it can ruin the experience - wether in roleplaying part or 
 PvP.
  The gaming world and the characters are brilliant and it is all very beautful. You can customize 
 your character down to small details and that is great.
  
  The game does lack some more features. For example more armour models, since there are only quite 
 few for each profession as well as more variety in weapons. Throwing weapons, spears, two-handed 
 swords, two-handed axes, maces - it is not there. It would be very cool if it was there, but the 
 game experiene is still great! These are only small things that could have been better!
  
  The value is very good and you will have hundreds of hours of fun playing Guild Wars - but - you 
 need to like the genre. There is a lot of fun in PvE since you can do so many things - help your 
 friends, trade with other people, do minor quests, gain experience, farm and if you want - to hang 
 out in the towns and have a good chat with people while dancing.
  
  PvP portion offers a great ammount of fun as well, since it is balanced and you can choose different 
 arenas; Random Arenas (4v4 - randomly generated teams for gladiator style battles. Quick to get 
 into) , Team Arenas (4v4 Gladiator Action, but this time you must assemble your own team at the 
 Arena outpost. You can play with your mates this way, but it is hard to make good tactics with 
 random people) Heroes' Ascent (Tournement play. Tough to find a good party without friends online, 
 but very interesting) as well as GvG which is GuildBattle happening at a Guild's Guild Hall.
  
  It's a great game - recommended to everyone - with a few things that could have been polished, 
 but definately one of the best MMORPGs out there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samurai93745
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2006 9:15 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is one of the best MMO there is for PC. If you are a fan of online RPG's or any kind 
 of RPG.... you will enjoy playing this game. This game has a good story line and good game play 
 and does a good job of character creation. Something they did very well was not let everybody run 
 around out side towns, like in diablo where anybody could just run ahead of you and kill everything, 
 and there would be nothing left for you. In this game if some one is not in your party they will 
 not be with you out side towns. The game makes different worlds for every party which I found was 
 very cool. For quests.... well I found there was alot, never got around to doing all of them yet, 
 and there are always new side quest being added to the game which is fun. If you like PvP, in Guild 
 Wars you can join guilds (clans) and have guild battles to see what clan is the best.
  
  Overall this game has alot of content, and theres always new content being added so there will 
 always be something to do in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefallofadamxx
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2006 3:44 am PT
Review:  Guild wars is one of the greatest games I have ever played in my opinion.
  It has one of the biggest worlds I have ever seen and at least 20 tyoes of characters you can customize, 
 and over hundreds of weapons, armor, shields and all types of tools you can use. It has a very 
 high replay value, and you can beat the game over and over and still find new things you ave never 
 encountered before. The game has free online play. FREE. And in updates your game automatically 
 at every load up. And with the new expansion coming out in the spring, the game will truly have 
 more that enough for you to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordRandom
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 26, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  I find rpgs extremely boring. They feel like click, and wait for clip to show how the character 
 attacks type of games. Guild Wars, however, is non stop action. It has many exciting quests, goals, 
 weapons and skills to unlock. Since this rpg is online gameplay, the weapons, skills and quests 
 get updates frequently. Furthermore, online gameplay is free. It is not system demanding and the 
 replayability for this game is just insane, in a very good way. This rpg can very well last me 
 for more than a couple years. Don't settle for any rpg, get this one. There is no way u r going 
 to regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior159815
Rating: 3.9
Date: Jan 26, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Its great at first them  
 its so unbelivabley boreing! At first you like WOW this game beats the hell out of WoW or DND (im 
 not a fanboy to WoW or DnD but im just saying) . Your like WOW! this game is the best! Im never 
 going to leave it, it will never get boreing! *3 Weeks later* "Man this game is sooo boreing! *puts 
 gun to mouth* Sure the game is pretty to look at i'll give you that but its not a MMORPG on any 
 level its only for casual players....!!! So now seeing other players in combat zones. But that 
 is sorta good because no one ganks you or your kill and doesn't take you loot. But that makes it 
 boreing not seeing and one except in a town or outpost.. UGHHHHHHH....
  
  
  MY final decision..... dont get it unless you a casual gamer otherwise its boreing as heck and 
 a waste of money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazykazmikaze
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jan 26, 2006 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Good: Good story mission, fun pvp modes, great graphics, easy install, and privately generates zones, 
 awesome holiday games and goodies and interesting world, no montly fee.
  Bad: Horrible voice acting, not enough emotes, lvl 20 cap, horrible targeting system, not enough 
 variety in weapons or armour i. e. two things may have different names and stats but look the same, 
 crafting weapons and armour is stupid and a money waster, no quest variety, no emote sounds actually 
 no sounds at all for characters except grunts and groans in fights, no open ended gameplay, no 
 good players vs bad players, less social, can not fully explore worlds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marioreaper
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 26, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this game for some time now, enough to write a review.
  The graphics are pretty good, not something to suck up to mindlessly but enough to immerse yourself 
 in the game. The premise of the game was to have free SKILLFULL gameplay and i will now explain 
 how the game sets out trying to do this. Whenever you set out, the game makes a seperate copy of 
 the map for you and your partymates. This will be similiar to diablo players. Moving around affects 
 the accuracy of people trying to shoot you A. K. A. its realistic. Its pretty fun and addictive but 
 at times it can get pretty repetitive and boring unless youre in a fun party. Everybody spawns at 
 the same town so you can interact with each other. The creators also place emphasise on the single 
 player which is, in my opninon, alright. It isnt anything special, not to just buy the game for.
  
  In fact if you dont play the multiplayer guild wars you are missing out on a huge chunk of 
 the game. It can be pretty fun but people will trick you into their guilds then take your money 
 so you have to carefull. However it can be pretty empty sometimes. (in both ways) .
  
  The music is critticaly acclaimed even though its pretty rubbish nothing special just your typical 
 RPG fanfare. The maxium level is 20 so naturally its hard to get a level to mearsure it out. This 
 can however create a horrible grind.
  
  So all in all, quite a good purchase if your new to MMORPG's or plan on diving further as its for 
 free and quite accessible. It will also teach you about the calamity that is th ''grind''.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Encimedes
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 27, 2006 5:16 am PT
Review:  
  Gameplay- Simple and fun game, with good amount of proffesion combinations and cool PvP. The quests 
 are a lot of fun and the missions just rock. The world is big and the plot is very intresting. 
 The guilds are great too. The only bad things is there is no mounts, you cant swim and jump freely, 
 and it can be hard sometimes to travel from place to place.
  
  Graphics- The art style is amazing, abselutly great. The characters look great too.
  
  Sound- 
 Overall it's great too, though could be a little better.
  
  Value- There is much to do, lots of quests and PvP options. It worths all the money and the fact 
 there is no monthly payment increase it's value.
  
  Tilt- Easy to use and learn, simple and fun to use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rty_Dawg
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 26, 2006 3:09 am PT
Review:  I bought this game ages ago and tried a few times to get started in it but for some reason I could 
 just not stick at it. I think I was going wrong by not trying all of the options available and 
 just jumping straight into the roleplay side.
  
  PvP is where this game is at, the roleplay stuff is good, no doubt about that, but the PvP is on 
 a whole new level.
  
  But I will start with the roleplay though, to get that out of the way as it is an important part 
 of the game and a whole game in its own right.
  
  You start out in the main city and like pretty much every other MMO you have to do jobs and run 
 quests for people and it return you get rewards. As you progress through the game, you get better 
 rewards and can buy bigger and better things for your character. There is nothing really new here, 
 which is probably why I could not stick at it.
  
  Now for the meat and potatoes of the game, the PvP. This is awesome. You generate a character, 
 already quite powerful and then jump straight into some hectic PvP battles. It is very fast but 
 also very fun gaming that really keeps you bashing away at the keyboard until every one of the 
 other side is on their backs!
  
  Everyone who loves a bit of PvP should give this game a go, it really is very good. There is no 
 monthly fee for the game which just adds to its attraction. In the next few weeks there is an expansion 
 coming as well so it looks like it is just going to get better and better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hberghorde
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 25, 2006 11:54 am PT
Review:  Well hello I'm hberghorde and this is my review: Guild Wars is a fantastic game because of its graphics, gameplay, story 
 and ofcourse it's multiplayer aspects.....
  
  What I like the most is that its MASSIVE so you can have guilds, partys and all that kind of things... but 
 I still dont have the game but it soon will
  
  It's also cool that you can choose different socalled classes what changes your favorite attributes 
 and how you look like so that you dont have all the same people arround you.......... but what dissapointed 
 me is that there're no other races because there all human....
  
  I think that Guild Wars is a cool RPG, I'm can't wait for Guild Wars Factions
  
  Greetings 
 hberghorde
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Onlinegeek
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 24, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  This game blew me away. I used to love rpg's but i was slowly falling out of the scence but this 
 game threw me into the new world of mmorpg's and i have been having more fun than i would being 
 traped on a bus with the cheerleaders of the dallas cowboys and the patriots where we all are only 
 weariong bathing suits. this game pulls you and holds you the many quests and for the most part 
 friendly people make the game flow and be a true group experiance much much homage to this game 
 and its creators. My congrats.
  
  plus no subscription fee
  
  tag Guntar Narok
  
  
  hit it up
  
  
  
  buy or u will wish u would die 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vulkan1992
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 24, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  I love this game!!! I've heard a lot about World of Warcraft but the subscription fee is what really 
 put me down.... So then I heard about Guild Wars!! No sub fee? I'm in!! Automatically I got into 
 it, meeting new friends, hanging out it town, leveling up.... can It get any better? Yes, tons 
 and tons of quests!!! I love this game and I can have fun without destroying my social life!!! 
 I love just adventuring around and finding new skills, Cities, armor, weopons, etc. If anyone is 
 new into The MMORPG world then defintly pick this up! If you arn't that new.. Pick this up anyway!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionBob
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 23, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Guild wars is an awesome title and yet another online game I have taken up as of late.
  What makes this game stand out is it took a single player rpg and an mmorpg
  making it into some 
 form of super game.
  For the record this isn't world of warcraft, however it might be the best mmorpg to get started 
 on.
  Why?
  Simple with no monthly fee you don't have to worry about whether or not purchasing the game will 
 be a costly mistake in which case you find your not a big massive multiplayer online role playing 
 game kinda person.
  From which you'll discountinue the monthly fees meaning your game isn't worth anything to you anymore.
 
  This game is great because if you find your not the kind of person that likes messing with other 
 people (I do suggest playing with human players) , you can just play through the game with mercenaries.
 
  Graphics wise its a great looking game that isn't to taxing on your machine.
  Sound however there really isn't much to say while the sound effects are solid and the music does 
 the job the sound isn't the stand out feature.
  Its the game play which is great fun the fighting is well done however like some other reviewers 
 have said you have limited slots for your spells.
  The way I see it is it just adds more strategy to the game.
  I do think Guildwars is at least 
 worth a try if your a rpg fan looking for something different.
  Or just someone who wants to try out the world of mmorpgs this game is bound to fit the description. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlandcarl
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 12:31 pm PT
Review:  The best online multiplayer game out there, also because you DONT need to pay MONTHLY fees which 
 is the best thing ever infented. Not like WoW were the game costs more then GW does and you have 
 to pay monthly.
  
  The selection of skills, professions and mission that you do is amazing and when your done with 
 the story there are also quests that you have to finish so your never quite done with the game. 
 When you finish the game it is not over you can still battle to beome the boss of the hall of heroes 
 the biggest tournament of the best players battleing it out for superior pride, also if you win 
 the price is not to bad!
  
  Also there are so many different armour, weapons, upgrades for weapons and skills that can be found 
 all around the GW community, which I like alot.
  
  It just doesnt get better then 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battleroyal
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 23, 2006 3:02 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a fantastic online mmorpg its world is gigantic.
  The Professions you can choose are all really good and really fun to play the abillity to make 
 a guild hall and guild cape is a great new addition to online mmorpg.
  The number of quests are awesome and verry different to play especially when you have a party with 
 you its most fun to play the quests.
  The PvP ( Player vs Player ) side of the game is also fun to play you can create a chararter at 
 maximun level and battle againts other guilds and people in arena's.
  
  Guild Wars is the best online mmorpg game of 2005 and we hope that the expansions are just as great 
 as the basic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xSpitFire3x
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 22, 2006 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars as everyone know is Free-per-month, just buy it at store and no more fees, EVER!
  
  The games updating system is GENIUS and no more stupid patching
  
  Graphics - If you have 
 a good comp this baby looks so good its unbelieveable. Even on a crappy computer on lowest settings 
 it looks better than most games out there. The characters look well detailed and the armour and 
 weapons are all distiguishable and sexy. The enviroments are done to perfection with realistic 
 terrain and details filling up ur screen. Spells look awsome and combat always looks cool.
  
  Gameplay - This is were people get confused. When you start the game its more of a tutorial 
 than anything limiting u 2 to a party and gets you a few skills to start off with. It also lets 
 you trade with some traders along the world for some small clothing upgrade.
  "Once you complete the Tutorial part and move on the game REALLY starts and doesnt let up."
  
 After that point, and you will know when its a major plot point in the game, the weapons and armor 
 list grows and the part sizes start to grow from 4 to 6 to finally 8. The story is excellent and 
 the massive amount of skills to gain makes this game special.
  *PvP is excellent but i play more PvE and more of a "Want the best of everything" person.
  
 
  Sound - The sound effects match what they need to match and the voice overs are well done, the 
 cutscenes are really engaging.
  
  Overall - Dont want to pay to play but want a good mmorpg, then pick this game up already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FCB_2100
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  This is for those few who I have seen give this game a 1.0 =)
  
  I've seen people say how useless materials are, how boring it is... etc.
  Let me just ask this... 
 How much of the game did you play?! 
  I mean, if you were looking for WoW right off the bat, oh well. But, if you got farther, you CAN 
 use materials, there ARE missions which aren't boring, and if you found this game confusing, with 
 8 spells out at a time and a compass telling you where to go, then I'm sorry you failed pre-school. 
 And as far as value goes, no monthly fee and the endless PvP playing. And if that's getting old, 
 there will be a new expansion in Spring '06.
  
  This game is definitely worth your money. No monthly subscription is also a plus.
  
  Good luck 
 defending your ignorance on this one guys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nemesis159
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2006 9:12 pm PT
Review:  I think it is a great game, but you better have something good, like high end DSL, because, I have 
 minimal DSL service, and it takes forever to load and lags. But it is free online play. The deal 
 on why it takes forever to load is that it downloads updates and other files EVERY time you go 
 somewhere. It gets annoying after a while, but the gameplay doesnt suffer because of it. Its a 
 little expensive, but oh well. However, the reason the learning curve is at 0 to 30 minutes is 
 because I have played computer RPGs most of my life.
  (Still like KOTOR better) Also, Factions is comping out in the Spring, and its great. The last 
 part is you may have to get lots of other stuff like teamspeak, a mike, maybe ventrillo, especially 
 if you are in a guild. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Menfear
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 25, 2006 10:55 am PT
Review:  As tons of other online role-play games Guild Wars is an other. You can`t compare Guild Wars with 
 an other RPG, because this one is unike in its own rank. Without that disturbing monthly fee like 
 in most of the RPG`s this game still gives you happiness for hours and hours playing as a role-playing 
 character or just if you preffer the player-vs-player mode. So three cheers for ArenaNet.
  
  In Guild Wars you play as a hero from Ascolon, a typical fantasy province that has fallen into 
 hard times thanks to the Charr attacks. The world where you play is just huge, its called Tyria, 
 the games content will be making quests alone or with a group of players. You can have either computer 
 controlled henchmens or with others players around tyria. You meet them in cities and outposts 
 where you can sell or buy things (weapons, armor and much more) . In cities or outpost you also have 
 computer controlled merchants, crafters and diffrents sellers. They can sell you a basic weapon 
 to start your game. The best way to get a good weapon is to trade or buy from one person. Every 
 player in Guild Wars has his own copy of the game, so if he goes through a portal he lands in his 
 own portion of the game, he can as already said go alone or with a group. To make a party (a group 
 of characters) you just have to talk to him in chat that is very well made, the best way is in 
 whisper chat, so you are talking alone,1on1 talk. Of course you dont have to chat with a henchmen, you 
 just click on him and add him to your party. Henchmens are available on every outpost or city near 
 the portal your own copy of the game. In that own copy of the game you play different quests and 
 you get them with talking to certain persons in the game. They give you a mission that you can 
 or dont have to do, so quest are there to be made or if you dont want to make them then just 
 dont. But my strong advice is that you make the quest because with that you earn gold and gather 
 different thing-you get them when you kill a creature (weapons, shield and tons of different items) . The 
 firs portion of the game is a nice, beautiful and peaceful world Tyria but with making quest you 
 get to a point when some important hero of Ascolon gives you the quest to come with them to a long 
 journey, the journey is quick over but the Charr finds a way to brake down the great wall and then 
 the beautiful, peaceful Ascolon-Tyria is no more. Every where sand deserts, nothing grows anymore. 
 Its also a nice thing, with that you get new quest, new friends and you become more powerful because 
 the creatures in this portion of the game are also a lot stronger. At the cities crafter you can 
 also customize your weapon to your character style so it would be a lot stronger.
  
  The other mode is for those that dont want to play the role-playing character, also for anyone-the 
 player versus player mode. You make a character that is already the highest level that it can be-level 
 20. You play 4vs4 or more in good made fights with other live persons. You can either play with 
 your guild on a tournament way or just with a random group of players. Playing either as a role-playing 
 character or on the player versus player mode is really totally cool, make sure you play it all 
 or you will not discover the whole potential of the game. Hundred of hours of game-play awaits 
 you in both sections.
  
  The camera perspective is a third-person view. With the option to zoom out and in with your mouse 
 you can either play your character with a firs-person or with third-person behind the back angle. 
 The better perspective seems to be the third-person way because its the best way to see the really 
 magic of the Graphics in Guild Wars that is really stunning. You attack with your primary or secondary 
 attack with your mouse or the hotkey. The real damage you will do is with the different skills, 
 so the weapon is a important, but not as the skills.
  
  You can have exactly have eight skills at a time. Every of the six characters have 150 unique skills 
 that you get with completing quest. The skills are icons on the bottom of the screen and all deliver 
 a beautiful graphic effect. The skills are the hart of the game so you will have to choose your 
 proper skills to defeat your enemys easier. With getting levels by killing enemys you get attribute 
 point and you use it to upgrade your self. Every of the six characters classes have its own attributes (a 
 warrior has strength, hammer mastery, etc. a elementalist have fire magic, water magic etc.) you 
 get the point. The higher are the attributes the better it is. If young start of the game you get 
 a chance to get a second profession-you can be warrior/elementalis or elementalist/warrior etc. 
 So with two profession is really easier because you have more attributes and skills, but still 
 always is in the front the first profession.
  
  Making a character is quick and easy, not like by World of Warcraft for instance. You wont be choosing 
 classes and profession for hours like in WoW, here you will be able to be quick. There are six 
 professions that all have its own unique style. Warrior, Monk, Elementalist, Mesmer , Ranger , 
 Necromancer. You can have a total of four character, role-playing or PvP. Yes, maybe it will be 
 a hard choice at first but having a total of four character you can easy delete one and make a 
 new one if you think that your choice was wrong. 
  
  Though you can just simple do not go to the role-playing and instead go direct to the PvP mode 
 that would be a good idea. Its good to know the game first , to wet you leg in the role-playing 
 fantasy level-up adventure. Guild Wars want you to experience both sides of it and you wont be 
 disappointing. Yes, firs you will be a noob like we are were, you wont have tons of gold, good 
 weapon but with time you will own them all. Practice makes perfect, so be sure to play it because 
 if you will miss the fun in role-playing portion you will be half satisfied with the game. The 
 weapons are not the only thing to sell or buy, there are also shield, other items like-different 
 dys (coloring shield) -but most of it you will hear selling weapons.
  
  Saving game in Guild Wars is not necessary, you cant save it. Its saves the progress every time 
 you log of and when you log in again you will start off in the nearest outpost, city where you 
 log loff. When being killed you think no i died, what now, thats no problem-you respawn at the 
 respawn gate. The penalty for that is nothing serious- just a temporary hit to your maximum health 
 and energy levels that goes away when you get back to town. The games loading times are seconds, 
 so if you are in a hurry you wont need to wait a long time. A nice thing in Guild Wars is the map, 
 you cant travel quicker with the map with just a slick on the outpost, city or whatsoever to get 
 there in second. The location of the city, town saves its self when entering it so quickness is 
 in this game. 
  With friends or just some other player you can form a guild. customize a unique insignia that all 
 your guildmates may proudly wear on their flowing cloaks. With the guild you create tactics how 
 to fight against opponents, becoming more and more stronger with time and also becoming the best 
 . Being a member of a guild also allows you to get the most out of the game's PvP elements. International 
 PvP competitions between guilds are already taking place, as players from all around the world 
 battle it out in multi-team skirmishes, pitting their best combinations of skills and tactics against 
 each other. When spells and counterspells are flying, as melee fighters close the distance with 
 ranged assailants and supporting forces, the action can get hectic and very exciting.
  
  Guild Wars just looks great as inside-gameplay as outside-the graphics are the best of the best 
 that could be in a role-playing game. The environment looks just super, the spells- abilities- 
 are looking so real that i can not tell you, you will have to play it. Its definitely worth every 
 penny. Again three cheers for the graphics, ArenaNet really does it! The game is incredible and 
 you will have to play it. So much to do, ton of tons of quest, weapons, looks and different item. 
 The game all-in-all is one of the best role-play game and the best role-play game for me.
  
  Graphics-Just outstanding, no other RPG could follow that graphics 
  
  Sound-I little softy, 
 it could be better, but whatever i like it!
  
  Value-So much to offer at that price, dont know why some games that dont offer half as Guild 
 Wars are for fee. Guild Wars just offers hundreds of hundreds hours of fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lionheart20j
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 20, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Some people look down on Guild wars because the world outside of towns are instanced so you dont 
 run into to other players like in other online RPGs... At first I would have agreed with them but 
 after I gave it some thought and thought about my time playing games like W. o. w.. I realized that 
 this actually made me like Guild wars more.
  
  I looked back on everything that anoyed me while playing wow... I hated when I was trying to do 
 a quest, ones where you need to get a certain number of drops off of monsters or kill a specific 
 number of a monster but had trouble doing it because of competition with a ton of other players 
 on the same quest.. it was very anoying
  
  I hated being ganked by rogues while minding my buisness and trying to quest, I hated being corpse 
 camped by higher leveled players because they thought it was funny.
  
  I hated listening to anoying general chat so I would turn it off in W. o. W. to quest in peace.
 
  
  All these things I no longer have to worry about... And really, The fact that I dont run past people 
 while questing anymore isnt really game breaking lol.
  
  But most of all 2 of the things i disliked most about other RPGs were
  
  having to find other 
 players to quest with for quests I couldnt solo - Guild wars lets you hire AI controlled Henchmen 
 to your group and all you need to do is share you exp/gold just like if you were in a normal group..
 
  
  Also I hated the endgame of other RPGs where all there really was to do was PVP when all your quests 
 were done but when you went to pvp you had to wait FOREVER to get other people to play with... 
 Guildwars doesnt have this problem... The wait for pvp is so fast its great...
  
  So yeah... Guild wars rocks... Its also free which is cool, though 15 dollars isnt that big of 
 a deal. lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSXSayian
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 20, 2006 3:29 pm PT
Review:  This game is fantastic. They finally come out with a mmorpg game with no monthly charges. I'll 
 start with the good. The graphics are really great with this game. You can never get bored of this 
 game. Hours of hours of endless quests makes u dont want to stop. Some bads now. I find that this 
 game sometimes leggs and u have to walk that extra 5 steps. There could be also some more classes 
 and what ticks me off is the missions. They never end. They take like an hour to complete. I give 
 this game a 9.7 because this game lives up to potential and is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battousai188
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 19, 2006 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Is it better than WoW? Is it better than FF XI? That is a hard question to answer, one big determining 
 factor is you dont have to pay to play. Guild Wars takes you the hero across a massive continent 
 with diverse terrain, and wide array of monsters to fight and people to interact with. Graphics 
 and scenery is stunning, sound melds well with game play and action, and the story a little on 
 the weak side but still solid, this game packs alot of bang for the buck into it. The game has 
 your standard style of characters you brute warrior, nimble rogue, your cunning wise sorcerer/es, 
 the healing monk, and the beast calling druid. One of the cool features about the game is you have 
 the choice of mixing to jobs together in the game, which allows you to explore a wide array of 
 ways to play through the game. But one of the most amazing features of this game is the incredibly 
 fast load and save time! Anyone looking for a solid MMRPG to play, and doesn't want to shell out 
 10 + dollars a month to play and having to dedicate more time to it than school and work just to 
 keep up then Guild Wars is the game for you. This is an online RPG that doesn't matter how long 
 you play at a time, from half hour at a time to 5-10 hours at a time you can always pick up where 
 you left off and not feel left behind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fable_fodder
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 19, 2006 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Well, where should I start? Nominated for game of the year by countless magzines as well as other 
 awards, this is a great game. I've played it for over 300 hours and I'm still playing it! Now that 
 have an expanison pack, it's gonna take me at least another 200 hours to be satisfied! With great 
 graphics, great gameplay including hundreds of quests, items and characters... WOW! It also has 
 an awsome story-line to it which will make you want to keep playing until you pass-out on the floor 
 because you're sleep deprived! I love this game and I hope they don't come out with a sequel for 
 it because if it isn't any good, it'll ruin the franchise and I really hope that alot of people 
 buy this game because I want them to know of all the happiness and excitment I've spent playing 
 this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WHRLWND
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 19, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  This game is probably the best computer game I have ever played. This game is highly addictive. 
 I come home and the first thing I do is get on Guild Wars. The game is absolutely great. The difficulty 
 does vary on the character you made and the level character you are fighting. Well you can make 
 up to 4 characters and you can use that character you made for the RPG or the PvP. The RPG consists 
 of a story mode and exploring a world map and the map is very big. The PvP is a player vs. player 
 type of game this is also fun but I so recommend that if you lag PvP will be hard. There are plenty 
 of people that play this game so if you want to find someone to play this game with that you know. 
 It is almost a sure thing that you find someone in your school or in your work place that has this 
 game or has played this game. Well anyway it goes it strongly recommend playing this game even 
 if it is just at a friends house. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eolfson
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 18, 2006 10:46 pm PT
Review:  This game has such an edge over World of Warcraft it's worth ditching WOW and buying Guild Wars. 
 I had WOW but couldn't waste my money at a game that was pretty fun that I didn't get to play to 
 much. One of the things that I didn't like about WOW was the Player Vs. Player combat. In Guild 
 Wars the PvP is the best multiplayer fighting around. The people in Guild Wars are also a lot friendlier, 
 and once your in a Guild (you'll get one in about 30 minutes of playing) you make new friends just 
 like that. The single player quests are about even with WOW, but the PvP is infinately times better. 
 And once you pay the $30 or $40 dollars you don' t have to pay another penny. Whether you have 
 WOW or not, but Guild Wars, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajykMatt
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 18, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  This may seem like your average MMORPG at first glance, but when you start to do quests, youll 
 notice your alone all by yourself in this huge huge world. but the thing is you can always group 
 together with real people in towns and travel together. It makes you interact with people in order 
 to get past the hard parts in the game. This game also has some of the most challenging and balanced 
 PvP gameplay yet. im definetly having fun with this game so far, and the price at only 40$ and 
 NO MONTHLY FEES... this is one of the most suprising games ive ever played. The graphics are very 
 detailed and the water and lakes in this game look very real, with real world and environment reflections, 
 you can almost taste the water. Definetly pick this one up even if you have a very moderate computer 
 and dial up, it can actually run dial up pretty well. so theres no reason to not get this game. 
 it plays as well as the 10-15$ a month games and looks as good or even better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklordq
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 18, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  This game looked good from movies but in reality is terrible.
  
  Very stiff confining gameplay that makes it a struggle to play.
  
  Boring because no interesting 
 weapons or upgrades, boring quests, boring stuff all around.
  
  Confusing, youll get a bunch of stuff like cloth and iron that you cant even use.
  
  Only good 
 graphics are from the spells that you cast in combat which tend to confuse you as well.
  
  This game may have been decent if not for the very confining strict movement and total lack of 
 items which this type of game should actually be based on.
  
  The regular graphics make it look worde then some playstation games and considering that it makes 
 you angry to play such a obvious lousy game.
  
  The 9.0 this game was given is way, way, way off the mark.
  
  Pass on this game and instead 
 count the strands of fibers in your carpet youll have more fun and wont be as frustrated. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gblanco
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 18, 2006 11:47 am PT
Review:  After playing this game for 2 weeks, suddenly, an error NetErr=58 appears and I have 2 weeks and 
 can't login to play and support can't solve it.
  It is some kind of problem with their auth servers.
  I think they should have servers in other 
 continents and not only in Europe.
  But, because I can't play it and there is no way to know if this is going to be fixed, well, there 
 is no way to recommend this game if you are in America.
  Why support does not solve it ?
  Because it is free to join to the servers ?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoavbd123
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  though sound isnt perfect the game in general is so good I have to give it a perfect 10.
  the graphics are really amazing
  the gameplay is so good and long
  the storyline is soo amazing
 
  i know i dunnu how to write reviews well but all i can say is that i really love this game and 
 i got addicted and if u like RPGS especialy MMORPGs and u dont own WoW because its too expensive 
 this is the game for you
  1 of the greatest hits ever made
  value is deffently 10 because its such a long game and its not expensive
  as i saw a review some 
 where if u read this u miss a lot of GUILD WARS time.
  as said before if u like RPG atleast check this game a bit
  im quite sure ud fell in love as 
 i have
  a perfect 10 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grolleman
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 18, 2006 6:53 am PT
Review:  Best thing about this game: there is no best class, profession or skill. Its like Johan Cruyff 
 said: every advantage has its disadvantage (well Cruyff put it the other way around, but it still 
 has the same meaning) . 
  
  Do not worry about finding that special weapon, do not worry about farming/grinding for hours (well 
 if you like to farm, you can of course do it) . You can just enter PvP with a premade, full armor 
 character right out of the retail box (though I would not recommend that without some practice 
 and familiarisation with the game) . But it is the concept and philosophy behind this that counts. 
 Not having to go through hours of playing before you are able to do something different. The whole 
 game is geared towards having fun when you are online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pruker
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 18, 2006 6:06 am PT
Review:  The Design. The Gameplay. The Graphics are amazing with huge character development. Guild Wars 
 tests your skill not the hours you spent playing on it, and at the end of the day your skill will 
 prove you worthy above the rest. The lvl cap is 20 which I say is just about right and enough time 
 to build your other characters up to be a powerful legion of your own. This game features great 
 about of PvP which gives you access into more powerful opponents which adds value to this amazing 
 game. I have to say that Guild Wars is one of my favourite online game of all time. You don't need 
 a credit card to pay monthly Guild Wars is one time payment and is all for free whenever you like 
 and wherever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Catsi
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 18, 2006 4:28 am PT
Review:  I've never played an online game in my life, seriously, no joke.
  That is until I picked up Guild Wars. To be honest, it was the NO SUBSCRIPTION FEES that made me 
 buy it, having never played online before, I didn't see what all the fuss was about.
  
  That was then, this is now.
  
  I'm hooked, completely hooked into this game. When I saw that 
 there was NO SUBSCRIPTION FEES I figured the game would be basic, short and the graphics would 
 be pretty weak. As for updates? Forget it, since you're NOT PAYING A SUBSCRIPTION why would they 
 update the game?
  Hell was I wrong. Turn Guild Wars graphics all the way up and you have come truely beautiful landscapes. 
 I've forgotten how many times I've just sat my character down and started at a waterfall, or watched 
 the sunlight sparkle from the ocean.
  You really need to stop running around, killing stuff and really appreciate this beautiful world 
 they've created.
  
  There are updates, they won't stop fiddling with it! :) We've even received a brand spanking new 
 area, new weapons, bosses, monsters, FOR FREE! And it was well done too.
  
  The game keeps strong with different innovations, keeping you on your toes and trying out new and 
 different strategies.
  You only have 4 character slots, but I would say I'm on my 8th character now. Delete an older character 
 who doesn't appeal to you, or you're tired of playing with and try afresh. I'm actually considering 
 buying a new account, so I can bring my slot count up to 8, giving me a much wider range to tinker 
 with.
  
  The music is pretty good, setting the tone very well. (yes there are even updates for that too!) . 
 However, if you're like me and prefer to listen to your own music while you game, you can turn 
 their music off, and run Realplayer, or media player in the background with no hassle whatsoever!
 
  
  The expansion pack is coming out in the next few months. As well as new skills, etc, we'll receive 
 two new professions: the Assassin and the Ritualist. And since you can mix professions up, how 
 about an assassion who raises the dead? Or throws fireballs? How about a Ritualist who has a pet 
 **** cat who disembowels his enemies? Or sets traps for people to plunder into? The builds are 
 endless, finally here is a game that is not dominated by WHAT LEVEL YOU ARE. This is about the 
 players skill, NOT the characters you play as.
  
  As far as I am concerned, this is a MUST have! You can meet some great people from all over the 
 world, forming massive guilds to go off and trample on the flower beds of opposing guilds. And 
 with the expansion pack coming out, this game is only going to get even more intense and extreme 
 as time goes on!
  
  Oh, did I mention... NO SUBSCRIPTION FEES!
  
  World of Warcraft... BAH! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnlivedPhalanx
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 21, 2006 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps the most intriguing part of Guild Wars is the online strategy itself, rather than any component 
 within the game. While Guild Wars is an involving and beautiful game with very little holding it 
 back, there do seem to be some areas in the game that feel simply underdeveloped and many of the 
 missions can feel rather dry in terms of not only story, but in action as well.
  
  Guild Wars is far from your typical massively multiplayer online game. Rather than charge a subscription, 
 or even content, the games online is 100% free with no strings attached. This would be expected 
 of a game with poor production values trying to scrape up some sales with a gimmick online service, 
 but this just isnt the case. Guild Wars has great production values on top of a free online service 
 that makes this game hard to not recommend.
  
  While the story is pretty clich and boring to an extent, it still sets up some pretty interesting 
 battles. A horde of beasts threatens the survival of man in medieval times (no this isnt another 
 Lord of the Rings games) . The beasts, named the Charr succeed in destroying the city of Ascalon. 
 So basically the entire game revolves around trying to defeat the Charr and rebuild the city, but 
 you quickly get distracted all over the place.
  
  On your adventures you will get to experience a full 360 on environments. From the beautiful landscapes 
 of Pre-Searing Ascalon to barren wastelands of Augury Rock, there is always something to look at 
 that is utterly beautiful. These environments are richly detailed and utterly rewarding to explore. 
 Not only are their riches tucked away, but also sometimes there will be a view farther into a canyon 
 or something that will be magnificent to look at.
  
  Guild Wars has a pretty unusual combat strategy system, one I havent found in any other online 
 game. You are limited to 8 skills or combat attacks. You can swap these out at any time while 
 in a town or outpost, but you cant in battle, which introduces the strategy element of finding 
 the best skills for an impending situation. This also sets up the group mechanic (as clich as 
 it might get, however.) of having a warrior, magician, healer, and an assortment of various minor 
 professions. While this has been a staple of medieval clichs since as far back as I can remember, 
 it is almost completely vital to have a group with those players in them.
  
  One of the things that I really liked about Guild Wars that sets it apart from almost every massively 
 multiplayer online role playing game is the fact that it gives your group a private copy of each 
 area outside of a town when you leave a town or outpost. This means that you will never be crowded 
 while playing or treasure running. It also means you cannot get any help from any other players 
 though. This mechanic works very well I think, because all you have to do to find more players 
 for the group is enter a town or outpost and add members, then head out again. Towns and other 
 common areas are places shared by every player, and cannot be private. Whenever your group leaves 
 or enters an area the entire team is pushed forward, even if they havent been keeping up with 
 that party. This allows a party to stay together.
  The music in Guild Wars is a series of orchestral masterpieces by Jeremy Soule that couldnt be 
 any better. Guild Wars supports Direct Song. com music distribution, which enables to add even more 
 music into Guild Wars and enhance your game even further! I think if there was one thing about 
 Guild Wars that was the most impressive, it was the music.
  
  The last part of Guild Wars that simply blew me away was the replay value of the game. I must have 
 done 3 or 4 characters to about midway in the game trying out different professions and such. This 
 game is nothing short of addicting! I cannot stress enough how many late nights I spent with this 
 game and loved every moment of it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StArKaStiK
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely marvelous. I love the story line even though its not the greatest, i still 
 liked it. The graphics are wonderful, even with a low end PC, you can probably run this with a 
 great resolution. I have had so much fun in this game, hours & hours of gameplay with a whole bunch 
 of friends
  There are a couple of flaws in this game however, but if you can look aside from some of the glitches 
 and bugs, this game is great. Plus its the only game i know of that can update the game for you 
 even while your playing!
  I definetly recommend it if you like mmorpgs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Changhyuk
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2006 8:39 pm PT
Review:  I usally dont play MMORPG, mostly play FPS , but i couldnt stand not buying this game. The in game 
 graphics is just outstanding. I has all my friends buy this game. IF you one of the ppl who dont 
 like MMORPG then u guys are jackass not to get this game. This game looks good but at the same 
 time you dont hvae to spend thousands of dollars spending on ur computer parts. You wont be diappoiinted. 
 IF u are disappointed u can slap me. : D i like the fact that there are guild wars and like u get 
 to win for ur country and all. great game=great apprciation and this game gets it all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foggle
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 3, 2007 9:14 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is much better than World of Warcraft, if only because you don't have to pay for it 
 every month. But that's pretty much it. There's only 20 levels, the PVP (Player vs. Player) is 
 practically broken, and the box art makes it look like it's being marketed with horny prepubescent 
 10 year old boys in mind.
  
  I have no problem with the controls and the graphics are quite good. The sound is uninspired but 
 not that bad. There's a big number of quests as well, but that's to be expected from this genre.
 
  
  Overall, Guild Wars is good for fans of MMORPGs, but not for anyone else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mirai_Trunks
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars does nearly everything right. Its free, immerisive, and you can basically get addicted 
 to it as much as World of Warcraft easily. The only flaws in the game are that when you play, you 
 need to log in then choose 4 players. You cant have 2 people playing different characters at the 
 same time. Other problems are slight graphical and sound problems. Some missions in this game are 
 just too hard, and the worst problem of all: You can only get up to Level 20. Period. But you can 
 still increase your stats. I found that one of the best parts of the game were the Identification 
 and Salvage kits. With Identification kit, you can possible geta rune (Which upgrades your stats, 
 if you get a rune of your class) or a gold weapon, which are super rare. Overall, Guild Wars wins 
 simply because of Free Online playabiity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maegnas
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2006 8:40 am PT
Review:  One of the greatest MMORPG's to come out ever. The best part, is that you don't have to pay a monthly 
 fee, so you don't end up spending more than 100 bucks a year on it. Amazing graphics for this type 
 of game, and the options and flexibility they offer with classes, spells, and items is just overwhelmingly 
 addictive. You can go through the vast world of Guild Wars with multiple characters of your choice. 
 The storyline is absolutely breathtaking and truly defines what you should look for in a MMORPG! 
 I would recommend this game to anyone seeking a great addition to their already busy life! lol. 
 Amazing game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Movieguy152
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 13, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  So you dont want to pay fifteen dollars a month for warcraft huh? Well Guild Wars isn't quite as 
 good but it is an excellent substitute. First of all Guild Wars is free online play which is why 
 I play it instead of warcraft. Second it is an awsome and huge world that is very well developed. 
 Anouther cool thing about it is how its and MMORPG that actually has some story line to it. Its 
 like warcraft in the way that you choose a profession and then enter the world but whats maybe 
 not quite as cool as it sounds, but still really cool, is how you can pick a second profession, 
 enabling you to say be able to beat down on your opponents with a sword and at the same time annihilate 
 them with magic. Its also more challenging to level up then warcraft is. So if you want to get 
 into MMORPG's, or love them but dont want to pay for them, then guild wars is a great game for 
 you. And even if you dont mind paying, aside from warcraft, this is most definitly the best MMORPG 
 to date. Believe me, I know, I've played or have most of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kh_dragon07
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 13, 2006 1:31 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best games ever! It has a wide variety of skills, professions, options. If you 
 have a computer and a fast working internet YOU NEED THIS GAME! THIS PVP IS THE BEST I HAVE EVER 
 SEEN! With over 250 skills TONZ OF BUILDS TO MESS AROUND WITH! and this isnt just america ITS ALL 
 OVER THE WOLRD!!!!!! The roleplaying in this game is also fun, you can team up with freinds to 
 find new skills and armor. This is a great game i have 500+ hours on it, trut me if you dont already 
 have WoW buy this its much beter! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarah-1988
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 13, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars faults are that there are definitely a lot of lag spikes. What I mean of lag spikes 
 are like, first your there then you end up back here. It could get you a bit confused. Guild Wars 
 might also be rather boring once you do everything, visited everywhere and beat every mission but 
 Im rather sure thatll take you a while. Another problem would be that if you dont level up and 
 you really want to get to a far away area but in that little area there are monsters twice your 
 level and you keep on dying could be rather annoying. 
  
  Despite the flaws Guild Wars have ups too. An up is that the scenario is wonderful. Person versus 
 Person (PvP) is awesome. The weapons you get to use are absolutely fascinating! The world you get 
 to explore is overly big! There is also something called the Wall of Heroes and in order to get 
 there you have to be really good at this game and fight your way up. Guild Wars also has something 
 like season change. Once a season is over in real life, a season will change in the game. (Or something 
 like that) 
  
  Guild Wars is probably one of the best games Ive ever played and Im well sure that youll like 
 it too. Guild Wars may not be suitable for all computers but Im pretty sure that most computers 
 can run it unless you have like a crappy 98 or a **** ME. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 13, 2006 4:23 am PT
Review:  Hi im gonna tell ya about the game guild wars.
  
  Sounds and music:
  Sounds are Ok, sometimes bit strange, but thats not the point, the point is that the music is repetitive, 
 always the same music, not much soundtracks.
  Music is Ok though.
  
  Gameplay:
  Best of all, its just perfect.
  You can either go to PVP system or just RPG quests.
  Withing 
 the RPG quests you have lots of quests too accomplish and you can fight monsters too earn money 
 and set up a guild.
  Within the PVP or GVG you can battle other players, parties or guilds.
  One good thing about 
 GW is that it has a big world for you too explore.
  
  Value:
  Good and very valuable, the game doesnt have monthly subscriptions.
  
  Variety:
  Good variety 
 of maps and monsters, weapons and classes.
  
  Online:
  Good and smooth, but you need lots of MB RAM and quite a decent computer.
  
  Graphs: 
  Good, 
 better than MO's like RYL.
  Not much too tell here.
  
  This was my review, cya all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bxela1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 12, 2006 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Great game worth the money you pay but i hate finding a good group because everyone is lazy and 
 i have to choose henchmen which are weak and always fail. And i also hate the loading because i 
 once got a group and went on a mission and it loaded and by the time it was done my team was far 
 away. Good amount of difficulty good for first time online players, Good amount of strategy, and 
 not too hard. Good way of chatting and the best part you only pay $50.00 for the game and no hidden 
 fees. My fave online game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghettochild18
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 12, 2006 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Guildwars is a vast and amazing game. The bang is in the buck my friends! Guildwars has beautiful 
 graphics, some of the best ive seen in this genre. Sure you can say EQ2 has amazing graphics, that 
 is if you like unstylized graphics that runs will on Nasa computers. Guildwars graphics far exceed 
 World of Warcraft's bland textures and childish style. The sound is great! The sounds in the game 
 are memorable and you will know when a spell has been interrupted or someone just brought a bone 
 minion to life just by listening. THE MUSIC IS AMAZING! It is composed by a renown composer from 
 England and it definately is worth listening to! I always have the music volume up and for a small 
 fee you can even buy a music add on pack to give plenty more songs to the playlist. 
  
  Okay, so heres the reason why it destroys alot of the other MMO's out there. Im not going to call 
 Guild Wars an "MMORPG" because its not so much the heavy grindage of regular RPGs. You start out 
 learning quickly how to play, and you feel like a very significant force against the evil that 
 opposes you very early in the game. You barely ever feel like a runt newbie that has to level up 
 to 40 before you can do anything cool. The game is huge right out of the package! The land is gorgeous, 
 and the monsters are awesome. Not to mention Chapter 2 is already coming out soon! This proves 
 that if you invest in Guild Wars, you wont be dissapointed because Arena net will constantly be 
 upgrading the game with new land, new characters, new skills, and new items, along with anything 
 else they want to suprise you with. 
  
  While I do think WoW is a good online game, i dont think its worth paying the monthly fee. The 
 absence of a monthly fee for Guild Wars allows players to play it freely without feeling coerced 
 into hours and hours of play to get their moneys worth for the month. But trust me, youll be playing 
 Guild Wars for hours and hours! Everything about the game is amazing, and all the little tiny flaws 
 that were complained about when the game released have already been fixed and changed in recent 
 live streaming updates! 
  
  The Economy is superior! Everywhere you go people are lookin for ways to get money. Everybody is 
 looking for something, wether it be the highly sought after Fissure of Woe armor set, or rare crafting 
 materials or anything! Guild Wars broke records with its sales and the amount of accounts that 
 have been created so you wont ever have a problem with lack of players! 
  
  PVP....... think about an RPG with PVP that is as addictive and as competitive as some of the top 
 first person shooters out there. This game is serious when it comes to the PVP section of the game. 
 Since Guild Wars focuses heavily on a brand new system of playing that revolves around skills as 
 opposed to high levels, and character beefiness, the PVP action is marvelous. A warrior who you 
 play with will never play like another warrior you play with. Everyone plays so differently from 
 one another, due to the skills and the way players think and stratergize using those skills, and 
 its that which makes the PVP so chaotic yet controlled at the same time. 
  The PVP and Guild vs Guild action is so competitive and serious but at the same time you can do 
 PVP and not be serious at the same time. This game is truely for everyone. 
  
  Playing Guild Wars can be one of the best experiences in MMO one can ever have, so do yourself 
 a favor and pick it up, you will not regret it! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: diord11
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2006 6:54 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a brilliant game but it unfortainately has one very annoying problem.
  When Guild Wars came out, it was brilliant- you could play it 24/7 and not get bored as there is 
 always something to do and -being a MMORPG- new people to meet but now, there is a new problem 
 to get past: the 'Anti Farming Script'. Let's call it the AFS. 
  During Guild Wars, people will spend all day 'farming'. This is basically going out and killing 
 monsters, enemies etc. for expirience, money and items; but Arena Net (the people who made Guild 
 Wars) spotted this and created the 'AFS'. This makes the items that the creatures drop not as useful 
 or valuable and the money that they drop less; say a monster before the AFS was created dropped 
 120 coins, but after the AFS was created and activated, the monster would drop, say, 70 coins. 
 This has become a big problem and sort of a let-down to Guild Wars gameplay.
  Fortunately, some people have found a way to counter this:
  The Guild Wars map is split up into 
 areas. If you enter one area and kill all the hostile creatures in it and enter another area, the 
 AFS will activate. But if you farm all the creatures in one area and map jump back to the town 
 you came from, the AFS will hopefully not activate and therefore, if you go and farm the same area 
 again, you will have better drops from the creatures, just like old times! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mx2-option
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2006 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Although no MMORPG was thought to be even able to compete against World Of Warcraft, Guild Wars 
 has definatly given it a run for it's money. This sleek middle-age styled MMORPG is a perfect game 
 for the MMO-noob to a MMO-god. The on-screen layout is simple but it's simplicity doesn't effect 
 it's awsomeness and radness. It has a great storyline which will leave you in shock. You can chose 
 from one of 6 primary professions and combine them with another which leaves the character's in 
 the game rarely similar to any other. There is only 1 word to describe this masterpeice, rad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Labut
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 11, 2006 3:08 am PT
Review:  This is my very first MMO game and so far I'm loving each and everything about this game. The PvE 
 is somewhat short but its storyline is definitely a great one. However, the best thing about this 
 game is their PvP concept. Very original and it really stick to what their game title. There's 
 three types of PvP arena, Competition or Team arena, the Tomb of Primeval arena, and Guild Battle 
 arena.
  
  Competition and Team arena are 4vs4 fast paced battle, the difference between both arena is that 
 competition offers a click of a button and letting the game arrange the team randomly, so team 
 strategy is base on luck here. In Team arena, however, you get to organise a proper team and discuss 
 whatever you bring in battle.
  
  The Tomb of Primeval arena is a place where people battle for the gods favour. The outcome of this 
 arena affects the PvE world. There are three continents fightiing for the gods favour, namely America, 
 Europe and Korea (two more continent will be joining the battle this year, Taiwan and Japan) . It 
 is an 8-man team battle and it offers different type of maps but the ultimate map would be the 
 Hall of Heroes, where people fight for the control of the Hall's for god favours.
  
  Guild battle is a place where two different guilds fighting each other for getting points in the 
 Guild ladder. It is the same as the Tomb where 8-man team battle to eliminate the opposing team. 
 But in order to eliminate the opposing team, the guild have to kill the opposing Guild Lord or 
 kill all the opposing guild member till their death penalty reached 60%. To make it more exciting, 
 guild must also battle for the control of flag. Whoever gets to control the flag for two minutes 
 will get a morale boost, which can reduce the death penalty received.
  
  This game definitely makes people think because with 100+ skills available in one character (you 
 get to have two professions in one character, one primary and the other secondary) and each skill 
 are different with its very own description but you only get to bring a total of eight skills in 
 a battle. So you have to think wisely what to bring before you go on further. All of the skills 
 are balance and each skill has a counter to it by another skill (thanks to Anet for keeping the 
 skill game balance) . Since a player can only get to a maximum level of 20 (you can get to lvl 20 
 pretty fast to in PvE or create a PvP char straight to lvl 20) , people wouldn't have to get worried 
 being ovethrown quicklybecause everyone is equal. Furthermore there is no uber items, weapons or 
 even armours, so no worries in that field.
  
  Foe people who only interest in PvE environment won't get dissapointed because GW offers many thing 
 in PvE. Many missons and quests are available in the PvE world. Players get to collect craft items 
 to get great looking armours (cosmetic wise only) and you can get into a high level battle area 
 like Sorrow's Furnace, Underworld and Fissure of Woe.
  
  With an MMO (CORP to be exact) providing no additional fees and good content and extremely exciting 
 PvP play is really worth the money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wedge9k
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 10, 2006 10:03 am PT
Review:  Up until now, I've avoided MMORPGs like this one like the plague. I don't want to have to keep 
 paying a monthly fee once I've bought a game to keep playing it. The only reason that I've even 
 looked at Guild Wars was due to the fact that there are no monthly fees. After only watching my 
 friend play for 3 hrs, I was hooked. This game has more to offer than most other games out there. 
 Its value is phenomenal with all of the content that you can explore in the game and ways to customize 
 your character.
  
  The graphics on this game are very good, but not demanding enough that people with 2-3 year old 
 PCs will be left out. Sometimes you just have to stop and take a look around at how good the visuals 
 are and the scenery. Once in a while I zoom in on a monster or something and am amazed at how detailed 
 and animated they are. The developer didn't cut many corners on this game to give us a lot of eye-candy.
 
  
  By far the best thing about this game is being able to play with your friends and create a guild 
 or join an existing guild with them. If you don't have any friends who play the game, go join a 
 guild and you'll soon have many. Being able to go out and work with a bunch of other players who 
 you are familiar with creates lasting memories and a worthwhile play experience. If you are into 
 competition, you and your guild can easily challenge other live players in the many PVP sections 
 of the game that are offered. This even includes PVP against teams on other continents for bonuses 
 for your region's servers to receive like entrance into elite areas and such.
  
  Another good quality to the game is that you can change most of your character's attributes almost 
 at any time. If you make your character strong in one type of magic... but want to change it to 
 another for an upcoming mission, you can. Later on in the game if you don't like the 2nd class 
 that you have chosen for your character you can also change that back and forth without loosing 
 any skills that you've acquired on the other classes.
  
  All that I can say is, this game is great. It has so much to offer that there will always be something 
 to keep you going. Best of all, NO MONTHLY FEE. I DON'T and WON'T play any other MMORPG's
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: graeme2005
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 10, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  I am a regular player of Guild Wars and I highly recommened this game to any person. I have divided 
 the review into Gameplay, graphics, sound, value and tilt, along with its score.
  
  Gameplay (9/10) : Fantastic ganeplay, this game really does bring to light some of the better aspects 
 in MMORPGS (massiavely multiplayer online role-playing games) . Guild Wars is divided up into P 
 v E (person versus environment, which is the standard option) and P v P (player versus player, 
 which offers competitions between players, this is recommended for advanced players only) . The 
 game itself has you playing for hours and hours on end, (which can lead to addiction problems but 
 thats not to tell) . You can team up with people already on the game to do missions and quests which 
 is a very good aspect, or if you're a billy-no-mates (like me) you can just hire Henchmen (AI controlled 
 characters that you have to share you're loot with) with surprisingly good instincts. It would 
 be nice if you could choose what skills they use. Thats the only reason I gave this game a 9 and 
 not a 10. the other reason is that if you do not take henchmen and you go out of a town or outpost, 
 you're likely to get owned (geeky, cyber talk for killed) within the first minute. And even though 
 the game has thousands of players playing it is no way laggy (connection blackouts or choppy movement) 
 which is amazing.
  
  Graphics (10/10) : If you have ever seen better graphics for a PC game (except Halo) , then please 
 let me know. But Guild Wars possesses the most sophisticated graphics I have ever seen in my short 
 lifetime. I have not yet seen any bad quality pictures in the game (except other people's clothes, 
 but thats hardly worth batting an eyelid about) .
  
  Sound (7/10) : Ok here is Guild Wars' weakpoint. Sound, music in different areas can get repetitive 
 and monotonous, however the sound of your staffs and the sound of spells redeems the problem of 
 background music. But thats ok, most fantastic games are usually lacking in sound, usually.
  
  Value (10/10) : I just could'nt believe my eyes. No monthly fee! and all small updates are done 
 automatically and they do'nt ned paying for! So, let me get this straight, a one time payment of 
 32.99 (about the equivelent of $49.99 US dollars) and thats it. No more paying, which gives the 
 value of this game the thumbs up.
  
  Tilt (10/10) : Hard to describe. Yes the game does have a different storyline to what I thought 
 would happen, however you should probably expect what will happen in each mission you do, though 
 not all the time. Therefore it gets the well deserved 8 out of 10.
  
  So here's my review on Guild Wars. Truthfully, get this game, I assure you will not be disappointed 
 by what it has to offer
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brokensaint058
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 10, 2006 8:30 am PT
Review:  One of the best games I've played for quite a long time. Not only the game play is simply stunning 
 but overall performance and gaming style do their work nicely as well. I remember back in teh days 
 I only started the game, henchmen were bit disappointing due to their common lack of AI and many 
 bugs I've encountered while playing. But thanks to so many great updates this one kept me playing 
 for a very long time. It's a great game for everyone who loves MMO RPG's or even to those who are 
 less familiar with them (makes a great start) . Seems that one thing i can do now is just keep gaming 
 and waiting for it's first huge expansion to come out ;)
  
  I'm out, peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guba2004
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 10, 2006 5:05 am PT
Review:  After about five minutes of playing this game I was completely bored. It offered me no new experiances, 
 the appearance and overall presentation of Guild Wars was completely monotonous. As I explored 
 new levels, I discovered that the PvE part of the game had extremely boring and the quests matched 
 the seemingly very similar enviornments (Kill a mob, return to guard or person) . The unfortunate 
 part about this is that skills and abilities are gained through questing, also many times these 
 quests were almost impossible to complete solo, making for extremely long levels. Soloing is not 
 an option in this game.
  From character creation (there were very few ways to customise your character, they all basically 
 were the same height costume etc) . Every monk looks like every other monk in the game, apart from 
 different armor. Most of the characters just look like bad anime cartoons. 
  Even if I chose to skip the PvE content and immediatly create a guild wars pvp character, I would 
 start with no initial abilities, because all of the skills, combat arts, or spells chosen from 
 the abilities that you attain throughout the PvE part of the game. Therefore, the choice between 
 PvE and PvP is pointless, because without the PvE aspect you will be a complete gimp in the actual 
 guild wars. 
  I would not have bought this game if i had read a review from someone who had actually played other 
 MMORPGS, as a veteran Daoc and eq player for more time than id like to admit, id like to say that 
 this game is an MMORPG-Lite game. Paying 15$ a month for a game is worth it if it does not suck.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: N2TheFlames
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 9, 2006 7:09 pm PT
Review:  I was looking for a good MMORPG to play, but never got one because I didn't want to pay monthly 
 to play a game. When I found out this one had no monthly fee, and the reviews here were overwhelmingly 
 positive, I had to try it. Most of the reviews you see here are dead on. I've been playing for 
 about 6 months now. A new update is coming this year with new characters to play and new areas 
 to explore. You make a lot of good friends also, as you have to team up with others to complete 
 missions and some quests. The teamwork aspect of the game really does pay off when you complete 
 some of the harder missions together, all knowing it can't be done alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Applemanmoo
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  SPETK SPOCK SPURK SPETK SPOCK SPURK SPETK SPOCK SPURK SPETK SPOCK SPURK SPETK SPOCK SPURK SPETK 
 SPOCK SPURK SPETK SPOCK SPURK SPETK SPOCK SPURK SPETK SPOCK SPURK SPETK SPOCK SPURK SPETK SPOCK 
 SPURK SPETK SPOCK SPURK SPETK SPOCK SPURK SPETK SPOCK SPURK SPETK SPOCK SPURK SPETK SPOCK SPURK 
 SPETK SPOCK SPURK SPETK SPOCK SPURK SPETK SPOCK SPURK SPETK SPOCK SPURK SPETK SPOCK SPURK SPETK 
 SPOCK SPURK SPETK SPOCK SPURK SPETK SPOCK SPURK SPETK SPOCK SPURK SPETK SPOCK SPURK SPETK SPOCK 
 SPURK SPETK SPOCK SPURK SPETK SPOCK SPURK SPETK SPOCK SPURK SPETK SPOCK SPURK SPETK SPOCK SPURK 
 SPETK SPOCK SPURK SPETK SPOCK SPURK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phazor58
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 6:45 pm PT
Review:  How can you find a better game? The graphics are close to perfect, free online multiplayer, huge 
 quest system, solo or multiplayer options for adventuring... I could go on... and I will.
  
  There are six different classes. Necromancer, ranger, warrior, monk, mesmer, and elementalist. 
 You can have one as a primary skill, and another as a secondary. Your secondary can be changed 
 once you get deep into the game, and can be changed to any of the professions, at any time, after 
 completing a quest for each.
  
  Each class has around 50-75 skills (didn't count myself, I was too busy playing) . There are also 
 primary quests, and side quests. Primary quests advance you in the game, opening up new cities 
 and quests. Side quests give you experience, items, money, and skills. The max level is 20, but 
 even with this low value it still takes awhile to get to. Once you get to 20, you probably still 
 haven't finished the game, and you can do Player vs. Player battles. You can also join guilds at 
 any time, each with their own cape, and possibly even a guild hall. Guilds can also take place 
 in Guild vs. Guild battles. There is also a highscores ladder that ranks the top 500 guilds.
  
  This is a must buy for anyone who plays MMORPGs. It's only around $40 to buy the game, and 
 it's free from there on out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniperz89
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  from my point of view, guild wars delivers a massive amount of gameplay juz not from equipment and 
 rune combining. you can also make hats, tats wat i heard and there are many sorts of skills i mean 
 like huge amount!. one job is said to have at least over 100 skills to learn. tats really great and 
 the game mainly focuses on PvP. where all lv20s pit themselfs in three modes: competition arena, team 
 arena and tombs of the primeval king. with tat u can meet up players randomly and help each other 
 to get past few rounds in the 3 modes. u might lose to skilled players so wat im here to say is 
 you had to gain experience to make urself skillful in matches. and the pve part is nice, i din choose 
 it since i played a lot of pve in other mmorpgs. in pve, u make lv1 and raise it till lv20 with eq's 
 from the exploring parts and stuff. and generally guilds are created with golds. u can even meet 
 up ur friend online and talk a lot. or play some emoticons around the towns/outposts if ur bored. take 
 a chat if u need. currently the most artistic mmorpg goes to guild wars. spend ur time well... if 
 ur bored of guild wars, tats probably ur mood. so rest few days and take ur adrenaline rush back 
 in game! get in guild battles which is more intense! 8 vs 8 is very good plus you have npcs helping 
 you. juz as big as a war. once u beat a foe guild u can choose to meet another to prove ur one of 
 the guild with skillful players. well tat's all i gotta say. choose guild wars and remember to play 
 it nice. for memory informations, it cost around 1.2-1.4 gb for the whole good ol' guild wars. so 
 its definitely a saver and a great game overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sia15998
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 8, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. The graphics are awesome. The controls are not that hard to understand. Possibilities 
 are endless. Unlimited hours of game play. What else would a guy want? But the down part is that 
 if your computer does not even have the recommended specifications, you might have regretted buying 
 it. Another thing to consider is about the character creation screen. What I did was- I studied. 
 In the character creation screen, you get to choose what type of character you want (Ranger, elementalist, 
 ect.) . I recommend that you read about them beforehand. Before you start larger missions, you have 
 the opportunity to choose a secondary type. I did my part by studying, found a great combination, 
 and am a Ranger-Necromancer. I can fire arrows long range while summoning the dead to defend me 
 at close range- he he he. So if you do your part and study, it can save you hours of frustration 
 and many lives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pixiesboy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 8, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  I think the word that describes this game best is; whoa! This is a magnificently well put together 
 game, that has kept me addicted for weeks on end, the effects are splendid, and unlike a certain 
 game made by a certain blizzard, are realistic and enjoyable to watch. The gameplay is built around 
 team play, and this works amazingly well in PvE and PvP. The game encourages you to play with other 
 players online and this is far more rewarding than playing with the available henchmen, although 
 you wont gain as much in the way of items and gold. The sound effects are also a great feature, 
 they've been recorded and thought out well by the developers. Also special mentions go to; the 
 storyline, which is brilliant, it sticks to the theme of the game and doesn't leave you wondering. 
 Secondly the monthly fees.... hang on... there aren't any!!! Yes that alone makes the game well worth 
 buying for MMORPG fans, and it may even convert a few peeps aswell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thynno
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 7, 2006 3:30 pm PT
Review:  The graphics performance of Guild Wars are just fantastic, I'm using FX-5500, DVI output, it's 
 just relaxing scenery there and falling leaves or snow, aah.. just awesome world to explore.
  I've been playing for 4 days now, I'm at level 6. Now I want to form a Guild with my friends from 
 work. Yay!
  I never really like ancient, kingdom or medieval themed games, but this one is pretty interesting, 
 there are many many features in the game that make me forget that I don't like this kinda theme. 
 This is basically hack and slash kinda game, emphasizing on the skill sets of each characters. 
 The online environmet makes this game even a pimp. Get your copy and meet me there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rabbit_hack
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 7, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a CO-RPG (Cooperative Rope Play Game) and so comparing it to WoW or FFXI or any other 
 game of that caliber in regards to storyline or grind is a waste of time. (Note that I will use 
 other games in other categories to try and relay a specific theme for you) .
  
  Key: 
  GvG = Guild vs Guild
  PvP = Player vs Player
  PvE = Player vs Enemy (a. k. a. PvM player vs monster)
 
  FFXI = Final Fantasy XI
  EQ2 = Everquest 2
  
  The music and graphics are very good for a game of this caliber; however my personal taste would 
 have been to have more musical scores for each area or zone rather than decidedly creating generic 
 tones for towns and regions.
  
  The overall gameplay for this game will vary with your likes and dislikes. If you like the high 
 level grind of FFXI or the solo ability of EQ2 I warn you fairly, this game carries neither. The 
 level cap is 20, and while each class (there are currently 6 as I write this review) has approximately 
 75 skills (totaling 450 overall) you can only use 8 on the battlefield. Additionally please DONT 
 make a purchase thinking youll be PvPing professionally off the back because thats not true at 
 all. In order to intergrade the PvP with the PvE element for this game you must unlock skills using 
 PvE characters before you can use those skills in PvP (not mentioning weaponry components, runes, 
 and other accessories) . The battle system has an action-RPG flair (similar to Segas Phantasy Star 
 Online minus the click to swing action) and provides relatively quick level gain (which provides 
 common PvErs something to work on aside from skill acquisition as well as eliminating the level 
 grind of traditional RPGs for the sake of PvPing) .
  Also note that gameplay may and usually will change to meet standards of the PvP community as to 
 not allow the massive skill spam of the past. Many a player has a problem with this actually. The 
 changing of skills to meet those standards sometimes becomes a pain but not a hindrance since it 
 also equally affects PvE.
  
  Sadly for replay value the novelty of the game will run thin if you intend to play one or the other 
 (or in some instances even both) because with a rather disinteresting storyline and very few PvP 
 arenas, the game fades into repetition. Hopefully Arena Net will decide to put some more serious 
 consideration to the storyline content, which I believe will ultimately raise it much more.
  
  Across the board, if you have friends who also like playing the game it becomes fun to play 
 with them. Using a map to teleport eliminates having to have a mount or long hours of running 
 from place to place. Its a nice way to pass the time, especially for the casual gamer, but this 
 is not a heavily built RPG with over 10000+ hours of exploring as is usually the case for most 
 online RPGs. The premise of the game is to get people to play PvP in a cooperative manner while 
 using the PvE portion as a means of acquisition and in some cases a break from the rigors of the 
 PvP/GvG experience and even practice.
  
  The game is for you if you have some time on your hands and like to play something now and then. 
 The game is NOT for you if you like the usual high level heavily engaging RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arimar666
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 7, 2006 8:43 am PT
Review:  I have been playing Guild Wars for about a year now and it is a great game. This game focuses on 
 the two main "genres" of an MMORPG, PvP (Player vs. Player) and PvE (Player vs. Enviroment) . No 
 other mmorpg that i've played had a lot of hype about PvP play except for Guild Wars. 
  
  As you can tell by the name of this game guilds are a big part in the foundation. Guild support 
 is great . If you make a guild you have the option of making a cool customized cape and purchasing 
 a Guild Hall for Guild vs. Guild Battles.
  
  The staff in this game really try to help you and make the game as fun as possible. For holidays 
 developers sometimes add special Holiday Quests and decorate major towns and cities to have a holiday 
 feel. Customer service is great also. I played EverQuest for 8 years and to get a response to a 
 problem sometimes it would take a month to be reached. In Guild Wars it took me 8 hours. 
  
  And all of this is free. One payment of $49.99 (price of game at Best Buy) and your covered. 
 No subscription fees. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedPanther1990
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 7, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay is verry good. You can play all alone, with friends, or with cpu controlled 
 bots. To go further in the game, you have to play big quests called "missions". When you don't 
 know what to do further, just click all the quest you can in the latest city you went, and do the 
 Primary missions. These will take you further into the game. The other quests are nice to for leveling 
 and getting some nice items, but are not neceserry to go further in the game.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are really cool, the only minor is that in interactive movies, the speaking 
 people don't reale interact, there mouth doesn't move. The rest is verry good, and verry realistic. 
 When you have a cape, the cape will move realistic, and will folow the law of gravity and wind.
 
  
  Sound: The sounds are ok, but not that cool. Now they are making some other sounds for the city's 
 and mission, but before it was always the same sound for 1 mission or 1 city.
  
  I think the game is a verry good game for people who don't have much time for playing, because 
 from you desktop into the game only takes a sec wich is verry good for a game like this. The only 
 thing is that there are some loading times, but these outweigh the nice grapics and gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00yadalleej
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 7, 2006 2:44 am PT
Review:  I think that is the ultimate on-line role-play game. It may be expensive to buy at first, but its 
 well worth it. Sucks to pay monthly anyway like some other role-play on-line games. But with this... its 
 free! No monthly pay! Forever and ever!
  
  The graphics and the sound effects are amazing, everyone is friendly and this game is highly addictive. 
 I cant stop playing it. RP gamers should all get this game. I recommend all people to buy this 
 game. The only thing that comes close to how bad this game is, is that you can't stop playing it.
 
  
  Basically get this game!
  
  If your not a RP gamer, and you want to try one, this is one is best to try first. Im sure if you 
 try this, you wouldn't want to buy anything else anyway. But when I got this game, I wasn't a big 
 fan of those types of games, so wasn't that thrilled about getting it. I was like "40 quid! dad... you 
 should of got something else". So seeing as he spent that much on 1 game, I thought to please him, 
 ill install it and play next morning. So I did. Next thing I remember I was hungry and it was dinner 
 time.
  
  So Basically... get this game!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vornagar
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jan 6, 2006 9:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is horrible. Do not waste fourty dollars on this game like I unforunately did. The only 
 aspect of this game that is not horrible are the graphics. Characters, enviroments, spells, everything 
 looks beautiful. Although this game is free to play online unlike many MMORPG the online gameplay 
 is worth the price which is nothing. The absence of a high level takes out the journey to get a 
 high level. All characters and equipment are the same leaving the game dull and bland. PVP is a 
 bore. Jumping into a battle and casting a spell every 10 seconds is not fun. I do not see how this 
 game got a 9.2 from Gamespot. Please do not waste $39.99 on this game like I did. EB games won't 
 let me return it now and im out fourty dollars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawarrior030
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 6, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be one of the coolest games ever made. The graphics are awesome and the people 
 you meet are really cool. In the game, you join a guild, meet new people and basically go all out 
 and demolish monsters You have a great time and its not like most games where its so easy you cn 
 just do anything and get bored. Mission here can take up to 2 hours and you may even fail! Try 
 that for hard. When you geet to the end of the game, your guild battles for bragging rights and 
 s pot on the websites's ladder, or standings. You have to try this gme out, you have no reason 
 not to! You should definetly try it out!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aesoprockdjx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 5, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  I absolutely love this game. It is amazing. It looks fantastic and has great gameplay. Not to mention 
 it has free monthly gameplay. I only have a couple complaints about the game and the great things 
 about this game definitely overpower the things I dont like. However, there are a couple things 
 I think could make Guild Wars better. For one, I wish the majority of the time spent playing wasn't 
 in an "instance". I would prefer a world where you see player characters just about every where 
 you go. Instead if you want to play with other players you have to join a party to go in the instance 
 together. Also there seems to be limited different armors where most characters look a lot alike. 
 And last the level cap is a little low. These are just minor things and the game is still amazing 
 nonetheless. In my opinion, if these little things were fixed the game would be perfect. The pvp 
 is some of, if not the best in any game out right now. It will keep you playing GW for a long long 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhannguyen1990
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 5, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Hello, i was first the almost best guild wars fan ever, but now, i am trying to destroy the game 
 FOREVER! the reason is that the UPDATES are bad. you cannot enjoy yor personal freedom. When i 
 play i KNOW that someone is WATCHING me. do you know why i know this? the answer is that when i 
 do something that is amusing or fascinating, they would NERF (fixing someting to give a low amount 
 of fun. my definition) it. one of the thing is listed below:
  
  CAUSE AND EFFECT IDEA. This is going to be a challenge to you uneducated persons out there. please 
 do not view this as an offense.
  
  Underworld Farming Nerf Story:
  
  THE CAUSE: i played in underworld and was being watched by a mentally challenged (i guess. they 
 are all like that) GM (Game Master) . BEFORE the big NERFING update, i got like 6 ectoes in one 
 run and now it is like 2 ectoes per run. i found it interesting since ALOT of people have FISSURE 
 amorr already. It must of been the GM's. They must have gotten all the fissure armor items before 
 we could. that is why they nerfed it. THEY DON'T CARE ABOUT US! it is not fun!
  
  THE EFFECT: my friends played his game like 24/7 and after this big NERFING update, they all QUIT! 
 the reason is this game is unfair!
  
  NOTES: remeber when you click "B"? you see a gulid wars battle chart, where you can view people 
 fighting? Well, this is a method of the GM's to see you without you noticing.
  
  ROLE PLAY OF THE IDEA (before the BIG NERFING UPDATE) : like this. you are a SOLO monk in UNDERWORLD 
 and you are walking around getting ectoes fro your armor. well that is a dream that could come 
 true, but now it couldn't because the selfish GM's nerfed it. they made it feel like you are in 
 a place trying to get a SCIENCE FICTION armor that doesn't exist! ok, time to get back to the "walking 
 in the underworld thing." Ok, you are walking in UNDERWORLD and you got like 4 ectoes. you would 
 probably say YAY! in about 11 more runs i could get 44 ectoes for my fissure amor! YAY! Well guess 
 what, they are going to nerf you because they saw you get that much ectoes, and your dream of that 
 fissure armor just went down the trash can.
  
  thank you if oyu ever read this post. and quit guild wars and get CIVILIZATION  
 at least it doesn't drain your life!!!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thisissayantan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 5, 2006 1:39 pm PT
Review:  I started playing Guild Wars eight months back. After spending a week researching on which profession 
 to choose, I settled on an E/R ( a combination of a fire elementalist and ranger, a combination 
 that was not the best of choices as I later came to realize) . Since then, I have played and maintained 
 eight characters (all max) across two accounts. Guild Wars has been a very memorable experience -- 
 a journey that I want to share with my fellow readers. Hopefully it will be of some use in throwing 
 some insight into this remarkable game.
  
  Guild Wars has 2 distinct elements -- the PvE and the PvP. PvE is where you fight against the environment 
 following a rather cliched story-line. And PvP is where you pitch your skills against other human 
 avatars across the globe. And what's remarkable is that you can be an elite in one form and a complete 
 noob in the other. In many ways being an expert in PvE is a prerequisite for being really good 
 in PvP and not vice versa. In PvE, you unlock certain skills, runes and weapons which is not otherwise 
 available to your PvP only character.
  
  Guild Wars begins by asking you to create an avatar (either for PvE or PvP only) and choose it's 
 primary profession from a list of six professions (elementalist (E) , ranger (R) , warrior (W) , monk (Mo) , 
 mesmer (Me) and Neromancer (N) ) . The choice of primary profession determines your character's role 
 in the game and dramatically alters the game-play. What's interesting is the remarkable balance 
 between the professions. There is no "best" profession in Guild Wars -- there is only the better 
 player who plays his/her profession the best. I have beat the game with all six professions and 
 have enjoyed them all. So you can choose to be anything and really enjoy being it. Whether you 
 like to be a hard-to-kill tank like a warrior, a high area of effect (AoE) damage dealer like a 
 fire nuker, an interrupter and anti-caster like the mesmer, a quick dmg-dealing spiker like the 
 air elementalist, a healer, protector or a smiter like a monk, a trapper, interrupter or spiker 
 like a ranger, an SS, MM or Battery as a necromancer -- is a matter of personal choice. And since 
 each class of people in Guild Wars consider themselves the best.... (ahem) ... 
  
  After creating the "New You" -- it's time to begin your journey through the beautiful lands of Tyria 
 following a short and rather cliched storyline. You begin in the beautiful world of Ascalon on 
 the brink of an invasion from the deadly Charrs. You begin as a noob hero with no skills or accomplishments 
 and try to gain both by completing a series of quests and tasks of varying difficulties and challenges. 
 Soon it's time to choose a secondary profession to complement your first. (You can change your 
 secondary profession at a later part of the game if you wish) . You can then leave the pre-searing 
 Ascalon and continue with the next, more important part of the story -- Tyria after the Charr invasion 
 -- after Ascalon has been ravaged by the great searing (or burning) . The story-line takes you through 
 a beautiful series of diverse environments from the ravaged, dry Ascalon to the snowy Shiverpeaks, 
 the crystal deserts, the slimy Maguuma jungles and the blazing, volcanic Fire-islands. Amazing 
 graphics and a very engaging musical score (with brilliant sound-effects) will keep you heartily 
 entertained throughout this long journey. 
  
  Each profession has a set of area of expertise that you can specialize on. Killing monsters and 
 completing quests gives you valuable experience (XP) that helps you to level up and invest some 
 newly gained attribute points in the area of expertise that you favor -- thus making your hero 
 more powerful in that speciality. What's nice about GW is that you can change your area of expertise 
 within a profession at will depending on your mood or choice by re-investing the attribute points 
 you won by questing. And this adds a very dynamic element to the game. The more attribute points 
 you invest in a speciality, the more powerful you become in using skills of that speciality. 
 
  
  What's important to note is that GW allows you equip only 8 skills at a time -- this adds to the 
 challenge of the game. Towns and outposts are neutral areas where you socilaize with other heroes 
 and form your questing party. This is also where you choose the eight skills that you think you 
 will need for that quest and set your attributes accordingly. Once you leave town, your party gets 
 a local copy of the map for the area and your eight equipped skills are all that you have with 
 you. So a well-balanced party is very important for successful questing.
  
  A very important aspect of Guild Wars is farming.. You farm for better weapons, for money and materials 
 to buy better armor, for runes and upgrades to make you more powerful, and finally for dyes which 
 gives your armor the distinct looks. All these customizations add great diversity to the game. 
 You would rarely see an avatar looking exactly like you roaming around the towns. 
  
  The amount of game money and energy that people spend on looking "cool" is really remarkable. This 
 is the rather frivolous aspect of Guild Wars -- and the game developers have really exploited our 
 deepset desires to the best of their abilities You might be a geeky, be-spectacled nerd with a 
 huge beer-belly in real world but your Avatar must look like Conan, or Alexander or any Greek hero 
 or the beautiful fighting princesses, the amazons that one keep reading about in fairy tales. And 
 why not?? The avatars really look cool and have amazing animations -- the female characters look 
 enchanting and the males are smart, slick and muscular. Nothing beats Guild Wars with regards to 
 looks of characters. Take a look at the screenshots at any Guild Wars fansite, if you dont believe 
 me. Every body wants an armor from the Fissure of Woe -- many consider this the ultimate achievment 
 in their PvE existence.
  
  And finally there is the PvP element in Guild Wars. This clearly puts GW in a different class of 
 it's own. And this is is the true essence of the game -- note the name "Guild Wars". A Guild is 
 a community of peeps under the same banner. It's like a club. Guild Wars is about the war between 
 the guilds -- the ultimate PvP challenge. Beating the environment is fun. But nothing is more enthralling 
 than getting the better of a group of human opponents in a pitched battle. Who is the best? People 
 from all over the globe take part in great PvP challenges be it in GvG or the epic battles in the 
 Tomb of Primeval Kings to prove their dominance. The PvP battles are fast paced and elite -- you 
 can feel the addrenaline rush through your body as you "kill" the enemy. This is the never-ending 
 part of Guild Wars and probably makes it one of the best games ever made.
  
  This does not mean that Guild Wars is the perfect game. The game lacks in several aspects. Firstly, 
 the game-developers have very cunningly avoided the use of any flying objects. All monsters are 
 ground creatures -- no flying harpies or vampire bats to trouble you. The camera movement is linear 
 -- you cant look up and down -- you always look straight. This makes gameplay easier and less realistic 
 at times. Also, you dont fall off cliffs or edges -- you just hit invisible walls that prevent 
 you from doing so. A duelling club, where people can challenge each other in 1v1 combat would be 
 an interesting addition to the game. Also, introduction of mounts would make the game more diverse. 
 At times one gets the feeling that the developers have given more importance to the aesthetic aspects 
 of the game than the actual gameplay. But then, GvG and PvP by themselves are unique experience.
 
  
  In spite of the above, Guild Wars is definitely a game to buy and spend a lot of time with. It 
 is definitely one of the most obsessively, involving games with a remarkably acute and evolving 
 competitive element. It's time now to wait for a second chapter with new professions, weapons, 
 armors and challenges adding new dimensions to this vastly entertaining game. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: planetsimpson
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 5, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  This is game is simply amazing. After playing WoW for many months Would have to give the gold medal 
 to Guild wars. The gameplay is awesome and fast paced, and the game looks and sounds beatiful. Defiantly 
 a great bargain as it is a MMORPG with no monthly fees. the cherry on the cake is the fact of how 
 awesome PvP combat is after your done the main story portion of the game. However, it will always 
 continue, adn never get old. 
  
  (excuse this, i need 100 words) :
  
  asfh jhaflsnk asfhnlk sdhf jkhf hjfska jklhdf kjlhf ljkh kjh jh alkfsd kjdfhas kasdjfh khsdf asdklfh 
 laksdfjh askdfjh laskdjfhlkjash asdfh kjasdhfkj asdhfkj hafdjksh fjadfsh jkdfah jd hjdh jdhjkash 
 jdj fhdj dhj kdhskl hsdkjlh jkldshlk jdjk jadhk jldhajkdh hak jahj ajh jka blah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vul52988
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 5, 2006 8:56 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is probably the best MMORPG to date, for many reasons. The first, and most obvious, 
 is the total lack of annual fees. Once you purchase the game, it's yours to play as you like.
 
  Another somewhat overlooked fact is that, for as amazing as the game looks, the minimum specs 
 are surprisingly low. Almost anyone with a somewhat up-to-date computer can play it fine. Of course, 
 to see those screen-shot quality pics you need the latest gear, but what game doesn't require that?
 
  All in all Guild wars is just an awesome game. It's fun, fast, and surprisingly addicting. This 
 one comes highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reguile
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 4, 2006 11:44 pm PT
Review:  It sucks, got boring after a few days. Seriously. Highest level 20, you choose up to 8 boring skills 
 and you go out on missions by YOURSELF, or in a party with other people or NPC's. Only fun thing 
 is drawing on the compass, that are not appropriate. Sure, its free monthly, but Im sure there 
 is a free mmorpg thats even better, somewhere out there. After the spot where the prince dies, 
 everything goes downhill. But there are some good sides, I guess, like finding areas on the map. 
 I dont like the fact that its not MMO when you go on a mission, or repetitive gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seshkii
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 4, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Did you try and play this game for a few months? I did and I think this game is far worse then 
 World of Warcraft! Ofcorse WoW wasn't that great either! I think someone just need's to make a 
 good RPG, I meen come on Maple Story is better then Guild Wars! I really think they should of alteast 
 put a few more classes then those crappy old ones, I meen come on be creative make some new cool 
 classes! I thought the only fun part of guild wars was PvPing and that wasn't even that good! There 
 is far by better games then this god damn game! I can't belive I wasted 50$ on this crappy game! 
 ARENA NET you could of done better....... alot better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deetso
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 4, 2006 1:28 pm PT
Review:  I have been a loyal fan of neverwinter and baldurs gate and have been quite hesitant to join any 
 sort of MMORPG. World of Warcraft was intriguing but of course the price kept me away.
  
  Then there came Guild Wars. This game has it all. The customizable characters with tons of weapons, 
 armor, skills, magic... everything. And the online element adds quite a bit to the game- of course 
 there are some dumb kids- but they surprisingly do not seem to bug me- Ive only muted 2 other players- 
 for the most part its quite a nice enviornment. 
  
  As for the "MMO" part- I like the fact that you can take henchmen if you need to- the game is way 
 to hard (if not imposssible) by yourself- but sometimes I dont care for trying to find a group 
 to go hunting with. Im not quite into the Guilds- the only one I have joined had a cool guy- who 
 made me want to join and then the rest were just total tards- not worth my time. I enjoy finding 
 other people like me who just want someone to go out and do the job of a mission and not **** about 
 all sorts of little things. Getting a good group makes this game awesome- going out with henchmen 
 make this game awesome too!
  
  I love this game- its quite addictive- I easily spend an entire day just doing one more mission 
 or side quest or just some farming... dang... what am i doing here- gotta get back to the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pault17
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  I thought that the numbertalk would get you. Guild wars is an amazing game to play, it will only 
 get boring if you are a complete retard and don't know how to use a computer, and if that is true 
 and you are reading my review, pat yourself on the back and go drool for a bit. The learning curve 
 is medium and if you get it I highly recommend reaching level 7 before accepting the mission that 
 says that you might not come back. the graphics are amazing, even with the low settings that my 
 card has. The men are hunky, if I was into that sort of thing (I'm straight as they come) and the 
 women almost make me wanna pleasure myself during the game (never masturbated in my life) The battle 
 system is amazing if you're a mouse guy like me, just click on the skill on your bar. Or you can 
 just use the keyboard entirely, without mouse controls. A useful tip, hold control and click on 
 things in your interface, it also shows all the enemies in the world, and all the player controlled 
 characters in a town. Holding alt shows all the NPCs in the world and town. althought the lvl cap 
 of 20 seems a tad low, expect it to rise with the coming expansion, and thats wat makes the game 
 better, it makes sure that during PvP it is the players skill that determines the winner, not the 
 level. well, i'm almost out of space so I just want to add that Guild Wars is the best MMO to date 
 beating out all others, and since ArenaNet owns most of the others out there, expect Guild Wars 
 to remain free. 
  Rock out everyone.
  Paladin Goat 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hippodude18
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 3, 2006 6:50 pm PT
Review:  i playd the betas and they where the best, and those were only BETAS i cant wait to acually go 
 out and get it hehehh i dont know why i waited this long. And really, i dont remember a lot of 
 hackers or nothing. this like GROWS ON YOU. it kept me from my homework for a long ass time lol 
 now i regret it. The graphics are beautiful. As i remember the community is one of the best iv 
 experianced. ( unlike diablo, warcraft communitys) . Unique skills, and concept is reMARKABLE!!! 
 i think this is a little better than WoW since its a really nice game that every MMO player should 
 have. they say that about WoW too but IM SAYING this about GW... thank you for your time redding 
 this review , when i do get GW :
  
  MY NAME WILL BE SonOfPlunder
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: adraps
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 3, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  the graphics of this game are great. the playability is pretty well planed out. it kinda sucks 
 that it takes a long time to get used to the keys. and they don't really give you a guide to follow 
 in the beginning. but it is cool that when you go out of a town that its your private world unless 
 your on player vs player mode. and that you can have 120 some skills but you can only have 8 skills 
 on your screen. but you can have two professions you get pretty early in the game probably 15-30 
 min in to the game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinukai
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 3, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  There are few games (Online or otherwise) that surpass the outstanding consistency and proficiency 
 this game churns up every hour. I have been a proud citizen of Tyria for nearly 4 months now and 
 I plan to stay until the developers decide to stop updating. 
  
  Although that claim may sound dubious, I have absolute confidence and respect for the developers 
 of GW who tirelessly update and observe the game world religiously. Constant game updates are easily 
 enjoyed with the latest streamlining technology and make for a smooth, satisfying gaming experience. 
 The fact that its free (to play online) isnt even an issue anymore with the amount of gameplay 
 you'll be able to cram into a single day. This is the first Online Game ive played, and from what 
 i've seen, its certainly one of the best out there today. Chapter 2 comes out soon, don't miss 
 it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Allendar
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 3, 2006 10:40 am PT
Review:  When I first hear about this game a year ago I really had mixed feelings about it. Would it be 
 constantly refreshed and updated? Would many people still be playing after a longer timeperiod?
 
  
  When it first released in the end of April 2005 I decided to buy the game together with a friend. 
 The great thing, that it was just like any other Singleplayer game; a one-time payment.
  
  The first hours of playing the game were really enjoyable. The beauty of the lands of the Pre-Searing 
 were realy amazing. The story proved to be very wide-ranged and there were many quests to get yourself 
 started to become a great hero.
  
  After some weeks the game will still be most pleasureable. In the Post-Searing the story will continue 
 and there will be tons of quests, missions and other great events be waiting for you to complete.
 
  
  If you really would've had it with PvE for the time period, you release your skills in the PvP 
 Outposts. The great thing is that you also can use your PvE character in the PvP Outposts.
  
  The gameplay of the game really gives you everything that you would wanted. It's so complete, 
 and ever-evolving. The producers keep track of the big fansites Forums and Boards so that they 
 will implent the many requests of the users in their new updates.
  
  Graphics & Sound are supreme. The graphical environment really pleasures each will, the sounds 
 and music are unique. Every skill and item has an unqiue sound. Also the music, composed by Jeremy 
 Soule really is amazing.
  
  To go into the details won't be really necesary I think. Many people are negative about this game 
 because it hasn't that ultimate RPG feeling. Also many younger participants and people that are 
 used to FPS games that play Guild Wars are quickly tired of the game and get sometimes even irritated 
 by it.
  
  I love RPG, love to play together, love that it's not a pay to play, love that your account will 
 never be deleted so you don't have to be online all the time. I love Guild Wars! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clarkseethaler
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 2, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars, personally, is my favorite MMO out there. It is a blast and a great time-waster. There 
 is no monthly fee which there never should be on ANY online game. I think if you create a game 
 you better have enogh $$$ to hire customer agents for great safe kid-free [kid meaning 10 year 
 olds and under who think they're so cool etc.] gameplay.
  
  Guild Wars can improve, however. It has only the human race available for you to play. It would 
 be nice to have like centaurs, elfs, dwarfs, etc. Also if you could get animals/pets to ride like 
 horses griffens and all that jazz!
  
  All and all i love Guild Wars!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rkrest
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 10:48 pm PT
Review:  When I first delved into Guild Wars I was impressed with the awesome graphics. The scenery is stunning 
 and the game plays very smoothly.
  Movement and combat controls are well designed and easy to learn. Cutaway scene animation is also 
 nicely done. Monster and henchman A. I. is better than most other games I've played. The storyline 
 is playable and the player management system (skills, inventory, stats, etc) is not overly complicated. 
 The PVP set-up is unique and entertaining. And there is no lagging at all.
  
  That being said, the game didn't blow me away. Every aspect of the game gets repetitive fairly 
 quickly. Solo adventuring is greatly discouraged by the game designers to where it becomes rather 
 quickly impossible. If you like to solo adventure or you're not heavily into PVP don't get this 
 game. This game is designed for a player to adventure with a group in PVE to gain levels mainly 
 as a prelude to the PVP aspect of the game. anyone who's a strict PVP fan will love this game, 
 PVE enthusiasts will quickly tire of it, especially loners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSpartanGod
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  With graphics that are absoluty beautiful and gameplay that truly draws you in this game show us 
 a new style of gameplay the really is a gift to all gamers of this genre. I think anyone who does 
 not enjoy this game even a little should not be allowed to play video games. I think that many 
 games are gonna have to work hard to top this game but it will be hard. This game is really and 
 artform and shows us how games should be played. Not to mention the way you can customise your 
 hero s amazing and truly you cn create the perfect hero for you. Plus the feature to be able to 
 build your own guild is amazing and truly bring new meaning to the words co operative play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dadappadon
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 1, 2006 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Im normal in2 games like need for speed and fifa. but this game is very gud seen as so ive never 
 even played an rpg game before. the graphics r gud the gameplay can b a bit boring at time specialy 
 the endless traveling u have 2 do. overall i would say it was a gud game. beware of online play 
 cus there r a lot of gimps out there. play it even if u hate the idea of an rpg game cus it will 
 open your eyes to a whole new game genre. after i played this i went straight out and got civilitation 
 iv and i reckon its better in lots of ways 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sethwillkaye
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 1, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  One of the best MMORPGs games, excellent graphics and gameplay, a unique level system. It has player 
 Vs player and guild Vs guild, the lay out of the game is brilliant in towns sections of the game 
 are separate to the outer town section so when in town everyone is selling, buying and teaming 
 up, the mission and leveling section your on your very own section with no one to interfere with 
 your training of quests unless in a team.
  
  There are two sections of the game Player Vs Player and the normal Player Vs Enemy the game is 
 build round the PvP but you have to unlock alot of the stuff from the PvE section to Create a stronger 
 PvP characters, you can create up two 4 professions Warrior, ranger, mage, monk, necromancer and 
 mesmer and on the PvE you must chose a primary profession and a secondary, the manual will explain 
 about profession but in the PvP you can just have a primary profession and the skills, weapons 
 and armor are spectacle.
  
  And the game has two main areas the first is for training and leveling and getting introject to 
 the game the first area is called Pre-searing and the main area is searing.
  
  Overall the game is brilliant, designed for all styles of gamers and the game is 30 and NO ONLINE 
 FEES which is great. If you are looking for a first MMORPG this one is the best. It is Highly addictive 
 but excellent play and has one of the best community of people on it who will help willingly.
 
  
  If your are over on the game and would like help my characters in the searing are Seth Will Kaye, 
 Monkey Shot and Walking Black Death and my other characters is in presearing called The Forbbiden 
 Flame. Just wisper me and i will be happy to help.
  
  More updates in march for chapter two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowXDrake
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 1, 2006 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is the ultimate RPG. It effectively combines all the elements of beat 'em up games, 
 action games, adventure games, and RPG games. It is quick and exciting and there's always something 
 new to do. There is an interesting skill system and profession system, for you can have two proffessions, 
 and there is an infinite number of different builds you can play. The PvE requires teamwork and 
 drains the hours. The PvP is quick and exciting and the GvG battles combine both of the two. The 
 Guild Wars world is beautiful and there are almost no load times, except when you are going into 
 a new area. However, the best part about this game is that there is no online fee! In World of 
 Warcraft, you have to pay 15 bucks a month, and it is definitely not worth it. 
  
  I am still avidly playing Guild Wars, and I cannot wait until Guild Wars 2 comes out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: midgar_4559
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 1, 2006 9:00 am PT
Review:  This massive onine player is a must for the PC gamer, this massive online player features Quests 
 levels stats item wepons and a wide variety of classes. Also, you have the ability to combine two 
 classes together to have your very own customized charactors. You can get swords, bows, or realy 
 on blood or holy magic. Join up with friends to complete quests, or go head to head to kill eachother. 
 There is an arena, quests, friends list, and much much more. The graphics are great the sound is 
 good and months after you get this game you will continue to play it over and over again. Like 
 I said this game is a must for gamers and non gamers alike. I am not sure the price of the game 
 now, but it is worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaredk
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2006 8:46 am PT
Review:  Wow , I just played 8 months of World of Warcraft . I thought that game was awesome until i tryed 
 Guild Wars. There is almost no Lagg in this game. The fun factor is well above great as well. I 
 find myslef not even thinking about WOW anymore. Wow seems stressfull when playing and takes the 
 fun out of gaming. Plus the Lagg is ridiculous. I also find it ridiculous that they over load a 
 server and you have to wait in a que to log in.. That is ignorant. None of this in Guild Wars. 
 I officially closed my account on WOW. Plus Guild Wars is free. Thanks NCSOFT. You have found a 
 new customer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warrior1598
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 31, 2005 9:15 pm PT
Review:  
  I really love this game especially the GvG action! And HAPPY NEW YEAR!!!! This game is amazing 
 in a Hundreds of ways (I just wish this acted more like a MMO i dident really like the idea of 
 having having the map to yourself but thats the only thing I really hated) And the level system 
 is also great!
  The character/Avatar system maker is pretty good just wish it was more in depth. And the anaimations 
 are really good.
  But the wintersday in the game doesn't seem to go away but thats good for the people of Ascalon 
 because it seems to drive back the Charr (thats really gay) Thats all I can think of right now... 
 Sorry. Very Sorry 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pjizzile11
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 31, 2005 5:23 pm PT
Review:  ggggggg gg g g g g g g g g not rating this because 100 words i mean i chuawa but its pretty good 
 you get your own world 75 skills per classes you get 2 classes and there are some skills that dont 
 need classes g g g gg g g gg g g g g g g g gg g g g g g g g g g g g g gg g g g g g g g g gg g g 
 g g g g g g g g g g g gg g g g g g g gg g g g g g 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalenl
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 31, 2005 1:41 pm PT
Review:  hmmm best bits of diablo plus wow take away paymonthly take away lonely boring training and add 
 pure aweinspiring game play and you have guild wars. theres 2 much for me to say but seriously 
 buy this game but not from play. com there postage is soo slow and you want the game so quick youll 
 be wakeing up at in the morning to see if the postman has been.
  with proffesions to choose unique guild with your own buildings capes and firends this game ahs 
 everything. for all who love onlnie play. the game can be found for under 20 quid and thats all 
 youll be paying apart from time. no mnothly fees and dowlnloads sent free whislt your playing. the 
 only negative thing is rare weapons and money is ahrd to come by. DONT WANT tSPEND HOURS TRAINING? 
 then dont create a completely leveled character for pvp instantlyNO ITS NOT A CHEAT. the game is 
 contastantly growing and with quests ready to be quested and no preperation needed youll jump right 
 in. no walknig for hours as instant tleportation at certain points you have visitec is right there 
 costing nothing. should you buy it? yes i have been playing online game for ages first starting 
 with basics like habbo hotel coke music and runescape but this is the best where everything you 
 need is on the cd not in your wallet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mem11363
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2005 8:34 pm PT
Review:  O. K, lets start when I first played it... first time I played it I did not like it. But about a 
 few months (o. k maby a year) after that I thought, maby I should give it another shot. And I did. 
 After that I enjoyed it like anyother massive multiy-player online game, and the graphics are as 
 they should be, its fun to watch your chacter battle other monsters, and the sound was better than 
 the sound in othe games. Its kind of the music in it that makes it kind of nice and...... relaxing. 
 As for the price... gosh, like, all the games are 50$. Yet the price the, the graphics, the gameplay, 
 and the sound all add up to a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazilla
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2005 7:11 pm PT
Review:  this game really took me by surprise, at how easy it is to pick up as a new player, and how hard 
 it is to actually master. this game is easy to appreciate on many levels. i think if you have never 
 played an MMO before, you will find this game easy to pick up and not time consuming. this game 
 is not like so many other MMO's out there. you can play for a half an hour, or for 5 hours. Never 
 will you feel like you need to dump all of your time and energy into this game. this game is absolutely 
 wonderful to look at as well. it was nominated by gamespot for technical and artistic graphics. 
 it also doesnt take a supercomputer to play it. i highly reccommend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kangwoolee
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 30, 2005 5:11 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games out. If you have no budget to play WOW then this the perfect game for you. 
 I played this game forever and i'm still not bored. Also, you don't feel pressured to play all 
 the time because you don't pay at all. It actually meets up to WOW and the makers of this game 
 did a great job. The graphics are great and it has a VERY VERY low requirement. I mean my PC is 
 old and still runs Guild Wars. So if at all hate paying money to those rich bastards to play a 
 MMORPG then play Guild Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canadianloonie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  1. Free Online Play -- One of the main reason why I got the game. I had held out playing any MMORPG 
 until now because of the dreaded monthly fees.
  2. Constantly Changing World -- The holiday-related content (Halloween & Christmas) was really 
 a treat!! With spiked eggnogs, giant ginger-bread men, and huge snowball fights, I had a tons of 
 fun simply wondering around the different cities to see what they came up with. Kudos to Guild 
 Wars developers! You guys really captured the holiday spirit!
  3. Well-Balanced but Really-Different Professions -- Playing all the different professions are 
 really fun. Each of them offers a nice sets of unique skills that are fun to try out and replay 
 the game with.
  4. Breathtaking Graphics -- The graphics really give you a sense that you're in this huge sprawling 
 world. There are many times where I simply had to stop, look around, and take in the gorgeous vistas 
 and/or grand structures.
  
  The Bad:
  1. Boring Mindless Side-Missions -- Most of the side missions is dull, lacks depth, and requires 
 absolutely no brain power. It would've been nice if they had Baldurs Gate type side-missions where 
 the storyline is interesting and intriguing and the mission is fun and satisfying to do. Guild 
 War's side missions have none of that. You do them just for the experience points & the new skill 
 sets and not because you really wanted to.
  2. Repetitive NPCs/Areas -- After playing the game for a while, you begin to notice it's repetitiveness. 
 The game is not as big or varied as you initially thought. If it take away their looks, all the 
 cities and areas are exactly the same. They have the same set of NPCs. The merchant and traders 
 sells the exact same things. The armour & weapons smiths offers the same set of armour & weapons. 
 You don't get a sense that each cities are really different from the next one.
  3. Not Single-Player Friendly -- Players going through the game solo will mostly likely not finished 
 it. Most of the latter missions are virtually impossible if you tackle it alone with the standard 
 henchmen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eskouster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2005 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is staggeringly vast. The first 8 hours or so are an introduction to an idyllic land 
 with a gentle river and fertile farms. The world you find seems incredibly large, taking perhaps 
 an hour or two to walk from the north end to the south. Unique creatures populate it, as do many 
 memorable characters. There are dozens of missions to complete and several regions to explore.
 
  
  Once you move on from that first world, the first time you check your map is a shock. The actual 
 gameworld is thirty of forty times bigger, sprawling over a continent called Tyria. It was a great 
 deal of fun exploring it with a friend. We heard rumors about how there was a land of islands and 
 jungles just beyond the moutnains - it seemed we would never get there. Exploring the world is 
 a lot of the fun of the cooperative missions. There are many great moments in the game that mark 
 the trail. 
  
  The graphics are amazing. Technically, they scale extremely well on a variety of systems, and look 
 superb even on older computers like mine. While many newer games require the very best system to 
 fully enjoy, Guild Wars does not. 
  
  Artistically, there's a very distinct look and flavor to the world and its creatures. It's elegant 
 and enchanting. The entire world has a very delicate glitter to it. 
  
  There's definitely some traditional fantasy, like dwarves, dragons and skeletons. But there's an 
 awful lot that is fresh, like hydras, wurms and scarabs. 
  
  The social features of Guild Wars are terrific. You can easily form a guild, design a cape, and 
 invite all your friends. It makes it really easy to chat in the world, form parties and the rest. 
 
  
  There are so many forms of gameplay as well. Besides the cooperative missions, which easily take 
 100 or so hours with one character, there are casual combat arenas for competitive play, the hardcore 
 international tournament that leads to the Hall of Heroes, and plenty of areas to farm and build 
 up your character. Whatever your mood, there's something to do and enjoy. 
  
  Difficulty scales as well. You can fight others casually in random arenas, or really train for 
 weeks to fight in the biggest tournaments. The final cooperative missions are quite challenging, 
 but by then most players are reasonably adept at the game. 
  
  This is the very best game I played in 2005. I do admit I burned out after, um, about 400 hours 
 of playing. (It keeps track for you, which is a little embrassing.) But the world was enthralling 
 and captivating, as was the experience of playing through a large game with a bunch of friends. 
 I definitely look forward to returning to Tyria in expansions. 
  
  Oh yeah, and no monthly fees! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmAn_0
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2005 2:30 am PT
Review:  "Guild Wars is rather enjoyable, even though there are periods of time when you just don't feel 
 like playing it, you always come back for more. I like the game overall the graphics are ok, and 
 the vast number of quests and things to do keep players busy. Also the lack of fees is a Major 
 plus. I steer away from most games like this because of the fees, but Guild Wars provides the things 
 you would expect for no charge. The interactions between players is good and eventually teamwork 
 is imperative to survive, I don't however like that other players are only seen in towns or if 
 they are in your party, this even with its few advantages, is also something lacking in the game, 
 Overall Guild Wars is great Game and definitely a buy, at times it gets boring, but once it grows 
 on you, you cant shake it loose 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpurAnsem
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 14, 2006 3:45 pm PT
Review:  This a very good game that's addicting and easy to get into, period. Buy it if your'e looking for 
 an inexpensive MMORPG. No monthly fees, pays for itself after 4 and a half months compared to WoW. 
 Nice on all aspects. DIfferent style of leveling and upgrading your character. Mission based storyline. 
 Best PvP experience out there. Very minimal downsides, nothing to let people down. People who say 
 this game is bad are just idiot ignorant RuneScape players. (Ive played RS in the past and am happy 
 to play this instead) Theres a new expansion coming out, and it will certainly make the game alot 
 better. The expansion is stand alone, so you can buy that game instead of Guild Wars or u can get 
 both!!!. PvP is merged between the two chapters, and the expansion has PVP and PVE and integrated 
 into the mission, including factions that u can join. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsktaker
Rating: 4.1
Date: Dec 27, 2005 4:01 pm PT
Review:  While I am sure Guild Wars deserves a high rating for a multi-player on-line game, it is advertised 
 also as a single player game. I feel as a single player game, it fails miserably. In fact it is 
 almost impossible to advance very far in the game without getting extremely frustrated. The lack 
 of finding adequate weapons and armor or enough money and places to buy them makes the game un-enjoyable.
 
  I have been playing RPG games for several years and this is the poorest single player game I have 
 encountered. GW should never have been advertised as a single player, in fact, I believe it approaches 
 false advertising. I paid $50 for this game and I truly believe it is not worth $5.
  The publishers of this game need to realize that many of us do not care for multi-player games 
 and only prefer single player. We may be in the minority, but our money is as good as everyone 
 else's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gruan
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 26, 2005 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Guild wars is completely different from other rpg games. Although it may look similiar, it isn't. 
 Guild wars combines many things found in rpgs like arena places where u can fight, skill system, 
 attributes, and etc. The gameplay in guild wars is similiar to diablo 2, except it is 3d and the 
 graphics are 10 times better. Problem with the gameplay is The quests can be very tedious, requiring 
 you to kill a lot of enemies and can take up to an hour for one quest. Graphics are great, clean 
 and beautiful. Sound is good too, but uses same types of tunes over and over agian, which can get 
 annoiyng. Definetly worth 40 bucks, can keep you up to playing it for at least 80 + hours. No monthly 
 FEE unlike world of warcraft, so feel free to take ur time. Overall, i think this game is great 
 and this is a must have rpg game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lord-plogan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2005 8:43 pm PT
Review:  GuildWars is one of the most amazing games i ever played. First of all its one of the very few 
 MMORPGs that have free online game play. Also with all the updates even if you beat the game they 
 still make it fun to just well go around and do quests and fight. I play like 1-5 hours a day! 
 This past Halloween was very fun with they King thron coming to play games with you in Lion's Arch, 
 But the Christmas update was the best! I'm trying to get all the Candy Weapons and did all the 
 quests. Still trying to get one of those icey dragon swords
  
  
  
  
  
  
  ~Master Of The Sea~
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: w4rgasm
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 25, 2005 12:24 pm PT
Review:  This game has a lot of content for the "no monthly charges" feature.
  And yeah, i loved playing it. The world it offered was magnificent, but it almost seemed like there 
 were no other players out there with you. It didnt seem like a "war" between guilds like the title 
 implies.
  However, the guild set up was extremeley in depth and immersive. And the unique style of PvP was 
 refreshing. Though i really would have like to seen PvP and PvE react with one another, so you 
 can get "ganked" or even pissed off.
  The absolutely best thing that i have no arguments over are the "no monthly fees" and of course, 
 every female character looks like a victoria secret model, and every guy looks like Zeus. No complaints 
 there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zerkeer
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2005 10:35 am PT
Review:  The creators of Guildwars have surely taken lots of risks by offering an absolutely fee-free MMORPG. 
 
  
  Thanks to the absolutely nice design of characters, the new features within gameplay energy/mana-structures, 
 and the 2-class based character development, luckily this game has become a success.
  
  In a time of mass-stupidity and overwhelming manipulation this is not always natural..
  
  This 
 time innovation has truly been rewarded. And i am really glad about it: it will surely pave the 
 ways for future MMORPGs. Guildwars has showed that it can also be done without fees. Looking at 
 WoW for instance, with the omni-present, old-looking children-cartoon-design.. and online fees, 
 Guildwars Smashes WoW in pieces.
  
  For my part i am impatiently looking forward to Guildwars 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzraeLskI
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 25, 2005 10:25 am PT
Review:  I bought this game because I`we seen it a my friend and I liked it the most because of the fact 
 that it had no monthly fee`s and I was realy close to the World Of Warcraft. But the bad side is 
 that it bores you preety soon. The only time you get to fight the other players is in the arena. 
 I mean, thats fair but there is nothing better than sitting at some crossroads and robbing everyone 
 that passes by. And there are just 20 levels, whats up with that, what when you reach the 20th 
 level its over? Im sorry but thats just not cool. Dont think this is a poor game I just think they 
 could have done a better job 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SiBaba
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 25, 2005 7:40 am PT
Review:  I have never played a MMORPG type game as I could never afford to pay monthly to play a game, so 
 when I heard GW plays a bit like MMORPG's without any fees I took the plunge. I'm glad I did as 
 this is an awesome game, one that I have never experianced before.
  
  You start of by creating a character who can be a warrior, ranger, mesmer, elementist, monk and 
 Necromancer. After that your thrown staright into a large town where there are tons of other players 
 doing there business. I started of by playing by myself and eveuntlly I needed to be in groups 
 of other players. There are lots of missions to do but you can do whatever you want and explore 
 whereever you want.
  
  The PVP is quite good too, but theres only one type of mode for that type and thats more or less 
 deathmatch. It might have been good to have other types like capture the flag.
  
  The graphics are great even on low spec machines and it has great sound too.
  
  All in all 
 this is a great multiplayer game, one that should not be missed!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZanderCool
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 25, 2005 12:48 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying this is one of the most refreshingly fun games I have played in a while. 
 The game allows you to choose between a slew of different character classes with abilities that 
 are, for the most part, unique to the game and characters. Cant decide? Dont have to! The game 
 lets you wield two character classes at the same time for even greater diversity which lends itself 
 to the allowance of true strategy, which, believe it or not, is actually necessary in this game.
 
  
  The meat and bones of this game are some of the most challenging I have faced in a while. Unlike 
 in most MMORPGs where I found myself soloing with no problem, Guild Wars strips you bare of that 
 capability and makes you strategize and work with others to get through a surfeit of exciting adventures. 
 While the side adventures have been known to get a little repetitive, they are by far not as bad 
 as in most other MMORPGs, or as abundant as in other MMORPGs. 
  
  The visuals in the game are also breathtaking and very supplemental of the game play and plot. 
 The music is also very inspiring, but it tends to get repetitive.
  
  Now, for the biggest part of the game: THE PVP. Yet again this game manages to do something other 
 could not; make the PVP challenging and fun. In most other games PVP depends on your ability to 
 grind and accessorize, but not in GW, in this game strategy is necessary. Why? Well, unlike in 
 most games, there are very few items which outdo others, also every PVP character starts off on 
 the same level, so it is up to you to combine skills which will deal damage and at the same time 
 protect you and keep you alive. Of course, these are skills you need to find in the actual story 
 and unlock by finding and crafting runes, and finding items. 
  
  There is so much to this game that the 100-word limit is not enough (like guilds, which are amazing! 
 There are actual rankings, guild halls, guild competitions, it is truly an amazing facet also, 
 there is god favor which allows access to wealth-plenty areas and it must be won through PVP!)
 
  
  However, it is not all milk and honey. One can find themselves burned out on this game really quickly 
 and if not too into PVP, the PVM gets repetitive and finished in no more then forty hours. However, 
 future expansions aid solution to this and help eliminate the pesky monthly fees.
  
  Get this game! Its worth it, even if you stop playing once you finish, the journey through its 
 breath-taking lands, and your epic battles with its ferocious creatures will make it worth it!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WASDPwned
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 24, 2005 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Those looking for a game to replace other traditional MMORPGs, look away. While some can really 
 not find ANYTHING wrong with Guild Wars, theres still the fact that, in its core, its not really 
 an MMORPG. One of the neatest things is that, While somewhere else besides town, you have the entire 
 map to yourself (Or a party, if your in one.)
  
  There is alot of character depth as well, Because the game has many jobs, and each job can take 
 on the traits of another, So combining 2 jobs in one.
  
  HOWEVER...
  
  The max level limit of this game is 20. Whats also frustrating is that you level up very slow. 
 I don't understand how this game seems like Diablo, Normally Diablo games have incredible weapons 
 and Armor, but Guild Wars only seems to have lame Unidentified weapons, and most of the Rarer ones 
 are just basic duplicates of another. 
  
  The PvP is another story. Here, there is no MMORPG. Or RPG entirely. If your expecting 20,000hp 
 hulking 1900 damage a hit warriors, you will find 400hp, and lots of 20s and 30s. That keeps it 
 simple. However to build a good character, You have to play through the standard Role Playing to 
 unlock any of the good skills. Basically, the Normal Role-Playing mode seems like an Offline RPG. 
 Not MMO. The PvP Is like an Action Hack and Slash. The game has solid controls but lacks in depth, 
 for it's only depth is the skills. Each, "Stat" or Trait of your character has a max of 13, and 
 none of these are your standard, Strength, Agility, or Magic. These are Character traits, and some 
 increase the power of one spells, while another increases another.
  
  Visually, the game is great. Each area seems unique and graphically detailed. Nothing much to complain 
 about there. The music, however, is basically the same, Ye' Ol' music. Those you hear in movies, 
 the old, strung guitar and piano songs. You won't focus much, and what makes it worse, it's usually 
 the same song over and over.
  
  One of the better things I found interesting, was that the game has a very good storyline. You 
 can find yourself in a green, Peaceful setting. Then find yourself in the same town only its utterly 
 destroyed, No vegetation, and all the water has been turned to tar. The transitions between these 
 events are very well done, and each period of the story has it's own town, and you only see people 
 that are that far in the quest. As I have said before, You only see other players in town unless 
 your in a party. 
  
  You won't find yourself sucked into it at first, and this game may not keep you going forever. 
 If you have the energy to unlock the best skills in the Standard Role-playing mode, The PvP can 
 be a fun Hack-and-Slash experiance, because there is no RPG elements, and the Role-playing will 
 feel like one of the Slowest, Shallowest RPGs you have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 20680832064446511744847751492813-The-Shu
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 24, 2005 9:56 pm PT
Review:  i dont seem to play many videogames anymore, but this game kinda turned it around for me. i play 
 this game whenever i can, keeps me occupied. i like the online play, plus its free. i would have 
 to say the only annoying things are when the servers dont function properly or the immature kids 
 that start saying crap and drawing stupid pictures on the map. hate that. but aslong as they help 
 out throught the missions and quests, i can get over it. i like the graphics, thought they arent 
 the absolute greatest, the sound is well done and the story is long. the characters arent bad either. 
 though you can really only change the face, hair, and hair colour. another great thing is the competitions 
 that Arena Net stirs up. you can check some of them out at the website, www. guildwars. com. right 
 now, its a christmas theme, so if you havent played in a while, check it out. its neat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goatE
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 24, 2005 2:44 pm PT
Review:  So many reviews for such a great game. To begin with the game is visualy stunning, yet runs even 
 on my modest bargain PC. The audio is nice, if not a bit repetitive. The gameplay is amazing. However, 
 you get what you put into this game. That means that if you expected to pick it up, play it for 
 an hour and be an all-powerful godly pk-er, then its no wonder you didn't enjoy it. So many people 
 say the game is "shallow" that it lacks substance. These individuals most likely jumped directly 
 into building a pvp character and mistakenly thought that that was all the game had to offer. Which 
 would be true, considering pvp IS the aim of endgame. However if you don't first take the time 
 and put in the effort of gathering the skills and unique items that can really make you (and the 
 pvp game) shine, then the game definately seems devoid of bulk. 
  
  On the subject of Character Depth. This is probably one of the most unique games in respect to 
 character creation. I don't mean appearance-wise... I mean build-wise. In most online rp and mmorp 
 games a "build" is a specific style of play using a certain profession or class. The trouble with 
 most games is that there are only a few "builds" per profession to pick from, and each build can 
 pretty much only be played one way, with skills already chosen, items already picked for endgame. 
 Anyone who has played any games from the Diablo franchise knows exactly what i mean... but anyone 
 familiar with mmo's should have a good idea. It definately gets old running around knowing that 
 the character you spent so much time building is exactly the same as every other character of that 
 class. With guild wars you don't have that issue. One reason being the secondary profession. This 
 makes for "hybrid" builds, which means that you can take your character and fully adapt him/her 
 100% to your prefered games style.. You don't have to adapt your game play to the character, as 
 with many other games. 
  
  One of the biggest selling points of this game in my opinion is that is is fee-less. But no one 
 is pointing out WHY that is important. Sure we are cheap, we don't like shelling out an aditional 
 20 bucks or more a month to play a game that we already spent possibly hundreds on to buy the game 
 and its expansion packs. In the past, we got over that. We bit the bullet and paid the fees because 
 that was the only way a game could be kept "alive". Servers cost money to keep running. Developers 
 have to be paid, etc etc etc. In the past, this was the case. Welcome to the future. There are 
 even now MMORPG's from the past that are being offered free to play (Anarchy online, which sports 
 both fee-less play and free client download.) Also, there are countless free MMO's coming from 
 the asian community. Knight Online, Planeshift, and Silk Road to name a few. We now live in an 
 age where the once-huge costs of game upkeep no longer apply. There is NO NEED for monthly fees. 
 If anything, yearly fees might work. People think "you are just greedy and don't want to shell 
 out the fee to play so you make stupid arguments for which you have no basis." Actually, I don't 
 have a "major credit card" to pay the fees, and in the time it would take for a snail mail payment 
 to arrive half of my subscription month would be gone before the money order cleared. But now I 
 DO have a prime example to support my argument that MMO's no longer require monthly payment. That 
 example being, Guild Wars. In the old days game companies were hesitant to charge people a monthly 
 fee to play a game. To the companies then it was ludacris to think that anyone would want to devote 
 that kind of cash to a game. Now the game companies no longer need the fees, but they have grown 
 so large and become quite greedy and as such are hesitant to give up that huge (and I mean HUGE) 
 revenue. How huge? World of Warcraft has a monthly fee of $14.99 with 1.5 MILLION subscribers. 
 That means that per month on average there is around $15 Million in revenue from subscribers alone. 
 Thats alos 1.5 MILLION people who bought the game at approximately $50.00 a pop. Thats $50 Million 
 in revenue, with an aditional $15 Million a month being made. Is all this money really necessary 
 to keep the game servers up and to keep the game running smoothly with interesting and new content? 
 
  
  In the future of online gaming I see many more games like guild wars being released. Even if they 
 are not accepted as full-fledged MMO's they are just as engrossing and just as amazingly interesting. 
 I say bravo to Guild Wars, bravo to a resounding success. Now if we can work on a similarly-styled 
 science fiction (ohhh star wars please?) game. That would be the cat's pajamas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brenz77
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 23, 2005 11:39 pm PT
Review:  this game is good and fun and very long it is worth it's money so i say buy it uit isn t as great 
 as WoW becasue it has a stupid lvl 20 limet they should raise it to 50-70 taht would be great but 
 in all it is a very good game it has many of quest and teh world is just beautiful and sound is 
 great a couple bad thigs besides the lvl is they need more monsters and a bigger map if they plan 
 to raise the lvl the pvp good be funenr if ppl have more hip points
  and they need it easier to make money becasue if your new to a game liek this you will get lost 
 very easy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chingo_madres
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 23, 2005 9:43 pm PT
Review:  First of all, i gotta say that guild wars is a n amazing game. It succes in every aspect of thegame. 
 The graphics are wonderful. It beautiful when you are outside of ascalon. The sun effect its really 
 surreal, it gves you that warm feeling of an evening fall, I really apreciate the work put on this 
 game. One of the first things you'll notice is that it is really quick to install, plus ou don't 
 have to wait that much to update it or download patches, for you just connect to arenanet while 
 playing it and dont even notive it. The weaponry and skills are awesome because u got such a variety 
 of them and many combinations of professions.
  Thesound track is amazing as well, Jeremy Soule composed such gorgeous pieces, though most of the 
 time I had windows media player and my favorite bands and artists playing for the background. ;)
 
  I bought it when it came and I was amazingly impressed when I played. Guys if you want a counterpart 
 of World of War Craft, where you dont have t pay a fee, then u should buy this game.
  But there is one little detail about the game, which i must inform you all; aftet a while of game 
 playing i stop doing so, I mean, there was no point on playing guid Wars anmore. I got tired of 
 it, though i know it is always changing. So make sure that this is a game that you are gonna play 
 for a long long time, so far I havent played it for 6 months...
  such a waste of money, but i recommend it to anyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolcaz888
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 23, 2005 6:54 pm PT
Review:  When i first read about this game in a magazine i thought "It's a must have"... and man it sure 
 is!!! There is so much playability. The graphics look B-utiful! There are SOOO many people playin 
 its unbelieveable. And not to mention the great gameplay. Whether you wanna play for an hour or 
 two..... or go for the long haul! It mixes MMO style with first-person RPG grace. The result is 
 something most definatley worth playing. Oh and did i mention that its FREE!!! No other MMORPG 
 is free of this caliber, lemme tell ya. Guild Wars is one of my favorite pc games, in fact, one 
 of my all time favorite games. It'd make an awesome holiday present!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shaun373
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 23, 2005 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a wonderful fantasy world MMO. What makes Guild Wars really stand out for me is that 
 the whole fantasy MMO has been rehashed so many times, yet Guild Wars has a fresh feel about it. 
 Guild Wars has graphics that rival the best any MMO has to offer, and the gameplay too. This game 
 offers you the ability to take on a role in a fantasy land, gee been there before haven't we. However 
 this game has a good combination of grinding and questing. Most games can't offer you that mix. 
 If you're stuck between quests and you want some bonus Xp just go knock off a couple bad guys and 
 you will gain some good Xp. However like WoW the bulk of you Xp can be gained by donig the multitude 
 of quests that the game has to offer. You get to choose two professions, ranger, monk, warrior, 
 necromancer, etc. all your standard professions in a fantasy game. But again there is an X factor 
 that I can't put my finger on that makes this game fun despite the fact that we have been here 
 before. It is probably the great content with little price. The ability to switch "districts" at 
 random so that you can be with any of your friends at any given time is also a nice touch by the 
 developers. All in all I would highly recommend Guild Wars for anyone who enjoys MMO's obviously 
 but also any one that has become discouraged by the market flood of them as well because of some 
 of the above mentioned reasons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: logansdabest
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2005 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Guild wars is absolutely amazing, it completely changes the way mmorpgs are played and it severely 
 lowers the price, while at the same time raising quality.
  
  First i will tell you about the gameplay. It is incredible. You can choose from 6 classes, necromancer, 
 warrior, ranger, monk, mesmer, or elementalist. Each class is equally powerful, however certain 
 classes are better in certain situations. Each class has 150 different skills, however you can 
 only bring 8 with you at a time, so choose wisely. Rangers can have pets such as bears, lizards, 
 giant spiders, wolves, moa birds, and lynxes. These pets help you in combat. Also when you leave 
 a city u get your own copy of the map and will only be with your party, no more countless people 
 stealing your kills.
  
  Next I will tell you about the graphics, they are also incredible, the level of detail is just 
 incredible, you can even see your own footprints! 
  
  The sound is good, however it is nothing special. The music is very good for original music.
 
  
  Finnally the value, this game is downright cheap. You buy it for $50 and then there are no monthly 
 charges! This game is definitely a must have if you cant afford the $15 a month for WoW.
  
  All in all guild wars is an innovative game that you absolutely must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eclipse849
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 23, 2005 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a online rpg kinda like WOW but instead of having to pay every day of your life its 
 free. The graphics in the game were not the greatest but still holds its own. Since its a rpg you 
 can customize your own character down to the necklace and rings. Althought its a online rpg its 
 not like what you expect most of the time you spend in this game is spent in towns waiting for 
 people to join your party for you can go out into the world. Picture this, its like if you play 
 halo2 and you make a party you can invite people to the party and when they get in the party you 
 can join a game. But in Guild Wars its once you start a game you can only leave the party you cant 
 rejoin it after you leave. The sound in the game is pretty good, but can use some inprovement. 
 The gameplay is kinda like KOTOR which isnt bad but not my type of gameplay. Guild wars has alot 
 of replay value and also has PvP combat mode which can be quite fun sometimes. Guild wars is a 
 really great game and definately worth 50. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nato1992
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 23, 2005 2:55 am PT
Review:  Starts off as a really decent game but after a while gets boring and i was unable to get hooked 
 into this game. The interface and graphics are very good but the overall game didn't really meet 
 my expextations in the end.
  I was also expecting more races race other than just human males/female. The game could also use 
 a better system in buying and selling items as all the shops seem to have the same merchandise. 
 But nevertheless the guys who have made this have made a very good MMORPG i can see why so many 
 ppl enjoyes it but it just wasn't for me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloogle18
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2005 9:36 pm PT
Review:  One of the best times i've had with a pc game. Best buy for me. The game play is crazy! New patches 
 created almost every month or two. Also ads humor and joy for holiday scenes. I recommend this 
 for someone with a reasonable computer, with a good video card. 
  
  The levels and length are perfect, all though while in pre post, it can get boring, but when you 
 get into post, you shall have one of the best gaming experiences you have ever had on a pc. And 
 with the free online play you wont have to play one of the best computer games for money... who 
 does?
  
  
  All i have to say is go out and but this now, you will not regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silvan101
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2005 6:48 pm PT
Review:  I love this game and it is very fun with a good story line and dont wory soon there will be more 
 races and wepons. THis is my fav game i love it and play it for hours i have all my guys to 20 
 a ranger warrior necro and mesmer and if u dont have this game u should get it it is freeand is 
 really fun and soon ther ewill be elves and dwarfs and all the good **** in the expansion pack 
 coming out so get it now so u can be rdy for it. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  I love this game and it is very fun with a good story line and dont wory soon there will be more 
 races and wepons. THis is my fav game i love it and play it for hours i have all my guys to 20 
 a ranger warrior necro and mesmer and if u dont have this game u should get it it is freeand is 
 really fun and soon ther ewill be elves and dwarfs and all the good **** in the expansion pack 
 coming out so get it now so u can be rdy for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skullmage550
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2005 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is the best game there is (well in my opinion) ! There is so many characters you can 
 chose from some are; Warrior, Ranger, Monk, and there is a lot more. The quests are long and hard 
 or short and easy it all depends what level you are and who you get it from. The pets you can get 
 is really cool because you train a monster to be your pet but the monster must be an animal. The 
 graphics are the best for a free online game. The towns are where you can talk to people and trade 
 with them. You can't trade with other players where there is monsters. The PvP (Player verses Player) 
 is really good. If you don't have this game you MUST I meant you MUST get this game it is so addicting 
 and fun! You won't regret the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saeoh
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 22, 2005 9:32 am PT
Review:  Well some ppl love to make comparisoin with other MMORPGs. Well, if you are expecting tradition 
 MMORPGs, go get WoW or somthing else.
  
  Personally, i bough this game because I already knew some of Diablo creators made and so i knew 
 it will be like Diablo. Still i think it is just like Daiblos but more advance and team content.
 
  
  It is truly master piece of quick and fun PvsP system and you dont have to be sooooo stressed out 
 because of your death or because you lost in PvsP. Personally, i not really into PvsP things. Even 
 the missions, it is quite fun and you can finish one mission in 1-2 hours which in MMORPG, take 
 fwe hours just to make group.
  
  Thus, i play both. I play MMORPGs normally and whenever i feel like to get rid of some of stress 
 or i dont have enough time (one PvsP take about 10-20min) , i play guilwars. Since no monthly fee, 
 i can enjoy whenever i want to:)
  
  For Summary, if you want something u want to have somthing quick and fun without stress, go get 
 guildwar. If you want to somehting very addictive and massive content which u can play hours and 
 hours, go get MMORPGs.
  
  Only thing i like to see in this game is real "JUMP".
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcusmpcconnor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2005 8:20 am PT
Review:  I have played many online games that say they are the next great thing. nothing however was actually 
 revolusionary. they all wanted trn bucks a month. i found myself outisde bathing with the homeless 
 people after just a year.
  But then Guild wars was announced with NO FEE'S. I dropped to my knees and thanked the good lord 
 above. i knew in my mind that day that i had to own it.
  Being the gamer i am i new had to wait for my 2 sources (PC Gamer and Gamespot) to review it. as 
 soon as PC Gamer gave it a 88% and gamespot 92% I could see my self walking down isl number 13 
 to buy Guild Wars.
  Face the facts people the rattings dont lie, this is one of the best MMORPG's ever made. it beats 
 the crap out of the sims online with it money hungary, digging in dupsters for an extra few bucks, 
 obsesion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smiling_bull
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2005 2:40 am PT
Review:  Unlike conventional MMORPG, there is no monthly subscription. This is of course a great plus point 
 for casual gamers who likes RPG or MUD, yet not going to spend hours on it per day. You can take 
 your own sweet time to play for as long as you like.
  
  This aside, the gameplay is very unique. Generally divided in PVE and PVP.
  In PVE, it is just 
 similar to general RPG games where you and a group of friends (or bring npc) goes on a killing 
 spree. 
  
  In PVP, team work is put into great test.
  
  This is where it is most unique and different from normal RPG games. Generally in normal RPG, the 
 longer a player plays the game, the better he will be. For the simple reason he will have more 
 $$$, allowing him to buy better equipment and weapons. All these plays a very important part in 
 normal MMORPG.
  
  In guild war, the truth is, weapons/armor becomes secondary. As long as a player reaches level 
 20, its all about how he configure his character. At a certain stage, you will have the $$ to buy 
 the best "available" weapon or armor. There are people who will spend millions to get very good 
 weapon/armor. But an armor that cost millions gold and one that cost 3000 gold will have absolutely 
 no difference in stats. The only difference is in terms of looks. 
  
  This ensure that even a new player, with the correct configuration/original idea, can beat a player 
 that clock hundreds of hours. When it comes to PVP, team work is the key. It no longer matters 
 if all the players have most expensive weapons or armors. All these do not count. The skill set 
 is the most important. Once a player reaches level 20. All skill set are equal. 
  
  To conclude. If you like a game where your own skills count. GW is the game. It have everything 
 an RPG gamer can ask for. Killing, drops, $$$, team work. Yet it will never rich players to bully 
 the new 1 since $$$ is really more superficial.
  
  You will have hours of fun with this game. Try it
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Berkhunt
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 21, 2005 1:42 am PT
Review:  Online games are more popular than ever, and theyre continuing to gain steam with popular games 
 like Ragnarok Online, MU Online, Khan Online and World of Warcraft finding their way to PCs everywhere. 
 The gaming market is full of these Massive Multiplayer Online Role Playing Games (MMORPGs) , the 
 downside is that all this fun comes with a price  a monthly price. There are certain MMORPGs that 
 dont require a monthly fee, but take a hit with game quality. Its almost impossible to find a 
 game with the depth of World of Warcraft, the community of Everquest and superb graphics while 
 waiving the accursed monthly fee. This is where developers ArenaNet comes in and threatens to shake 
 the foundation of online games everywhere with their first title, Guild Wars.
  
  Guild Wars is unique from all other MMORPGs for several reasons. Like what was mentioned earlier, 
 it has none of the monthly fees normally associated with online-only games. You pay the initial 
 price of the game itself, but thats it. For a lot of people, not being able to play just because 
 your prepaid card runs out is a major hassle, and the extra monthly cost you have to pay just to 
 play with your friends online can really hurt. Also, unlike other MMORPGs, Guild Wars uses a technology 
 that generates a separate adventuring area for individual parties whenever they leave towns. To 
 put it simply, this means that your adventuring party will never bump into another group while 
 doing quests, or hunting for monsters. Your partys world is yours alone. While this kills the 
 feeling that youre living in a massive world, your party will never have to worry about the annoyances 
 of kill-stealing and spamming from other players. All the interacting between people online is 
 done in towns, in between missions. This is where people can chat, trade items, form groups, etc. 
 Players familiar with Diablo II and its Battlenet server will feel right at home as the mechanics 
 between these two games are very similar to each other, probably owing to the fact that some of 
 the developers from ArenaNet came from Diablos developer, Blizzard Entertainment. Now that weve 
 gotten that out of the way, lets talk about the game details.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics in Guild Wars are gorgeous. Lighting effects are used brilliantly in the surrounding 
 environment, and at full detail and maximum anti-aliasing, absolutely jaw-dropping. From desert 
 areas, to snow filled mountain peaks, the massive world of Tyria is given a soft, vivid hue that 
 does really works to fulfill the fantasy world theme. The individual characters are portrayed by 
 hundreds of possible combinations, from height, hairstyle, and skin tone, to armor and weapons 
 to give each character a unique flavor. The graphical detail of each character is nicely done, 
 you can see that every detail was treated with loving attention.
  
  Sound
  
  Guild Wars also sounds great. The symphonic musical score is composed by game music industry veteran 
 Jeremy Soule, and does well to fit into whatever is happening on screen. An epic, rousing battle 
 hymn is played during intense combat, and a serenading ambient piece is played when appropriate. 
 Though the music can get repetitive at times, it never gets to the point that youd rather have 
 it turned off. The sound effects found throughout the game also do a good job of replicating the 
 environment, be it an environment of peace or war. Like the music, sound of clattering swords and 
 spell casting tends to get repetitive, though this doesnt take away from the overall enjoyment 
 of the game.
  
  Gameplay
  
  SKILL SYSTEM
  
  This is where Guild Wars really shines. Like the name mentions, Guild Wars is all about guild or 
 group battles. The game encourages players to form their own clans to explore the world together. 
 Characters in guilds are identified by their own special insignia, and a customized cape of their 
 choice. Besides doing quests as a group, guilds also have the option to challenge each other for 
 the top spot of the guild ladder, and earn respect as top guild of the game. The guild ladder is 
 posted in the Guild Wars website for everyone to see, and this ends up being a very competitive 
 system between players. Guild Wars further separates itself from other online games by avoiding 
 the grind system. The typical formula for most online games is that the strongest player is the 
 one with the highest level. A high level is obtained by killing tons of monsters over and over 
 again to give you the experience points you need. This is called grinding. Guild Wars eliminates 
 this by implementing a comprehensive skill system, to the gameplay. Skills are found by various 
 means throughout the game, and are not restricted by levels. This means that a lower level character 
 will be able to beat a higher level character if he uses the skills more effectively.
  
  ONLINE COMMUNICATION
  
  Every effective strategy requires efficient communication, and with 
 todays high speed internet, real-time communication online is possible through VoIP (Voice over 
 Internet Protocol) technology. One example of how this technology is used for gaming is Teamspeak. 
 Teamspeak is a scalable application which enables people to speak with one another over the internet. 
 The Teamspeak server acts as a host to multiple client connections, capable of handling literally 
 thousands of simultaneous users. This results in an internet based teleconferencing solution that 
 works in a variety of gaming applications such as teammates speaking with one another while playing 
 with their favorite guild.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galamode
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 20, 2005 7:19 am PT
Review:  Some people say Guild Wars is too short. But, the game took me over 250 hours to beat. If you are 
 an expert MMO player and you don't mind having a $15/mo fee, maybe you should get wow because Guild 
 Wars is more for begginers. You get 6 races of people in the game and 6 options for sub-races. 
 Theres lots of armor ,weapons and things you can do in the game. Its a blast and well worth the 
 $50 you pay for it. The Graphics are great, and the game sounds amazing. It only takes around 1-2 
 hours to learn how to play the game but if you feel that you need more time to learn to play the 
 game you can spend as much time as you want in the tutorial world. Most people in the game can 
 help you with things, and Guild battles are extremely fun. Last, the story is pretty good in the 
 beggining of the game, but over time I lost all track of what was going on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arsenaltom
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 20, 2005 5:20 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a brilliant MMORPG's which has some great simple gameplay, stunning graphics, a great 
 music score from Jeremy Soule and a complete lack of monthly fees. This game is just amazing! Read 
 on to find out why.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is very simple but works very well and there are thousands of skills to 
 unlock and master as the game progresses. The character creation system is very detailed but you 
 can also make a special PvP character right from the start. Although it's more fun to watch as 
 your RPG character gradually builds up into the ultimate badass! The other players online also 
 seem very friendly and I never exerienced any problems with connection or servers.
  
  Graphics: The game has some brilliant graphics to! The landscapes are beautiful and the character 
 and creature modelling is very nice too. The spell effects are brilliant and so overall has some 
 of the best graphics I've seen in a PC game.
  
  Sound: The musical score is very nice and is conducted by Jeremy Soule who also worker on the likes 
 of Star Wars KOTOR and KOTOR 2 and Dungeon Siege 2. The voice over is overall very nice and the 
 sound effects for spells and stuff are very nice too.
  
  Value: Excellent value for money! I mean, no monthly fees! What more can I say?
  
  Overall 
 a brillaint game and make sure to read my review of World of Warcraft and look at the score to 
 see which one I think is better. You may be surprised! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PikeWake
Rating: 6.6
Date: Dec 19, 2005 4:53 pm PT
Review:  I'll try to avoid repeating what others have already said about this game, since there isn't much 
 to add regarding the superb graphics, lack of fees etc. 
  I believe that some the hype and most of the disappointment with this game comes from the fact 
 that is being compared to games like World of Warcraft and Everquest II. When I bought the game 
 I had these kinds of MMORPGs in mind and was somewhat disappointed. There isn't enough depth in 
 the character concepts for me to regard this an RPG at all. Even City of Heroes, with its rather 
 limited character system, has more to offer. Since I'm not much of a PvP: er, that part of the game 
 is lost on me and I often find little reason to team up with other players apart from the fact 
 that it's fun chatting with them...
  With that said, I think it's unfair do compare Guild Wars to the above mentioned titles. If I had 
 been told it was more like a very advanced Diablo, I would probably have been a lot happier with 
 what I bought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uber_Pwn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 19, 2005 9:50 am PT
Review:  This game owns, even though its hard to find a party thats not a couple of stupid noobs when you 
 get to thirsty river in crystal desert , but yeah, it owns, and if you think lvl 20 max will make 
 this game boring soon, your wrong, you can still try the other classes and beat the game with them, 
 and you can be a runner too if you like (Runner's are people who get you to another place for money 
 or for free, there are monsters out there you know, and some good enough to kill you) But the game 
 does get fun when you get to kytra, new skills, new armor, and did I say it looks nice? 
  That $59.99 that I spent on this game didn't make me regret it (the game is probally cheaper since 
 I bought this game a pretty long time ago) 
  So people who think this game sucks, you either never played the game and are a noob, or just have 
 a sour taste for good games :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dead-eye11
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 18, 2005 9:21 pm PT
Review:  I think this game is simply awesome. Aside from the usual RPG game, there is also a player versus 
 player mode, which is already tons and tons of fun. The actual storyline is also pretty cool, and 
 the cooperative missions in between make it a sweet game to play. Not only can you play on your 
 own, but you can team up with players from all around the world to complete your mission. Plus 
 you can create player guilds, and play other guilds online. At the same time, the top guilds will 
 be recognized on the web. There is just so much to do in this role playing game, and it has the 
 essence, that it will never get boring. There are many professions you can choose from, so even 
 after you beat the game, there are other scenes and quests you can discover and go on with your 
 other profession charactacters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 18, 2005 12:59 pm PT
Review:  As popular as games like EverQuest and World of Warcraft are, some gamers simply can't justify 
 paying ten dollars every month to continue playing the same game. As fun and addictive as many 
 real-time strategy games are, RTS fans often feel the absence of persistent worlds online. For 
 both these crowds, Guild Wars is probably the best thing ever to happen.
  
  The gameplay here combines a massive online world with a highly individualized experience. Along 
 the lines of the upcoming Dungeons & Dragons Online model, Guild Wars starts you off in an EverQuest 
 type of town, full of different players running around. In town, players can trade with each other, 
 chat with everyone, or form alliances. Once a party embarks on a mission, however, and leaves town, 
 a private copy of the countryside loads for that party alone. So all the monsters and bosses in 
 the forests, fields, and dungeons are for that party alone to slaughter. Once the team members 
 enter another town, they rejoin the general population.
  
  For fans of MMORPGs, this setup is a compromise of sorts. The advantages are sizeable. You can 
 choose exactly whom you play and fight alongside, without random players coming along to steal 
 your kills. Perhaps best of all, you don't have to pay ten dollars every month. The biggest disadvantage, 
 however, is that your party is always on its own. Once you leave town, you won't get random encounters 
 with friendly adventurers, and if enemies start to overwhelm you, you can't simply yell, "Help!" 
 and wait for good citizens to come rescue you. The only other big complaint is that since you're 
 basically on your own, it often seems like an open-ended RPG (where you can be as evil as you want) . 
 Unlike truly open-ended RPGs like Knights of the Old Republic II, however, you can't kill annoying 
 children or non-evil creatures. You can only work for good, and serve people who need help. Being 
 rude to NPCs merely ends dialogues, rather than changing the course of the game or how the NPCs 
 react the next time they see you.
  
  Combat is fun, and a visual treat. At first, the monsters roaming the countryside tend not to attack 
 you or your party on sight (which is good, since you start off predictably as a weakling) , but 
 that will quickly change as you progress through missions and deeper into the world. Melee and 
 distance weapons alike look great in action, and casting a spell during combat looks and feels 
 even better. It's a lot of fun to fire arrows or spells at a monster in the distance, and see it 
 trying to run towards you to attack you before you kill it.
  
  Another great aspect of combat is that you can choose a secondary profession. There are six professions 
 in Guild Wars: Elementalist, Mesmer, Monk, Necromancer, Ranger, and Warrior. Most games force you 
 to choose one path or profession. If you become a Necromancer in Diablo II, you can only learn 
 Necromancer skills. However, in Guild Wars, you can be a Mesmer (an Illusionist, for D&D fans) , 
 but also take on a secondary profession as a Monk (a Cleric in D and D terms) . So you would then 
 be able to cast both subversive and healing spells alike.
  
  As for the PvP combat (or rather, Guild versus Guild combat, hence the game name) , the game offers 
 a couple choices. First, you can choose to start with a PvP character, meaning you'll start at 
 a relatively high level, but not start with any spell-casting skills. Frankly, though, it wouldn't 
 be a good idea to start challenging people without knowing any spells, and it won't nearly be as 
 spectacular to go at it with regular weapons. Spells are a huge part of the combat, so probably 
 the best way to go is to start off as a regular plot character. Then, gain as many spells as you 
 can, and finally, you can start bashing other players' brains in.
  
  Seeing the hustle and bustle of a MMORPG town, playing in massive environments, noticing all the 
 fine visual detail, and the fun combat system make Guild Wars definitely worth the purchase. And 
 hey, even if you don't end up playing it all the time, you won't have to worry about wasting money 
 every month 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michaelgen
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 18, 2005 4:56 am PT
Review:  The game Guild of War is intriguing game that I play.
  What i like best in the game that he have story u can follow and open the map, it doing the game 
 more interesting then many of athers on-line games that i play. You can play different professions 
 like others games Warrior, Ranger, Monk, Elementalist (Mage) : And others professions that no other 
 game have Necromancer who can use the dark art can calling on the spirit of the dead, Mesmer he 
 masters of illusion and control. But the game give u nice thing u can be not only one profession 
 u can have a secondary profession, that give the game more interest, because u need master two 
 profession not one. In the game maximum lvl is 20, but after that lvl the fun is start now as the 
 game cald u faithing with your guild vs ather guild and if your guild wining your guild get better 
 rank it call GVG. You have PVP mode that you in the start get very strong player lvl 20 it very 
 fun. 
  I very recommended this game for all of ages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeNotYou3020
Rating: 7.3
Date: Dec 18, 2005 3:20 am PT
Review:  This game is an amazingly visually stunning game. But, like most MMORPGs it's very difficult to 
 get into unless you're familiar with another MMORPG. I played the game on several occasions, but 
 unfortnately I get lost every time and get stuck at a certain level. I assume that there are missions 
 that guide you on where you need to go to level throughout the game but I unfortunately have yet 
 to find them. The game is very fun non the less. Even for myself aimlessly wandering the lush green 
 environments killing ground worms, and orcs and wolves and collecting the various items they drop, 
 and like the little pack rat I tend to be, hoarding them for fear that I may need them later down 
 the road. I do like the little bartering system they have to purchase different items, it sort 
 of brings a whole midevil age aura to the game. So, even though I have no idea what I"m doing in 
 the game, if you can go right where I went wrong, I definately believe you'll love this game. Plus, 
 NO MONTHY FEES, YAY!!!!
  
  ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alphawolf102
Rating: 3.9
Date: Dec 18, 2005 12:30 am PT
Review:  The game is not really a mmorpg. The quest are boring the pvp is lame. The professions are generic. 
 The professions are geneic well that is something I haven't heard befor. So lets talk. the Pvp 
 is lame the quest are lame the people playing the game are lame. The main point of this game is 
 pvp if I wanted to pvp id play CS: s Graphics are about all that is good about this game. I regret 
 buying it and u probably will too. The game tries to be WoW with Quake but that doesnt work. It 
 tries to have the action of quake and the world of Wow and they dont go together that well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trakan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 17, 2005 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Alright. The gameplay is really, really fun. Also, I love the character creation tool. Alright, 
 it's not THAT good, but I like it anyway.
  Anyway, the gameplay is very KOTRish, which I love, and the weapons rock. I'm still playing it 
 (send a whisper to Smirk Grin: Yours truly!) , and love it. The chat areas.... well, sometimes fun, 
 but people get into huge fights with each other about nothing. To quote Dave Barry, it's like junior 
 high school, except even more pointless. But sometimes you meet nice people, and all foul language 
 is creatively "beeped" out, so it's worth a try.
  All in all, an excellent game, and worth buying especially as there's no monthly subscription fee. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vodka100
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 17, 2005 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a game that can suit anyones playing style. If your not a fantasy or roleplaying 
 fan you can still enjoy the PvP action. In guildwars you can get your moneys worth with just playing 
 the games campaigns. The nice thing about this game is you can log in to play for 15 minutes for 
 15 hours. You can gather a group of NPC's and start a mission. You can go AFK for a half hour and 
 come back and continue where you started. Each mission gives you your own level and map without 
 interference from other people. 1000 people can be playing the same mission but each will have 
 there own zone.. Very cool! This game also brings a different PvP aspect to the game. You can create 
 a PVP character or use your roleplaying one in the PvP arenas. You can chose what you want to do 
 on how much time you have to play, or what you feel like doing. I feel from time to time that I 
 am playing a suped up version of diabo (only in the missions) killing bosses and hoping for rare 
 drops. This is only 1 aspect of the game. Buy this game! I have passed up on WoW and EQ2 to play 
 this one. I have all 3. Happy Gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wiso_Wiso
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2005 5:16 am PT
Review:  The best game I ever played. Absolutly amazing in all aspects, gameplay, graphics (perfect) , +700 
 hours now, perfectly optimized for all PC. Music is stuning, and with the free expansion pack (of 
 music) and the new contents added... I CANT STOP PLAYING!!!!
  
  The PvP system is very good, all the posibilities offered by PvP cause of 75 skills per profession 
 (150 every character) are infinite. And when you have a Guild to play with, the infinite possibilities 
 of this game will be available for you. Then is when you aren't going to stop playing the best 
 game of the history. Recommended in all senses.
  
  Buy it!! And no fees!!
  
  Bye!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LarzaHawk
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 14, 2005 11:19 pm PT
Review:  So far all the trailers I have seen on this game is at the top peak. The raphies are so awesome 
 .And the and sound on the trailers will blow you away .So I can wait to get this game in to my 
 collections too .There is no way that any one who is into rping shouldn't be online for this game. 
 The fantasy artwork is right up at the top of the group .And so many skills and ect to pick from 
 too .All in alll this game will kick rear .All it all if any game rate a prefect score this one 
 comes so close to it .That isn't no joke . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morithius51
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 14, 2005 7:15 pm PT
Review:  At first, I wasn't very excited about Guild Wars. I am an avid player of Dark Age of Camelot, and 
 other MMO's. My brother decided to buy the game, so I decided to take a crack at it. I became addicted 
 quickly. After a while thought, the game can get tiring. Sometimes you get stuck at one mission, 
 and not have anyone to help you. Other than that, this is a great game, definately worth buying. 
 The graphics are great, along with the gameplay. It will keep you coming back for more. Just one 
 more mission, just one more mission, just one more mission. This is also an amazing value, because 
 you don't have to pay per month. If you're looking for an MMO, and you don't want to pay, buy this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fontes_Makua
Rating: 5.6
Date: Dec 14, 2005 3:19 pm PT
Review:  I played it myself not for long, but I'm "sick" of seeing my friend playing that thing... That 
 guy has more than 700 hours of gameplay in that thing, and I just dunno how can he play that thing!!
 
  
  I mean... The game has nice graphics... But that's about it! The sceneries are VERY empty... The 
 enemies look stupid... And the armors are WAY TOO show-off... 
  
  About the sound... DAMN, have you seen "The Lord of the Rings"? 'Cause that's why I'm always hearing 
 in that game!!! RIP-OFF!!! (No, I'm not a fan of LotR, but I do know how do the songs sound like)
 
  
  Gameplay... Ehm... Click on the enemy, and watch your character attack for him/herself... WHAT 
 THE HELL IS THIS??? Haven't you guys heard of something called... gameplay? Seems not...
  
  About the Jobs... They are all wrong!! Monks should punch, not throw magic balls!!! Elementalist... 
 Hello, that's just a lame wizard with another name!! Mesmers... Bah, they shouldn't even BE a main 
 class!! Rangers look stupid... Why do they have to leave their legs wide open every time they throw 
 an arrow? That's just stupid!! And I'm not even talking about the Warrior's dancing...
  
  And they really could put a REAL build up system in that... Strenght, Agility, Inteligence, Luck, 
 etc... DON'T YOU KNOW WHAT THAT IS???
  
  Also, that game is FILLED with graphical bugs, such as going through huge rocks, and seeing plants 
 floating in the air... WTF IS THIS??? Can't these guys make a decent map, for cryin' out loud??? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: britneyyy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2006 11:50 pm PT
Review:  That is try to join counter strike and diablo. The 2 worse games the human kind ever made after 
 GTA.
  (Blizzard is the disgrase for gaming industry) .
  But arena fights with clans was turning out in chaos without control. (very bad)
  I was playing 
 2 beta tests from this game and was much fun then now when i bought the game.
  Game is very easy to master.
  There is no monthly fee!, but for good reason , game can be finished 
 in 2 weeks of play.
  Nice graphic and simple rpg mode. (good for all players but not for real RPG players) .
  good thing 
 is that you can arange skill points all the time in game if you spend it wrong or you want to see 
 what else you can learn with the same skills.
  Music is all the time the same and boring.
  Bad thing is selling and buying items,
  in Horizon we have consigner in every town and you can 
 put your staff for sale in 1 week it stays there and other players can buy it in 7 days,
  here is chaos when some people start to talk on all channel.
  I think the game is easier many 
 times then beta.
  I think after all the game is made like WofW for common gamers not for proffesionals.
  GW is 
 not worth the money especialy not in my country. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killinu
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2005 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars gives you many different types of game play to make even rpg haters want to play it. 
 
  The rpg part has an astonishing story line that has many twist and turns that you would never expect. 
 Each class has there own abilities that can be used for advantige in different missions. The tutorial 
 of the game is the pre-searing or basicly "before the human kingdom of Ascalon falls apart", the 
 tutorial has loads to do and tons of enemies to kill until your ready for the real adventure. The 
 game takes you to many parts of Tyria "their world" from the icy mountains of the Shiverpeaks, 
 to the death bead island the ring of fire.
  Their is also Guilds in this game "hence the name". With these guilds you can create your own custimizable 
 capes and you can get your own Guild hall that your whole guild can go to anytime. You can also 
 grab a few guild members and fight other guilds for rank.
  The other part of the game that i think is the best part is the player v. s player tournaments. 
 This is were you can fight others in teams from 4-8 for fame and glory. There is even a PvP character 
 creation when you log in, so you wont have to play the rpg part of the game to get into the action.
 
  This game is awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlfolkman
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 13, 2005 2:20 am PT
Review:  Ever since this game came out, there has been a lot of debate as to which is better, world of warcraft, 
 or guild wars? Each has some things that beats the other, but overall, I give Guild Wars the edge. 
 In fact, since I bought it, I haven't touched world of warcraft, and wished I hadn't invested the 
 $70 or so into it between the subscription and the game itself.
  
  Guild Wars is, overall, more fun. This is especially true of the non player vs. player aspect. 
 The missions and quests have some variety to them, which is much more than I can say for World 
 of Warcraft. I think most of the reason World of Warcraft has a bigger fan base is largely because 
 of the Warcraft strategy games. I got rather bored of World of Warcraft for a couple of different 
 reasons, one being the lack of game balance (Paladins destroy absolutely everything for the most 
 part) , the other being the utterly sad lack of creativity with the missions. Almost all of them 
 are simply "collect 9 of this" or "kill 12 of that". Pretty mundane, and it gets old REAL quick. 
 The games are pretty much equal in terms of graphics, sound, etc. GW's biggest strength I think 
 is the variety with your character, having a 2nd profession adds a lot to what you can do with 
 him or her. In world of warcraft, there are basically 2 or 3 popular "builds" for each class type, 
 of which there really aren't too many to choose from They all have access to pretty much the same 
 skills/abilities. Guild Wars, by contrast, you can have a variety of skills/powers with your primary 
 profession, and supplement them with several other skills from your second profession. In short, 
 in World of Warcraft, a Shaman is a Shaman, but in Guild Wars, a Warrior can end up using hexes, 
 healing himself or others, or bringing down a fire storm on his foes. The variety of how you can 
 develop your characters blows WoW out of the water, in that aspect. The one thing Wow has on guild 
 wars is the crafting system, which definitely beats GW's hands down. The PvP I give GW a slight 
 edge, only because the character variety makes PvP that much more interesting... there are so many 
 combinations and ways you can develop your character, that you never quite know what you will be 
 up against. I can tell you that with WoW, playng a horde character and having 20 lvl 60 paladins 
 showing up and destroying the whole town almost every time you play gets old pretty quick. The 
 horde vs. alliance is an interesting aspect, but thats about where the PvP value ends. If you're 
 going to go with one or the other, my vote goes to GW, not just because of no subscription fees, 
 but because overall, it is just plain a better game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalpoisoned
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2005 1:54 am PT
Review:  This game has a really nice look to it, and the storyline and world are pretty well done. You can 
 play this game pretty well on a crap computer, but it can still look great on a top of the line 
 model. I liked the way you could mix up any two classes you want, and it makes you feel like you 
 can have more of a say over what your character wants to do than a lot of games. However since 
 you can only go up to level 20 (and it will not take you long to get there) , this isn't used to 
 its best ability. Moving around can be a pain sometimes, as you can get stuck on small edges, can't 
 jump, or have any sort of stance change. There aren't near enough items or gear in this game, even 
 though you can still get a bit of variety. After you've played a couple characters up to level 
 20, and PvP'ed around a good bit, it might get pretty old. One thing I also noticed is that people 
 aren't near as social or personal as they are in other MMO's, so it can be a bit harder to make 
 friends. Bottom line, if you haven't played any other massive multiplayer game, then this will 
 be fun for a while, but if you've played Warcraft or Everquest, this game is far too simple and 
 dull at times. Oh, and no subscription fee is a refreshing thing that more developers should follow. 
 The average gamer doesn't want to pay monthly fees for a game they have already bought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frickinkid
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 12, 2005 3:19 pm PT
Review:  i thought it was pretty sweet.... i like it cause its free and the pvp is good .... my lvl 20 necro 
 is cool i like him... but the sorcerers are AWESOME i love how you can create ur clan and ur clothes 
 and ur cape and.... omg its sweet... i like the spells and all its just kool the graphics are pretty 
 nice.. i expected it to be poor but tis good for a free MMORPG i think alot ppl have fell in love 
 with it. stunningly i thought the missions kind of sucked i dont like to roleplay but hey its kool... i 
 like how there are 2 worlds too the new and nice one which was in the past then they have the present 
 one which it all destroyed and ruined it kool.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Staryoshi87
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 12, 2005 12:50 pm PT
Review:  I played this game during the beta, thought it was quite neat, and now I'm back into it after going 
 through an EQ2 and WoW phase. The other day I decided to reinstall Guild Wars because WoW is on 
 the blink for me, and I'm glad I did. I like the simplistic yet complex system of character custumization. 
 The only thing I don't like is that the max level is 20, and it seems a bit short, because once 
 you do what you can about your only option left is PvP, which I am not a fan of. But I hear an 
 update is on the way, and i"m looking forward to it. Oh yeah, and the most important feature that 
 separates this game from other MMORPGs is that there is NO MONTHLY FEE. That's enough for me to 
 say this game is great, and it's high entertainment and replay value doesn't hurt! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonphoenix123
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 12, 2005 12:16 pm PT
Review:  awesome game
  better than wow
  buy it
  no month fee's!
  
  awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
 awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
 awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
 awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
 awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
 awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
 awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
 awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
 awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
 awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
 awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
 awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
 awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
 awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
 awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
 awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
 awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! awesome! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Veteran
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 11, 2005 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Absolutely awsome game havent got it let myself but everything about this game is top class and 
 i highly recommend it to all people that enjoy online games and fantsy quest games I give this 
 game 100% in my book. The visuals are astounding thee music is great need i say more .
  
  Cool thing about this game is that you pay once off and dont have to pay monthly. 
  
  Also 
 you can change your classes inpvp mode where you start with a level 20 it is awesome you can also 
 play in arena mode where you battle oter online players 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gin_maiden
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2005 5:30 pm PT
Review:  this game takes everything you hated and didn't like from WoW and it does it very well. 
  1) you hated grinding and farming for hours each day, well arena-net does a very good job and takes 
 that away.
  2) spending 10 hours to finish a mission in WoW, arena-net takes that away.
  3) didn't like spending 15bucks per month for WoW, arena-net takes that away with the free online 
 play of arena-net.
  4) didn't like the pvp of WoW, arena-net turns the pvp and gvg into a very fun and non-stop action 
 arena
  
  arena-net has changed the meaning of mmorpg and turned it to wat it was meant to be, fun, non-stop 
 mmorpg game.
  just when you think you have learned everything there is to learn about guild wars, then you will 
 find out there is tons of stuff that you dont already know about.
  the game is just very beautiful to look at with the great graphics it has.
  
  you can have 
 2 skills from 2 different classes for each of your character
  like necromancer-monk, warrior-mesmer, elem-archer, or any other way you like your hero to be like. 
 a total of six different class (new class coming out for the expansion, cant wait) .
  well i have to stop wariting this review and go back and play guild wars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wikid-willy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 9, 2005 5:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great MMO rpg for a few reasons. The graphics are great and realistic, the story, 
 missions, and quests are fun, people are cool, and the coolest thing is, as we all probably no, 
 **NO Monthly fee**
  
  The graphics are very nice. they are really detailed, and realistic, for instance, the reflection 
 in water, shine off metal, and other metal objects, and the clmates ( desert, forest, snowy winter 
 place) make the game world beautiful.
  
  The games newb friendly, and experts will have a challenge in some missions, and most of all pvp 
 and gvg, especially the tournaments.
  You also join a guild, like the name indictates. you can join any guild u want, or make 1. your 
 guild will eventually buy a guild hall ( where u all can meet,, or fight other guilds) and its just 
 cool cuz theres a guild list with announcements and other players on it for some socializing or 
 helping eachother out.
  
  Yay. A good MMO RPG thats FREE. this game is even more awesome because of this. they update the 
 game really often, and every year they make an expansion that will havemore world map, weapons, 
 armor, missions, quest, character classes, etc..
  
  Yea this game is really fun. Try it out, most likely you'll like it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rktPYZQShWz
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 9, 2005 2:57 pm PT
Review:  it is a awsome game two thumbs way up! best MMORPG game ever would say WOW but it has monthly fees 
 the graph perfect gameplay and sound perfect very awsome awssome so! it very good like whern Ascalon 
 gets destroyed and like everyone is like burned and millions are dead also pets are so cool looking 
 the lands are perfect but the pvp needs to be more like WOW it very great also it only game you 
 buy at a store that has free monthly fees it a very great game! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
  
  It is not the best mmorpg game but it is very good the best is WOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkarpHedin
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 9, 2005 10:15 am PT
Review:  The most obvious thing to do when looking at Guild Wars, is to compare it with titles such as World 
 of Warcraft or Everquest, but to do so wouldn't be quite right. You see, every so often, a game 
 comes out that makes you look at a certain genre in a completely different way. Guild Wars is that 
 kind of a game.
  
  On the surface, GW looks like your typical MMORPG.
  You can create your own character, choose your class (or two simultaneously if you want) and all 
 the standard MMORPG stuff that we all have come to know and love. And, let's face it right away, 
 as a standard MMORPG, GW doesn't quite hold up to todays standards. The quests are pretty much 
 the same all the way through, there aren't really that many items and such, and it gets pretty 
 tiresome after a while. But, that's when the real game kicks in!.
  All this time, when playing it as a standard RPG, a completely different game has been lurking 
 in the shadows, watching your every move as you've gained more skills, and gotten better weapons. 
 What I'm talking about is the incredible PvP part of GW, which is what the game really is all about. 
 
  
  You see, these days, MMORPGs aren't looked at as a competitive genre, since there isn't a lot of 
 skill involved besides from pressing the right button at the right time. GW takes this notion, 
 and literally pees all over it. (kind of gross, huh?) . GW serves as a awesome PvP game, if not 
 the best to date, and delivers gametypes similar to TDM, CTF and some other types. So, what's so 
 great about the PvP you ask? Well, I'll tell you. It's not the fact that it resembles a normal 
 multiplayer game, or something like that. It's the fact that it actually takes some skill to play 
 the game. You see, in GW you can only have 8 skills handy at any given time, and you have to choose 
 those skills carefully in order to be successful. And the remarkable thing is, that if you don't 
 have a clue on what you are doing, you'll still have a lot of fun when you first encounter the 
 PvP aspect of GW.
  
  In conclusion, if you're expecting a game like WOW or EQ2, you may want to look somewhere else. 
 However, if you played those sorts of games before, and were disappointed with the PvP portion, 
 you should diffidently pick up GW, as it will probably entertain you for months and months to come! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickmoswen
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 2, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  If you are looking for ground-breaking game play, look somewhere else.
  After playing WoW for about six months I got bored and began to question paying a monthly fee for 
 a game that I no longer used.
  I cancelled my account and bought Guild Wars hoping for a refreshing MMORPG experience.
  I was 
 greatly disappointed. Even compared to WoW this game's story line is shallow. I found myself not 
 caring about my character, his companions, or the world they inhabited within the first hour or 
 two that I played. When I pick up a CRPG I expect a certain level of story/character development. 
 Grinding for stat/skill and equipment upgrades is NOT what a role-playing game is about.
  Unfortunately it is what Guild Wars is about, along with all the other MMORPGS I've played so far.
 
  
  Gameplay: Same old grind... with a trivial skill-set twist
  Graphics: Visually Impressive, for the first 30 minutes
  Sound: Repetitive, Repetitive, Repetitive
 
  Value: $50 & no online fee is cheaper than WoW, except WoW was fun for months
  
  Bummer
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: billbobphil
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 6, 2005 5:03 pm PT
Review:  i have a brand new review site comign up look it up at 
  
  Guild wars 
  Warcraft 3
  Elder Scrolls 3: Morrowind 
  NHL 2004
  Warcraft 2
  DOTA 
  
 RObot Rage 
  All games that will be reviewed. Not all in the first issue though. I really hope you check this 
 site out. When you do sign the guest book also add a game you would like reviewed beside your name. 
 Internet games for free prefereed. But if you have a must have review i can do it. And unlike those 
 magazines if you need a review from long ago. I can copy remake and redesign one. There will be 
 polls a lvl system like gamespot and review writing liek game spot (hopefully) Anyways it will 
 be a great site. Check it out at  Thnks Billbobphil felllow gamer 
 and reviewer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragonguy901
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 5, 2005 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars introduces a new form of community within MMORPGs. One of the many things that is great 
 about this game is the guilds. Although they could use more ranks the feeling of being in one is 
 great. THis games is challenging and is in overall a great RPG. They need to increase the level 
 cap, and add more classes, but those are the only improvements i could suggest. Besides they're 
 supposively adding a physics engine in the sequel. Not only is this a great game, but there is 
 NO monthly fee! Compare this to WOW which has a 15$ monthly fee, and still many people believe 
 it is better! Please buy guild wars today and look forr Counter Force. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lepricorn
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2005 10:54 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best i have ever played but i think that lord of the ring online will give it 
 a run for its money but all in all it is pro u cant beat it and WoW is **** not even a match for 
 GW not much can stand up to its might
  
  u will want a lot of time on ur hands because this game very highly addictive
  
  its graphics 
 pwns
  its gameplay pwns
  its sound pwns
  its value pwns
  
  the only let down is u can only get to lvl 20 and there are not enough weapons and armour to choose 
 from but the expansion will change that.
  
  ALL U NOOBS THAT DONT LIKE IT CAN GET **** AND PISS OFF 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wilmc
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 4, 2005 12:02 pm PT
Review:  guild wars does a lot for the MMO genre, it completely rids teh bad things u find in an MMO. noobs 
 are most welcome in this game and experts are too (while more of teh hardcore players would rather 
 switch to WoW or Lineage II) a great starter MMO and its perfect for all those poeple who don't 
 have a very powerful pc to play everquest (or a game thats has similar syqstem req.) the best part 
 about GW is the MOnthly fee... THERE IS NONE!!! although guild wars isn't a full MMORPG its still 
 very similar. the game has a average PVE (player verses Enviroment) , u go around, accpet quest, 
 do quests, level, repeat. u will do that a lot in PVE. But the thing that makes GW really shine 
 is teh PVP (player verese player) . here u have to protect your guild lord and kill you're ooponents 
 guild lord. for just normal pvp u ahve to eliminate the enemy. there are different modes. you can 
 decide to just create a normal pve character and play in pvp or gvg with him/her. or u can create 
 a pvp only character which gives you a max lv. 20 character thats premade by Arena net themselves. 
 the game has a lot of features that most hardcore players will NOT like. but every1 else is most 
 welcome! its an awesome game expierence that you really can't find anywhere else! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: empion
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 4, 2005 11:39 am PT
Review:  If you looking for a RPG multiplayer game that is free this is your only choice. It have so many 
 spells, fantastic graphic, and fun.
  Gameplay: It not taht great. The game does not offer anything that keep you playing like warcraft. 
 Plus the monster, it the asme thign everywhere i go. Can not they make more mosnter. There alot 
 of spell, but the spell suck. You it all seem the same and it is not look that great. Though alot 
 of spell mean alot strategies. The maximum level is twenty. What the hell. It does not have to 
 be like 100 but at least be fifty. Though it offer PvP style which is pretty fun. The maximum character 
 you can have is four. Well i though that is suck its should be 5. (8/10)
  Graphic: It pretty good, one thing is missing. Time! There no day and night. Monsters ate all the 
 same, wait i already said that. (8/10)
  Story Line: I can not even keep track of the story line. I know little bit of what going on but 
 it jump everhwere it does not make sense. The story line did not forshadow anything. It suck. (5/10)
 
  Control: The control is pretty good. Though it hard to keep track of and i keep pressing the wrong 
 one. (8/10)
  Sound: It pretty good. Though sometime it the same thing. Nonetheless its good. (9/10)
  Overall 
 I give it 7.6 
  Notes: I rate game very strict the highest i gave ever is 9.0 so 7.6 is pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killerjoe17
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 4, 2005 7:38 am PT
Review:  This game almost has it all but they could fix on some stuff like the pvp why should you start 
 on the max lvl and why is the max lvl only 20, and one more is when you log out it should go to 
 your characters not the login screen and when do you log out it should show your weapons and shield 
 if you have one. But here are the goods, Fighting system, monsters, weapons, dyes, armor looks 
 cool, like the crafting materials, like how when you get a 1000 gold and turn into a plattium piece 
 and can wait for the expansion pack which will come in january where they will add a the assassin 
 class and add more stuff to the game. This game is in my top ten list heres my list 
  
  My PC top ten list like it 
  1. World of warcraft
  2. Everquest
  3. Guildwars
  4. City of villians
 
  5. City of heroes
  6. Sims 2
  7. Doom3
  8. Lord of the rings
  9. Diablo
  10. Sims 2 expansion sets 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixty7velle
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 3, 2005 9:48 pm PT
Review:  I'm normally a RTS or FPS game player but I decided to try out an online RPG for once. I'm really 
 impressed on how smothely the game runs. I haven't found any flaws so far. The gameplay can be 
 quite tedious at times mainly due to backtracking. I'm not really sure of what I'm doing or why 
 I'm doing it, but I can't stop doing it. The only suggestion I have for newcomers is to make a 
 mental note of where people are you are trying to find stuff to exchange with them, if you cant 
 find the people the items will just be taking up space. Anyways, this is a huge change from RTS 
 games but is really a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nubie453
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 3, 2005 9:36 pm PT
Review:  The Game was great but i got very bored of it and i have no intentions of going back on it in fact 
 all the armor was a low selection and the weapons to and you do the same thing over and over this 
 games only meant for people with spare time bc it takes along time to advance and it just gets 
 to boring id rather watch fake wrestling now ill give my stuff away on my acount if u want i have 
 a some good stuff! first person to leave me a comment back will get a niffty shield and some other 
 stuff i thi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilgrab
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 3, 2005 7:48 pm PT
Review:  This game was just awsome! i loved it so much. One of the best grapichal games i have ever seen. 
 and it's free what more could u ask for? even though there may be some limations, like ummm...... 
 uhhhhhh....*scratches head* *looks on internet for bad reviews* o here's ONE you can only lvl up 
 to 20. but that is the only thing, and it is not even that bad. and i think the reason is for because, 
 there is a tournament system in the game. called pvp (player-versus-player) and if someone had 
 a group of lvl 64's and the other group had a group of lvl 24's the lvl 24's would be raped. u 
 know? its just better for the ppl that want to play Guild Wars to have fun, and enjoy the beauty 
 and music and power, not kill every frickin thing there. and the system forces you to have strategy. 
 u have to say first disable their elemenist bye draining all his energy, then attack him with the 
 warrior, ect. same thing when u get into later in the game. its start gettin rlly challenging (not 
 rlllllly challangeing, just challenging so it's fun) .
  u have to battle say lvl 26's or 30's ect. so it get's rlly fun. thats just a little bit u can 
 find in the game. like i said before it is AWSOME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blaze0506
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 3, 2005 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Guild wars pretty much achieved what it set out to do, and that was to make a fun, competitive 
 rpg that rewards strategy and skill rather than hours played. They did an admirable job with balancing 
 item hunt with leveling with competition, giving it a good overall gameplay. The graphics and sound 
 are clean and polished, but nothing awe-inspiring. The environment are great, but the npc are a 
 bit lacking. Although solid and somewhat imprssive, it lacks an awef factor, giving these two categories 
 a solid 8.
  
  The game really shines in terms of replay value. I played for dozens of hours during the beta weekends 
 and I feel as though I havent even gotten started yet. The variety in the this game is excellent. 
 I never felt as though I would get bored of it. The game offers stiff challenge in pve, and really 
 shines in pvp. The only true complaint I would have is the lack of a viable trading system and 
 some repetitive NPC and weapon skins. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hertrix
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2005 4:33 pm PT
Review:  At first when I heard of this game, I wasn't exaclty excited to buy it instantly. But one of my 
 friends showed me it and I instantly fell in love with it. Whoever doesn't like this game is just 
 a person who hates electronics in general. This game has everything! Excitement, action, and a 
 huge variety of skills, weapons, and characters. I would pay this threefold just to get the game 
 again. Guild Wars is definetly a 10 out of 10 on my list! I love the assortment of all of the skills 
 and attacks. The graphics and movements are very fluid and fit the game perfectly. The controls 
 are very simple and easy to learn. Out of all the online games out there, I would recommend this 
 one to every person who was interested in a MOM game. A++ for performance and gameplay!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hot80wmsxsauce
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 3, 2005 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Guild wars is by far the best game I've ever played. It has a great mix of fun, violence, quests, 
 and money making. This game is very hard though, and usually you need teams of 4+ to beat certain 
 tasks or quests. But that is what makes it fun. Its fun when you have too sneak around monsters 
 in a team. It is also easy to mess up. The only flaws are that the highestlevel you can get in this 
 game is 20, making it fairly short. You also have to buy the disk, which is $50, but after that 
 you dont need anymore payments. All aroundthe best game as i said, and i love it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cski00
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 1, 2005 10:40 am PT
Review:  Of all of the myriad MMO games, there is none similar to Guild Wars. The most notable thing that 
 you will notice is that your wallet won't empty every month. There is not montly fee for the game. 
 The graphics are close to par with the MMOs with montly fees, and the soundtrack is AMAZING. You 
 may ask then, what about lag. Well, there isn't really any. In two hours of play time, you encounter 
 30 seconds of lag, at most. There severs also never shut down either. To patch the game, all you 
 need to do is play, and it downloads in the background. Onto the actual gameplay. Each character 
 can choose two professions from a possible six, with a primary and seconday profession. Each profession 
 has a skill that you can only get by having it as a primary. Each profession has around 150 skills 
 to choose from, so with two, well, you have a lot of choices. When you leave a town, you choose 
 the 8 skills that you will bring into the wilderness, so finding skills that work together is a 
 great stategy element. The storyline isn't as varied as some may want it to be, but thats not where 
 this game is supposed to shine. As the tile suggests, this game is about PvP. You can even build 
 a PvP only charcter that starts at max level and unlock skills for them as you play. This is great 
 as you don't need to grind monsters in order to get better swag. There are 3 ways to PvP. The first 
 is in the arena, where random teams of four go against each other and if you win, you see how long 
 you can last. This is good, but you don't always get a balanced group. The second way is the Primeval 
 Kings tournament. You and 7 of your friends make a team and try to make it through various stages 
 of competition and eventually win for yourself and your country. By winning the top battle and 
 holding onto it, you can unlock bonus areas the area that you are from. The third way is through 
 a Guild Battle. Once your guild has a hall, you can challenge other guilds to combat to try to 
 make it up the ladder rankings and be the best guild in the world. For any person interested in 
 a great PvP expreience, there is none better than Guild Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arseonist
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 30, 2005 7:49 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is an interesting beast, there can be no argument about that. It's hard to classify 
 it into any certain genre, as it borrows from many, yet doesn't feel like a rip-off. 
  As the game begins, you create a character with the somewhat limited character-creation tools. 
 You can tweak appearence to a certain extent, but it's nowhere near what has been done in other 
 games. After you create a character, you are thrust into the game world, which is probably quite 
 unlike what you have experienced in online rpgs. Instead of a free-roaming overworld kind of map, 
 the game is broken down into zones. Because of this, you will only be exploring with 7 of your 
 friends at the most. Speaking of exploring, the game feels very linear, with no jumping or swimming 
 of any sort.
  What the game does offer, however, is a beautiful world in which your character actually (get this) 
 takes part in quests that advance a central story line. The plot is somewhat lacking, but it feels 
 good to make some real progress in a game.
  Basically, get this game if you want a story served up with your MMO. You won't be dissapointed, 
 especially with the greatest of all inventions, the dismissal of a monthly fee. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lild1425
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 30, 2005 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: By far the most addictive game I have ever played. Controls are quite easy. However, 
 missions tend to be quite long and monotonous. Because they are quite long, people sometimes must 
 leave, leaving you basically to fend for yourself. Character development is quite good although 
 once you reach a certain point (level 12 or so) you basically get stuck because missions are way 
 too difficult. The spell casting is pretty neat and you can hold 8 spells or feats. You may also 
 have 4 characters and may participate in player vs. player, which is really fun to test your skills 
 and strength. Basically, the gameplay is pretty solid.
  
  Graphics: Nothing to complain about here. The creatures and spells look very nice and the environments 
 look stunning. This is a strong point to the game.
  
  Sound: The songs themselves are really well done and reflect the environment they are played in. 
 The only problem is that there is not enough music especially since its addictive and you end up 
 playing for hours.
  
  Value: Extremelely addicting when you first get it, but after you beat the game once or just after 
 playing a long while, you will just lose steam and never touch the game again.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: One of the best games I have ever played with awesome environments and story with 
 a stellar gameplay. There is not much to complain about since ArenaNet keeps updating Guild Wars 
 based on feedback from the players which is great and keeps Guild Wars fun and interesting. It 
 takes awhile to learn all the ins and outs, but once you do it is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robwdevore
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 29, 2005 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a great game for a lot of good reasons. First and foremost, it does what any good 
 role-playing game should do: It creates a world that you can get lost in. There are lots of areas 
 to explore, and even more quests to do. The game offers both a single player story mode, as well 
 as a player vs. player mode, so no matter what your preference is, you get what you want. Graphically, 
 the game looks fantastic. It's not Quake 4, but it's impressive nonetheless. Furthermore, the game 
 is blissfully abscent of monthly fees usually associated with mmo's, so you can game on without 
 taking one in the pocket book. As far as gameplay is concerned, I'd say it's best described as 
 Diablo II on steroids. It's simple to get the hang of, but there's also room for quite a bit of 
 strategy. The bottom line is that if you're looking for an awesome role-playing game, and you don't 
 feel like paying monthly fees, this game is a must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 99bottles
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2005 7:31 pm PT
Review:  This game to me was a great WoW replacer because well its free. I had it the 1st day it came out 
 and well i loved it i still play it. I'm actually a part of an awsome guild. 
  
  The enviroment is one of the most friendliest i've seen n a mmorpg. i was impressed by the graphics 
 and how it is still playable on dial-up. 
  
  The character choice is very diverse and well the character modles are also unique. i suggest it 
 as a 1st mmorpg if you are not familiar with them. 
  
  To tell you the truth mostly the monk and warrior is what is needed the most in most missions. 
 But some other missions require ranged characters like the elementalist ranger necro (sometimes) 
 and the mesmer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DbSolutions
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2005 12:56 am PT
Review:  This game is refreshing for two things that it provides and doesnt provide.
  
  The fact that you buy the game and then play with no recurring monthly fess is a nice refreshing 
 way to play. Coming from a fee based game that could not figure out how to do things this is important.
 
  
  Also the fact that if even if you dont want to group they have factored that in at least for a 
 while in the beginning with the fact that you can get miniion nps that for the most part are effective 
 is nice. I havent had to group with another as a rule so far as I can get these minions and hunt 
 with them instead.
  
  Though the game is confusing at first as I had to learn a new ui people were nice enough to help 
 me through that learnign curve. 
  
  Is the game spot on perfect no no game ever is but this comes close as I can find items with one 
 character and trade them to others I ahve on my account simply by placing on a storage person. 
 This si nice as I can find soemthign nice I can use and not have to ahve a hundred accounts jsut 
 to trade tiems to other toons I ahve.
  
  Kep up the good work and keep your vision dont change it cause you think that peopel wont notice. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kirby1256
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 28, 2005 8:12 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is easily one of the best MMORPG available. Although it doesn't compare with the big 
 MMORPGs such as World of Warcraft or Star Wars Galaxies, it's definitely the best bang for your 
 buck. There's no subscriptions or hidden fees which is the main reason why I bought Guild Wars 
 in the first place.
  
  The gameplay is unlike other online rpgs; instead of spending countless hours of killing creatures 
 over and over and over in hope of getting your level up, Guild Wars offers lots of variety in its 
 gameplay. It feels that in Guild Wars you are continuously making progress with your character, 
 whether it be new skills, better equipment, or just simply leveling up.
  
  The game also offer plenty of replay value, which is expected in an online rpg. After all of the 
 game's missions and quests have been completed with one character, it is easy to create a new character 
 with a different primary and secondary profession and jump into the game again because the game 
 seems much different with a different character.
  
  If you get tired of the main game, there's always pvp which fits the game perfectly. The max level 
 is only 20, but I see it as a wonderful idea. This allows players to be closer together in character 
 strength. There are no longer people who dominate in pvp from spending countless hours of leveling 
 up.
  
  All in all, Guild Wars is a great game packed with replay value and just plain fun. If you are 
 considering to buy this game, do so, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liraelrocks
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2005 5:44 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game with incredible graphics. Although the PvP elements are very good, the role 
 playing part needs some work. At the moment, the max level is 20 and it is not that hard to get 
 up there. After one to two months of play, I had already beaten the game. Also, all the quests 
 and missions requires you to go with a group. A lot of the time it was hard for me to find someone 
 that would help me and the henchmen are not very smart. Overall, I find this to be a very good 
 game worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lokirth_Typhoon
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 28, 2005 4:49 pm PT
Review:  I'll be honest. I bought Guild Wars as an alternative to that OTHER critically acclaimed MMORPG 
 (I'm looking at you, World of Warcraft!) . I'm cheap, and with my original income, there was no 
 way in hell I'd be able to afford a monthly payment plan, hence making almost any MMO completely 
 useless. Guild Wars was SO a second choice. Given these facts, I marched into GW with a sense of 
 pre-underwhelming jaded gamer judgement. Don't look at me like that. You've all done it before, 
 and you know it. Even with my pre-judgement, I liked the game. It's well done, I have to admit, 
 and if you're short on cash, a good alternative to WoW.
  
  First of all, let's look at the graphics, one of the game's strongest points. I absolutely loved 
 GW's sun- and bloom-drenched landscapes. Reminded me alot of Jade Empire, actually. Picture, if 
 you will, the brightest, most peaceful day you've ever seen. Now... add about ten times more sunshine 
 and a few bloodthirsty monsters and you've got the general idea of most of the begining of Guild 
 Wars. The landscapes differ a little bit more later. They go from beautiful peaceful village to 
 beautiful scarred countryside to beautiful caves full of undead to beautiful tropical beaches and 
 jungles, and of course, beautiful deadly deserts. The whole game has a nice air of completion, 
 and least as far as most character animations and landscapes go. I do, however, have one complaint. 
 In the cinematics in missions, characters will speak, move around, and generally interact with 
 the environment, but their lips do not move. The people of Ascalon, aparently, have mastered telepathy.
 
  
  Onto the sound. The voice acting, at least in my opinion, is pretty great. This is, of course, 
 from the point of view of somebody who hasn't yet completely finished the game and hopefully hasn't 
 encountered the full cast of characters that there is to see. Voice acting, you'll get mostly in 
 mission cinematics, so if you don't like it, wait a minute or two and the bad noises are gone, 
 mm'kay? The battle sounds could have used a little more variety, but as a whole, the game's sound 
 department handled themselves quite well. If any of you reading this are anime fans, you're sure 
 to recognize a few of your characters' voices, most likely the ranger first. If I'm not mistaken, 
 the part of the male ranger is played by none other than Richard Ian Cox, Mr. Inu Yasha himself. 
 It really would not surprise me to find out I was right. He's done more than a few video games 
 in the past few years.
  
  Gameplay. Guild Wars, how you scorn me. Having sampled World of Warcraft at my friend's house, 
 I became used to a world of complete freedom, where you could run almost anywhere, and if you couldn't 
 quite reach that one spot, you could find some way to jump to it. Guild Wars is not quite so free. 
 For one, there's no jump button, and the game also gives you a sense of extreme linearity. You're 
 not rewarded in the least for going off the beaten path, mostly because there is no "off the beaten 
 path" to go into. GW is loaded with invisible walls. This really irked me. I like non-linear games. 
 I also found that I didn't really need to complete the quests to move ahead in the game. The missions, 
 which advanced the story, gave me plenty of experience and new areas to farm for XP and gold. With 
 all this, the quests seem pretty tacked-on and useless to me. But hey, that's just me.
  
  As for the story, it's your standard fantasy yarn. Invading monstrous army, foolish king, brave 
 young prince, greatly outnumbered but noble people, yada, yada, yada. The writers didn't hit as 
 many clichs as most normally do, so I managed to overlook these details. Besides, how many good 
 games do you know today with decent stories? Too few, my friends, too few. It's pretty sad, if 
 you ask me. It's not a tear-jerking story, either, but it does contain its share of tradgedy, I 
 suppose. The problem is, since this is an MMO, the developers don't spend enough time creating 
 believable NPC's with likable qualities. The ones that die, you don't really miss them, and it 
 feels like you should. But maybe I'm just heartless.
  
  So, I suppose that's all that need's saying about Guild Wars, other than the fact that it's a great 
 game that's free to play. It's no World of Warcraft, but really, there isn't much to lose if you 
 buy the game. I'd say go out and get it. Just don't expect a huge and non-linear world to explore. 
 Guild Wars is different, and that's part of what gives it its charm. If you're looking for that 
 final push to decide to go out and buy the game, I say go for it, especially if you're low on cash 
 and can't afford a monthly payment plan. If, however, you have the money to shell out for WoW, 
 I'd suggest getting that game. I hope I've been of some help. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GaM67
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 28, 2005 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars has refined online gaming, taking it to a whole new level, and does many things other 
 MMO's try to do, but very few can actually accomplish. 
  
  Guild Wars is a great way to start off if youve never played this genre before. There is NO monthly 
 fee, and it is rather simple to pick up and play, although later you will need to think a bit more 
 to accomplish certain things.
  
  The graphics in the game are very impressive. The whole game just looks so bright. They really 
 do add to the whole experience.
  
  The music is outstanding for some, but really it depends what you like listening to. 
  
  As 
 far as customizing your characters goes, there isnt really too much. You can dye your equipment.. get 
 different armour sets and weapons. Other MMO's definately have alot more character customizing 
 options. You wont feel quite so unique in Guild Wars.
  
  The gameplay is rather fast, especially in pvp. Luckilly the gameplay is simple, but if you wish 
 to prevail in some of the end-game missions, and the competitive pvp, you will need to use your 
 knoledge and tactics.
  
  Some of the missions in the game are quite hard. In fact i know some of them have stopped people 
 from playing the game. Including me. 
  
  A bit about guilds.. the game does work quite nicely for the casual gamer that doesnt have much 
 time to spend.. but if you intend to be in a competitive guild or a good one you will need to be 
 active. Especially if you are the leader. I dont encourage anyone to make a guild if they are not 
 active players. It just doesnt work very well. If you do however have lots of time. The great! 
 go ahead make a guild, buy a hall, get lots of members do lots of great things together. Guilds 
 really make up alot of the experience in Guild Wars. You will make new friends and such. You will 
 have a very different experience in this game. And it is a great one. 
  
  Overall, unfortunately, it usually.. does come down to "Is this game better than World of Warcraft". 
 Well... for some, the reason your playing Guild Wars is becuase there is no monthly fee, but if 
 WoW had no monthly fee, youd be playing that instead. Infact i sometimes feel that way myself. 
 But Guild Wars truly is a great game for what it tries to achieve, and is one of the BEST experiences 
 ive ever had, and will still have. 
  
  If your just starting to get into MMOS this is THE place to start. 
  
  -Gam
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genesys_4
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 27, 2005 8:28 pm PT
Review:  when I first saw the graphics of this game, I was astonished. it is really nice for a MMORPG... and 
 hell it's FREE. this should be the starter's MMORPG (like me) . the game's really nice. its gameplay 
 is diablo-like but even better. since it's MMORPG better make sure u have friends to play with 
 or u'll stuck with some godfathers of this game (which at times offer their services for some cost, 
 that's suck) . hey if u know ur ways u can even make friend over the net. it's nice u will exp the 
 vast world of this game and not bored with it. I dunno why WoW is better- haven't try it though. 
 enjoy it with ur friends as for my advice. try it- it's damn nice on its on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canadaboy288
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 27, 2005 1:51 pm PT
Review:  I bought guild wars and was so excited cause i was hoping for a mix of diablo II and Wow but i 
 was wrong, game can be boring and is almost impossible to do quests by urself. good for some people 
 but can get very boring. If your goin to buy this gmae i suggest that you get a buddy who has played 
 for a while to help you out and get you some items cause unlike diablo II, it is very hard to find 
 good items. This game also doesnt give you much options to make your characters traits truely unique 
 and stand out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bokiko
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2005 7:23 am PT
Review:  This is one of the most balanced game i have ever played in my life ,
  the story is really cool and intersting
  in game you have to make some series dissetions that 
 will effect you for ever with your caracture so you have to chose carefuly and be ready to handle 
 your dessition
  you will be one of ascalon city member and you will fight for it , and i didnt finish the game 
 yet but really you will search the entire internet to find how does the story ends , and trust 
 me .. i really didnt get any answers yet !
  the map is really big you will spend alot of time in this game , i advise that not to play any 
 other game with it , because you will be thinking of it even when you are alon !
  
  the ghraphic is much better than WOW and the control is much easier , you have think befor you 
 do anything , and remmber that the game is balanced so even if you are like level 10 that wont 
 matter a bunch of level 4 enemies of beating you to dead !
  
  all in all , buy the game if you have alot time to spend , bulding your caracter will allow you 
 to think alot also ,
  i used 64 NIVIDIA card with it and it worked just fine :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tron6691
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 22, 2005 11:54 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw this game i was like i have to have this every one was playing it, all my mates 
 most people i know, they was saying you gotta get it man, so i said i wana see it first so i went 
 round to my mates to have a look at it and it was amazing the graphics the sound the mosters, everything!!
 
  
  So later on i told my mum can i have guild wars, she said no..
  About 4 months later when i compltly forgot about it we went town for some cloths and to my amazement 
 i saw it.. GuildWars special edition $35.00
  I said mum i gotta have this please!! she said ok ok ok.. :D
  From this day am still playing 
 it lol.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flipisgod
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 21, 2005 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is definately one of a Kind. I played this on and off again all summer long. It is graphically 
 beautful and the environments are well varied. Very much like Diablo on steroids. online play never 
 feels online - I had no connection breaks of slowdowns to speak of. The game is immense - you could 
 play this one for weeks.
  
  My one major complaint that really, really lowers the value of the game are the preset missions. 
 Throughout the game, when you die during quests or wandering about, you are resurrected with a 
 hit to your health and magic. 
  
  In the missions however, once you die, you must start the entire mission again. Since most missions 
 end with a tougher boss or battle this is terribly frustrating - especially since some are rather 
 long. So much so that I finally stopped playing the game. I just recently picked it up again and 
 tried a mission where I left off - got killed twice at the end (spending 90 minutes each time to 
 get there. And so back on the shelf it went.
  
  Definately worth the money but be prepared for some frustration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R_Guardian2000
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 21, 2005 10:32 am PT
Review:  I've been playing Guild Wars for about three months now, and the game really hasn't felt old yet. 
 Which is a really good thing. Now since you can't play the game offline you would think that you 
 need high-speed internet. The game can be played over dial-up when I'm at home! And since it doesn't 
 need 18 different ports, I can play it from behind my university firewall, which is a MAJOR plus. 
 Other games like Battlefield 2 need many different ports opened, which is not something a university 
 administrator is going to do.
  
  The gameplay is easy to understand, without a huge learning curve neccessary for the basics. To 
 master the game takes a full run through all the missions. If you're starting out I would suggest 
 playing as a warrior/monk you get heavy armor and you can heal yourself. The game is a masterwork, 
 and with new content released in the Sorrow's Furnace update, you can expect the game to be playable 
 for a very long time.
  
  However, the game's plotline well, lets just say that I really don't think that there was much 
 thought put into it. Its kinda dumb. I won't reveal the plotline here since it kinda does spoil 
 part of the game.
  
  Oh and the biggest bonus? NO MONTHLY FEE!!
  
  Okay to summarize
  Pros: Game easily playable online, no monthly fee, easy to understand
  Cons: Plot is well dumb 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Booshka
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 20, 2005 4:20 am PT
Review:  This is a good game, cheap to buy, no monthly fee and bags and bags of fun. I've not had a chance 
 to partake in PvP yet, but when levelled, i plan on doing so.
  
  Graphics. Nice, very nice. From the leaves falling off trees to you leaving footprints in the sand 
 which you can use to find your way back, impressive.
  
  Music The music is nice, i've no idea who did it, but whoever it was, did a great job, it's extremely 
 atmospheric.
  
  Playability, the game box comes with a keyboard layout giving you all the info you need to control 
 you chars and the website holds an immense amount of info on crafting for example. So far i have 
 2 characters, a Ranger/Warrior and a Monk/Elemtalist and to say i'm having a blast, is purely an 
 undestatement. I can't seem to praise this game enough, it's just pure fun to play.
  
  Give it a go... its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmessmer
Rating: 5.2
Date: Nov 19, 2005 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars offers some really interesting innovations that expand the on-line RPG experience beyond 
 any of its predecessors, but fails to capitalize on the innovations that its more immediate predecessors 
 have put forth. Being able to travel to various cities immiediately rather than having to trek 
 across the gameworld repeatedly was a nice change, but made those moments when you had to enter 
 into the uncharted wilderness all the more frustrating. I often found myself, after a long excursion 
 into a new area, looking for a town so that I would be able to return to the area easily in the 
 future rather than trying to complete the goals of my quest.
  
  Similarly, making the gameworld instanced was nice since you didn't have to wait for creatures 
 to respawn (or have them respawn right on top of you) , but it also made the game feel more like 
 a single player game than an on-line RPG. Without other people running around, the game often felt 
 rather empty and the cities where you can interact with other people felt more like chatrooms than 
 they did hubs for character interaction.
  
  Also, the emphasis placed on combining skills rather than just gaining power through experience 
 was great in theory, but difficult to really impliment effectively. The action was often too fast 
 to really plan out a strategy and frequent lag times made any ability to really out think rather 
 than overpower your foes virtually impossible.
  
  Finally, the game seems to really do everything in its power to take away all of the individuality 
 that, in my opinion, makes RPGs so much fun. I am surprised that after City of Heroes got so much 
 attention for its costume creation that more designers haven't realized that a lot of gamers want 
 to make a character that feels unique. Guild Wars doesn't even come close. Each profession has 
 a distinct look from the others, but all of the members of the same profession look pretty much 
 identical (there aren't even any different races to at least add that element of difference) . Clothing/armor 
 does little to distinguish characters since, again, within a given profession you pretty much look 
 like everyone else. You can buy dye to at least get a new color scheme, but you have to keep redying 
 your armor everytime you upgrade it, which is rather impractical. Even weapons and items are repetitive 
 and bland and do nothing to give a sense that you've really imparted personality to your character. 
 This aspect of the game was a real dissappointment.
  
  As for the graphics and sound, they are average. The graphics model is solid but, like the characters, 
 often are drab and repetitive. There comes a point at which running through barren mountain landscapes 
 just gets dull. The same is true of the monsters that you face - they are highly repetitive and 
 predictable.
  
  Another huge problem was that the game suffers from a lot of lag, making the pvp portions of the 
 game (which are supposed to be it's strongest feature) virtually unplayable, and making the campaign 
 frustrating. There seem to be constant patches to the game, but these have (for me at least) caused 
 more problems than they have solved. It has gotten to the point that I cringe everytime I see one 
 of the automated updates download.
  
  All in all, the dissapointiments far outweigh the innovations. Hopefully other game designers will 
 play this game and figure out how to implement some of its promising innovations in a more complete 
 and well crafted game. As for game players, stick to World of Warcraft - I know I'll be returning 
 to that game and deleting this one to free up space on my hard drive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vahagn23
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 17, 2005 9:04 pm PT
Review:  THis game is sweet, i played most of the games that the company had created starting from Linage 
 to CoV, and this is the best one, its free for the first thing, the graphics are amazing, and gameplay 
 is good, but the bad thing is that you can only go out and fight in a little group and not with 
 many people, so thats the disapointing part, but the game is still sweet. So yea get the game. 
 My character is Flaming Might and if you ever get on you can send me a message and we can do a 
 mission together i owe my own guild. Get the game if you like serious RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ytanium
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 17, 2005 5:44 am PT
Review:  Well... definitely a good game, no online fees... good quality graphics with a great graphic style 
 and feeling... If you loved Sacred, you'll love this game. Some RPG elements, like miniquests and 
 great quests, pvp is available through "guild wars"... a GREAT graphics, really, without a NASA 
 pc... It has not much "depth"... don't expect a new Planescape (LOL) .. just a good game, without 
 bugs (well I don't find any bug actually) very stable and funny.
  I'm a GM of Dungeons&Dragons and also a player... I love RPGs... and I think that this game is 
 a good game... not particularly for RPG elements... but because it has some RPG "features" with 
 a lot of action and a very nice world...
  could be improved? surely... but actually I think there are no other games online with such compromises... 
 
  
  ... remember... there are no real RPG games online available now... only  
 games, masked... but no real RPG online for now... this one is less chaotic than the others I tried... 
 a lot of them...
  
  trust me... try it.. ;-)
  
  Ytanium
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wetdream42
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 17, 2005 4:36 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is the worst game up to date as far as MMO's go. The graphics are terrible, gameplay 
 is boring, the AI mobs are dumb as bricks and the max lvl you can get is 20! I beat this game in 
 1 week playing only 15 hrs. The classes are basically all the same. This game is basically a WoW 
 in the making. The quests leave you wandering around horribly made levels in search of one character 
 either to talk to or kill and then wander your way back to where you got the quest. PvP in the 
 game is also really bad. This game goes for all flash so your screen is like one huge blast of 
 light. You can't see anything from all the spells going on. You get put with a random team to go 
 kill 5 other people. Repeat over... and over... and over again. Save your money by not buying this 
 piece of junk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felofsymbology
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 16, 2005 6:09 pm PT
Review:  this game is one of the best games i ever played. its perfect. the fighting is great, interactiveness, 
 and it really addicts people. i would know. Its a really fun RPG and should be tried by people. 
 I have a clan with people who always play and can't stop because of its funness. some problems 
 though are that max lvl is 20, some bugs, and very slow way of earning money. So far in this game 
 (what ive seen) the community in this game is nice and helpful. there are very few of those jerks 
 such where there are hordes such as halo and other mature games usuall (no offense) Though iIn 
 all, its a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EchoWitch
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2005 10:56 am PT
Review:  This game is great. Not only is it easy to pick up and play, but its beautiful to look at as well.
 
  
  Add to that the fact that its free, and what more could you want =)
  
  Ok then, a bit more. For the solo players you can solo content, but there will be certainly later 
 on in levels quests that must be done as a group. Unlike most games where you are forced to find 
 other players and must wait around whilst they get themselves ready, Guildwars allows you to have 
 Henchmen. NPC characters of different classes who can group with you and work alongside you in 
 quests.
  
  Fantastic game, great fun. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jarvis100
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 15, 2005 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Ok. Here we go. I'll start with the goods first.
  Goods
  The goods about this game is that the community is very mature.
  No monthy fee for you cheapscates 
 our there!
  The games graphics and music are great.
  The classes are fun to play in, and the arenas are great, as are ofcouse, the guild wars.
  YOu 
 mus join a guild right away so you can get in the guild wars. They are incredibly fun.
  Now the bad parts about Guild Wars.
  The game is only MMO in the cities. When you leave the city 
 only you and your party members are out inside this world.
  The action is very lack luster, even with the spical moves.
  Although the classes are fun, there 
 aren't that many to chose from.
  Some of the quests such as the carry the chest quest can become very repeative and very boring, 
 very fast.
  The cut scenes don't really have to be there.
  And the look of your avatar can't be changed very much.
  This game is very fun, but doesn't have 
 enough filling in it to get me to get up and buy the other expainson packs. Some of you will love 
 this game, however some won't.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blindman_121
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 15, 2005 3:37 am PT
Review:  if u dont like loading befor u go fight u wont like this game so yea, guidl wars is a great game 
 also coz u dont hav to pay to play like world of warcratf and alot of other online role-playing 
 games. it is the best online role-playing game i hav ever played so far so my opinion if go and 
 buy it if ur looking for a game lie this. Make saw u watch the vidia rewiew and stuff. it is a 
 good game and im just putting words in right now so dont bother reading this bit so yea. im just 
 trying to make enought room for it so i can submit it so yea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dieasgrey
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 13, 2005 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is my first Massive MP game ive played since EQ . I was skeptical in buying it. Like 
 most i ended up trying it for the no monthly fee. That being put aside , it is a great game. It 
 has lots going for it and lots going against it like most games.
  Its pros include great group gameplay. Player specific zones so you dont have to fight over camps 
 and spawns like most did in everquest. It is a very simple game to get into and understand. The 
 biggest pro i find is the ability to play solo if you choose. Instead of forming a group of all 
 humans you can create a group of computer henchmen to go with you to travel zones or complete quests. 
 And the storyline driven missions gives the game a direction.
  Now the cons. There is limited character models and armor skins. Not much variety in weapons and 
 armor. and it does get a bit boring after you have completed all the main missions.
  Hopefully the expansion comes out soon.
  
  Bottomline is this is a very good game. You dont 
 have to spend 18 hours a day to keep up with everyone. Choose your won pace .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: outbreak201
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 13, 2005 3:34 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about guild wars i didnt really much care cause i was busy playing world of 
 warcraft., but during the summer im like what the hell and bought it. Let me tell you this game 
 is very addictive. The missions are fun and the dueling is even better. If you are succesful in 
 dueling then u get exp in it and you can unlock things upgrades for pvp only server. Guild wars 
 has a very big world so you can go any where u want to undead caves to the cold frost mountians. 
 Guild wars is the bomb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earthseeker
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 11, 2005 9:48 pm PT
Review:  I r ecommend this game to people that enjoyed d2 and d2 lod. I personally do not like this game 
 for several reasons. The level cap is only 20 which takes about 3 days to get to. The PvP in this 
 game is decent but in comparison to WoW i would definately choose WoW. This game is good because 
 it has free online play but i would rather pay 15 dollars a month for WoW than pay none for this 
 game. I ,like this game because the graphics are great and look realistic. One thing i noticed 
 while i was playing the game was that the landscape of buildings and towers looked blurry. Overall 
 this game is decent but i personally dont like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barkera0
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 11, 2005 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Introduction: I didn't buy Guild Wars when it first came out, because I wasn't sure about it, but 
 i'm so glad I did in the end. Its a very involving game that is based more around a Players skill 
 than just how many levels they can reach, which is nice for a change.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Gameplay is awesome. For those of you that have played ORPGs before you'll be used to the leveling 
 up to rediculously high levels. This is not the case with guild Wars. Skill and strategy is much 
 more important in this game. The level cap is 20, but don't let that put you off. However, if you 
 really are into leveling up as high as you can possibly go, then this may not be the game for you. 
 But if you want hundreds of cool skills, a really good challenge and thinking about how you need 
 to do something, then you'll love this gameplay.
  You control your character with the mouse by clicking where you want them to go, or using WASD. 
 Attacking enemies is just a simple case of clicking on them, but if you want to use skills then, 
 once you have targeted the enemy, you press the number corrosponding to the number skill you want 
 to use. You can carry 8 skills on you at a time. You can go back and change them inside a town 
 or outpost.
  There are six classes to the game; Warrior, Elementalist (Mage) , Monk, Necromancer, Mesmer, Ranger. 
 Each have their owen skills, weapons and abilities. You can also choose a secondary class later 
 in the game.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  The graphics and scenery are beautiful. All the characters look great and realistic. They all look 
 appropriate for their class. The scenery is the best part of the graphics though. It has all been 
 beautifully designed and could not look better. Everything from the tress in the early part of 
 the game to the erupting Volcano's on Ring of Fire.
  
  Sound 7/10:
  This is where I feel a little let down by the game, however new background tracks have been recently 
 released which is helping. Sound effects are great and all very appropriate. However, the background 
 music is just plain boring. There is little variety in it, and I prefer to turn the game sound 
 off and have my own music running instead.
  
  Replay Value: 10/10
  If you liked this game on your first play through I guarantee you will want to play it again. However, 
 to completely finish the game will take a very, very long time. You can have up to four characters 
 so you can change class and start a new character and each class has lots of different skills, 
 so each battle you encounter will be different!
  
  Challenge: 10/10
  If your looking for a challenging, but not overwhelming game, then this is it. The game starts 
 off quite easy. but as the game goes on can get extremely difficult. However, nothign is so hard 
 you'll just give up. It will make you feel as if you almost made it and need to try again. There 
 are hundreds of quests and 24 missions which are part of the main storyline. Some missions can 
 take up to two hours!
  
  Overall 9.2/10: 
  This game is so much fun and I'm still playing it non-stop after at least six months. It just doesn't 
 get titing, and it has everything you could want if you like Fantasy Online RPGs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vectorz
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 11, 2005 11:03 am PT
Review:  Well not quite Hellbreath in 3D but I like to think of it that way, since it was a great free online 
 game, and so is this. (no subscription fee anyways) . I bought the collectors edition, and I've 
 yet to be disapointed. 
  
  Graphics - This is one of the main highlights, not only was the concept art beuitifull but they 
 actualy managed to do something most cant, turn that concept art into reality with out having to 
 dull it down by technical limitations. And even after making the game gourgous everywhere, I never 
 lag and my system never slows down at the highest settings and resolution. A testament to great 
 coding.
  
  Sound - This is a very enjoyable part of the game, like most in game music it sets the mood and 
 it does just that at the right times. Sounds are lush and rich, surrounding you and emersing you 
 into the fantisy setting.
  
  Gameplay - They keep delivering, gameplay is fantastic, especially for people who live busy lifes 
 outside there gaming fantasy's. You can jump right into a group and head out on a mission and be 
 done in around an average of 30-60 minutes depending on if its a mission or a side quest. You can 
 even loan wolf it and bring some henchmen if you dont want to bother with gathering actual people, 
 they can be bad during later missions but as a begginer they are just fine. The main focus is being 
 able to Multi Class, this brings in your own creativity by letting you choose which ones complament 
 eachother. This is a skill game, not a leveling game, so for those of you who dont have time to 
 level up to 60 in WOW, this is the game for you! (just dont expect the open ended world, its more 
 like a path that leads you through the lands, but this does not take away from the exploration 
 one bit) . 
  
  Tilt - Its been praised and I'll praise it again, this has tramendous value to those with little 
 time on there hands but still want to adventure with many other people, they even managed to let 
 you play with peole from other time zones! You can join the international districs and play with 
 korean players, and european. Multi Classing brings a new tilt to MMORPG's.
  
  Value - With an active development team, and a rich community of players from around the world, 
 this game wont be going away any time soon. Allowing for long periods of play or short missions 
 anyone can hop on and get into the fray. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerofshadows
Rating: 4.6
Date: Nov 11, 2005 8:03 am PT
Review:  When i bought this game i was expecting to witness one of the most epic RPG's to unfold before 
 my eyes. After selecting from one of six classes and viewing the intro movie i began to doubt the 
 greatness of this game. The graphics are all right, nothing special. the battle system isn't anything 
 special, and you have to play as a human. The fighting gets repetitive and the enemies are just 
 different shades of previous enemies you defeated. I much more preffered the prolouge Ascalon to 
 the entire world in the proper story line. I know a lot of people like this game, and it has got 
 some good points, i wouldn't buy any sequels or expansions to this game. The style just isn't my 
 cup of tea, and i didn't find it very involving. Although i don't own a copy myself i much prefer 
 Final Fantasy XI Online to Guild Wars, it has a more immersive story, clearer graphics and more 
 options for creating your characters. Another thing is that Guild wars's PVP is just so boring, 
 and most of the people on there try pulling off Leeroys when victory seems within your grips. 
 
  Sorry Guild Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jewunit21
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2005 7:14 pm PT
Review:  ok. if u dont have half-life2... buy that b4 guild wars... but make sure u get guild wars right 
 after half life2... cuz guild wars is amazing
  u can restart it over and over never gets boring u play with ur friends its just crazy. if u liked 
 diablo2 ull LOVVVE this. and theres no paying for online
  this game in fact is ONLY online there is no single player and it is so fun especially being necromancer 
 and just getting an army of undead minions
  
  GO GET THIS GAME NOW U NEED THIS GAME GO GET IT U NEED IT GO GET IT NOW U NEED THIS GAME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steve_dude10
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 10, 2005 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Guild wars is a good game... but just doesn't feel right, like it's missing something.
  
  The good;
  
  First of all, there is NO monthly fees BUT this isn't a true MMORPG. The reason 
 why it isn't is because once you leave a town, your the only one their unless you partied up with 
 a few people before you left, this can be seen as good or bad as it gets rid of a couple problems 
 that most MMORPGs have. Secondly, you don't have to spend much time to be a super power character! 
 The level limit in this game is set to level 20 and if you messed up with your skill points, don't 
 worry, you can just go to a town and switch them around. Also, you won't find items with huge stats 
 on them either. Most items max damage that they can do is about 30. 
  
  The Graphics... These are amazing if you sit there and look at them. They aren't top of the line 
 but when you look at the sceneary... it can be almost breath taking. Everytime I look at a waterfall 
 or something colourfull, It has a misty, shinny look to it that gives it a fantasy or dream like 
 feel. The weird thing is, you don't need a killer GPU to play this on full.
  
  The Bad;
  
  -As with all MMORPGs, if you don't like sitting there mindlessly wacking things and running 
 around, your going to get bored... quick (much like i did) .
  -There's not very much customizing that you can do to your character, you'll often run into your 
 "twin"
  -You feel that there is no unqieness to your character
  -The World isn't constant so it takes away from the fun of seeing people run around in the wilderness 
 
  
  Final Verdict;
  
  Give it a try, If you like MMORPG's then grab this one right away. If you don't, this isn't going 
 to change your mind anytime soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShirohamaX
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 9, 2005 9:40 pm PT
Review:  If you like RPGS, and MMORPGS, and just love doing missions over and over again, this game is a 
 must TRY (not a must have - cause you still might not like it) . 
  
  Gameplay:
  COUNTLESS quests, I didn't even bother doing all of them, just the main quests that lead onto the 
 story. You can talk to various NPCS with an exclatimation mark on their head (sorta like WoW) , 
 and they give you a quest, and upon completion you get X amount of gold/experience. If you like 
 this stuff, go for it, more power to you. The controls are you're stand point and click with some 
 hot keys for skills, also you can use the w-a-s-d keys for movement as well.
  
  Graphics: 
  Great graphics, not amazing, but great. Most computers could probably handle this 
 game. The game has a lot of lighting to it, which I think is a great quality to try and make it 
 more realistic, but sometimes when there is lag (yes, lag exists, even with broadband) or there 
 are just some minor glitches where you move, and thats not pleasant.
  
  Sound:
  Great music in game.
  
  Value: 
  I think its a bit pricey, currently (I believe) 59.99$ CDN, 
 which should have been lowered to 40-50$, but thats just cause I don't have much money to spend 
 :P. But, you get a lot of hours out of this game, if you enjoy RPG's.
  
  I have to be honest, I didn't really finish the game, I got bored. I'm more of an FPS, but I love 
 Diablo II, and World of Warcraft. This game is much like CoH, where its really cool but gets boring 
 fast. This is just my own opinion though. I really like how you can just download the needed data 
 to run the game, instead of installing the whole game (2 discs - a pain) . This game really counts 
 on joining up with a party, and if you don't know anyone in GW, its going to be hard trying to 
 solo the quests, but you can recruit NPC's with you.... but its just not as cool.
  
  This game is NOT for all. If you love RPGS and MMORPGS and can not live without it, you should 
 have already bought this game and have spent 1,000,000 hours (yes a million) playing this game. 
 If you haven't then you just don't love MMORPGS as much as you think.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peavey779
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 9, 2005 10:24 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is either a great game, or not. It is full of addicting aspects, and can be somewhat 
 of a fix when you have those couple hours of nothing to do. The game has two options, you can either 
 play in a world accomplishing missions, or select the Player VS Player (PVP) option and battle 
 people around the world for the chance to conquer the "Hall of Hero's".
  
  In Guild Wars there are 24 game missions and tons of quests to conquer. However, the quests in 
 the game become quite useless in the game since it takes 5000 experience points to level up after 
 level 10, and the quests reward you with 500. The Missions are quite challenging, but at some points 
 too challenging. After about the 15th mission, they become near impossible and you will find yourself 
 immersed in the game for 5 hours at a time retrying a mission with a different 'Party' with other 
 Guild Wars players. 
  
  After I finished the game over a period of 6 months of on and off game play. I decided to try the 
 PVP portion of the game. I created a brand new maxed out Elementalist / Monk and joined a server. 
 I grabbed a party of people and we entered the entrance to the Hall of Hero's. What a waste of 
 time this was, for as soon as we entered the Hall we were demolished at the beginnng with high 
 level ghosts. After 2 hours I finally managed to find a party that got me 'into' the hall. However, 
 I was disapointed to find that it was not actually the hall. It was more like an arena that you 
 fight in, in order to get to the hall. So it was my team Vs a team from Korea. Game over, as soon 
 as we started, for this group of people obviously have been playing as soon as the game was released 
 and annihilated my team in a matter of seconds. 
  
  Therefore, Guild Wars is a game full of challenging game play and an immersive world. However, 
 if it does not catch your attention in the first couple hours of game play, the odds are it won't 
 ever for the rest of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ketaros
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 9, 2005 4:09 am PT
Review:  Playing for almost 10 years all types of adventures and rpgs, and few years trying many MMORPGs 
 I think the Guild Wars answered all my prays, its a amazing game, beultifull, with a great and 
 easy to understand game play.
  
  The fantastic idea of ArenaNet was the worry they had to satisfy both comunities of MMOs, so the 
 PvE and the PvP players, Guild Wars amazinly gave to both sides the right game for them. I have 
 been playing for 6 months now and I can say there I have good friends that loves one of those aspects.
 
  
  But, its clear that Guild Wars is a game more focused on PvP. Wars between guilds, so if you are 
 tired of unbalanced PvPs, come to GW you wont regret.
  
  Best regards all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wingzro
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 8, 2005 4:16 pm PT
Review:  First thing that must be said is that Guild Wars is free, once you pay for the game itself there 
 are no further fees to pay in order for you to play.
  
  Guild Wars is different from other online multiplayer role playing games in that the only places 
 your character interacts with other characters is in towns/cities/villages/etc. The battlefields 
 are an instance created solely for your playing pleasure. This avoids those pesky players who enjoy 
 tormenting serious players by stealing item drops and killing you. The downside to this is exactly 
 what it does, limit the interaction of players. If you are being chased down by a mob of enemy 
 beasts, you won't luck out and have a wandering group of players come along to save your neck.
 
  
  The story of Guild Wars is fairly basic and sometimes you forget what's going on with the story 
 because of all the side quests you can do before doing the storyline missions. Also you can sometimes 
 end up doing missions in alternate orders than what the game intends, which would result in further 
 confusion of what's going on in the storyline.
  
  Gameplay overall is very pleasing. You could lose yourself in hours of play and end up staying 
 up way past your bedtime. Guild Wars is plenty of fun but won't make you feel like you absolutely 
 need to stay on and play "just another hour". You could definitely pick up and play whenever you 
 like, unless you are part of a highly dedicated guild.
  
  Guild Wars' graphics are just fantastic. With all graphical features turned up to the max, you'll 
 find yourself running around the world looking at the environment and everything in it rather than 
 complete your quests/mission.
  
  The developers are highly dedicated to their product and provide plenty of updates to the game. 
 Recently for Halloween the developers changed parts of the game world to give more of a Halloween 
 atmosphere, with fun seasonal games added. Fixes and balancing updates are downloaded automatically 
 everytime the player starts up the game. Unlike manually downloading patches, these auto updates 
 make every player even with the same updates implemented.
  
  In conclusion, Guild Wars can provide hours of fun that seems practically endless. Hundreds of 
 hours can be put into one character and still not be finished with the game. Highly recommended 
 for people who want to experience on online rpg without dealing with monthly fees or annoying individuals 
 that ruin the experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mlesak
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 8, 2005 10:23 am PT
Review:  I pre-ordered the collector's ed of Guild Wars shortly after beginning my (continuing) World of 
 Warcraft addiction. While I still prefer WoW, Guild Wars is in many ways a different kind of MMORPG 
 that offers some improvements to the genre and has plenty of innovations.
  
  The graphics are amazing from the start screen onward. The lighting and movement look better than 
 anything this side of Half-Life 2. The character creation process is extremely detailed and, while 
 most of the male characters look a bit too "metrosexual" for my old school tastes, the female character 
 models are very easy on the eyes.
  
  One of the great innovations to MMORPG gameplay is the "Henchmen" option for group questing. It 
 may seem counterintuitive to the genre, but I tend to prefer solo adventuring in MMORPGs.
  
  Because of real-world commitments (I am a "big kid" with a professional life, a wife & 2 kids) , 
 my play sessions tend to be erratic, sporadic & unpredictable. Spending a couple of hours online 
 just trying to put together a 40 man raid in World of Warcraft (no less spending many more hours 
 to complete the run) is next to impossible for me. Rather than risk letting down others I usually 
 go it alone so I can log off at a moment's notice. While I have managed to take my WoW toon to 
 level 60 almost completely via solo play, such would be impossible on many MMORPGs.
  
  While grouping is essential in post-searing Guild Wars questing, 4 AI "henchmen" (a warrior, mage, 
 priest & ranger) are positioned at the exits of each town. The option is always present to cobble 
 together an AI party that, while inevitably not as strong as a "real" party, works pretty well 
 in most instances. What you sacrifice in real-player strength is (in my particular method of game 
 play, at least) balanced by the flexibility to create a reasonably balanced party at a momen't 
 notice -- and without fear of fighting over looting protocol or disappointing others should the real 
 world come calling in the midst of a quest.
  
  This innovation, coupled with the eye-popping graphics, interesting quests, varied topography and 
 mobs, and the developers' ongoing commitment to maintaining & updating the gaming experience, Guild 
 Wars manages to pull me away from WoW from time to time, which should be understood as a very strong 
 endorsement, indeed!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chimpson6
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 7, 2005 2:50 pm PT
Review:  I got this game because my friend suggested it to me, but when I looked at the box, and the screen-shots 
 on it, I'll tell you, I was less than enthused. But I ended buying it anyway. So, I got home and 
 installed it, and I figured I would have to an hour or so while it updated, nope. So I custimized 
 my character and started... and let me tell you, I was blown away. Heres why:
  
  Gameplay- Simple and easy to use, anyone could figure it out. You may have to try one or two different 
 characters before you find the which one is better for you (Warrior, archer, elementalist.. ect._ 
 But once you find one that you like its non-stop fun from there on.
  Quests, there are so many side quests to do its hard to figure out wich one to do first... best 
 to do a few at a time. Plus the story missions which are really fun, with cool cinamatics and an 
 interesting, twisting story-line.
  The map... oh boy the map, this thing is huge! You could play for months and still not explore the 
 whole thing, this thing is unbelevible, and extreamly detailed, you find two places in the whole 
 game that look alike. Plus, theres a varaitly of climate types, from lush forests, to snowy mountian 
 tops, down to scorching deserts and colorfull islands, with white beaches.
  Enemies- Wow, there are alot of bad-guys in this game, its compleatly amazing. Your always running 
 into more interesting looking foes of sorts. From armored plated dwarfs, to giant scorpians that 
 come at you from underground. let me tell ya, theres probably more enemeis in the game then are 
 words in this review.
  PVP- Player Vs. Player, is another cool part of this game, you can make a character just for fighting 
 other people or use you normal charater and fight in the arenas with Team Vs. Team style of fighting.
 
  
  Graphics- The graphics are wonderfull, and the game really knows how to use them. The snowy Shiverpeaks, 
 with there snow covered pine trees alomst look real, and theres just much of it, hell, you could 
 practically play this game, just to look around at the scenery.
  
  If your a fan of MMORPGS, or have never even heard of them, this game is deffinatly for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fxdm
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 7, 2005 1:51 pm PT
Review:  When I picked this up, I thought this wasn't going to be a great MMORPG, being that it had no monthly 
 fee or any additional stuff like that. But man, this game had me hooked from the start. I've played 
 it casually ever since it came out, and creating new characters with different classes really varies 
 the gameplay when you get bored. While some classes aren't as fun to play as others, like warriors 
 are really boring compared to necromancers, all the classes have distinct armor, physical traits, 
 and skills. 
  
  The guild system is another cool thing about this game. After I created my guild, and recruited 
 some members, we did some PvP (Player versus Player) , and talked or helped each other. This system 
 also builds a system of trust and unity between different types of players.
  
  Strategy... This game has a ton of strategy. At the start of the game, it seems like everything 
 just dies when you click on them, but in PvP and later in the main game, you need to use different 
 skill combanations to take out the strongest opponents. 
  
  This is probably one of the best free MMORPG that I've ever plaid, and I would recommend it to 
 any casual or expert player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: electro303
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2005 12:51 am PT
Review:  One of the best games I have EVER played. Wow, it's like being in a comic book.
  
  Guild Wars is what gaming is all about!
  
  One of the best games I have EVER played. Wow, it's 
 like being in a comic book.
  
  Guild Wars is what gaming is all about.
  
  The play is great, the interaction online is rock solid. The smoothest I have yet to try. I can 
 only say that it is an incredible experience.
  
  I enjoy this game so much that when I have to make time on my calendar for eating and other necessities. 
 It is that good. The design is gorgeous and the interface is super good.
  
  If only all games could be made like this.
  
  Dungeons and Dragons the unofficial game!
  
 
  Kudos to NCsoft.
  
  Get this game you won't regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thriolith
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 6, 2005 3:23 pm PT
Review:  I had my first taste of Guild Wars in-game just over a year ago, during their World Preview Event 
 at the end of October. I have since logged 700+ hours of gameplay and is far longer than I have 
 ever spent on any game.
  
  Rather than labeling Guild Wars an MMORPG, ArenaNet prefers to call Guild Wars a CORPG (Competitive 
 Online Role-Playing Game) . Guild Wars features a streaming update system, which means you no longer 
 have to download and install game patches. In addition, Guild Wars does not have a monthly subscription 
 fee.
  
  Guild Wars sports six professions, the Elementalist, Mesmer, Monk, Necromancer, Ranger, and Warrior. 
 You will choose one as your Primary Profession and will also have the option of choosing another 
 as a Secondary Profession. Each profession has 75+ skills, leaving you to choose 8 skills to carry 
 with you on your skill bar out of 150+ skills from both professions.
  
  Character levels are capped at 20, putting more emphasis on player skill than level. Once a player 
 reaches level 20, they will no longer gain levels, but the experience will instead go towards additional 
 Skill Points, which are required to unlock skills for your character.
  
  Guild Wars has instanced missions, so there is no kill stealing, PKing, and other various frustrations 
 you will find in other MMORPGs. Towns and Outposts will have a varying amount of districts, depending 
 on the number of players in each district. However, once you enter a mission or explorable area, 
 you will find yourself alone with just your party.
  
  Even though Guild Wars doesn't require you to join a guild, it is highly recommended you try to 
 create or join a guild with a tight group of people that you can get along with, and can eventually 
 call your friends.
  
  The missions in Guild Wars are a decent length, and have a reasonable increase in difficulty as 
 you proceed through the storyline. However, some missions can be increasingly frustrating if you 
 or the others in your group do not know what they are doing. Guild Wars also has a large number 
 of Secondary Quests, which you can complete for items, gold, and experience.
  
  The PvP (Player versus Player) in Guild Wars is solid. Teamwork and coordination are essential 
 in order to come out victorious. Strategies need to be worked out based on your professions and 
 which skills you will be taking into battle. The look of PvP is ever changing as Team Builds are 
 constantly being created to counter existing Team Builds.
  
  The graphics and sound are simply stunning. The game features beautifully rendered areas, from 
 beautiful beaches, luscious jungles and arid desert. You will find yourself completely immersed 
 in Guild Wars' by it's amazing soundtrack and ambient sounds.
  
  The Guild Wars developer ArenaNet really cares about it's fans. The team is constantly fixing bugs 
 and balancing skills. ArenaNet is constantly taking feedback and suggestions on ways to improve 
 the game. The people over at ArenaNet stunned us all with their summer update, Sorrow's Furnace, 
 featuring new quests and new explorable areas and recently wowwed us all through their amazing 
 Halloween transformation of major towns and outposts throughout the world of Guild Wars, Tyria.
 
  
  Whether you're a fan of PvE or PvP, Guild Wars is right for you, and is definately worth every 
 penny. If you're still not convinced, I suggest you do a bit of research into the game before you 
 believe the people who believe this game is overrated.
  
  If you'd like to play with me in-game you can add me to your friends list as "Evangeline Miras". 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LonnieMitchell
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 14, 2005 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Finally somebody who gets that people will possibly be more apt to buy an MMO if they don't have 
 to put out that initial investment and then continue to pay everysingle month no matter if you 
 play for 2 hours or 30 days that month. They have done multiple things right in this game. First 
 of all, as mentioned above, NO MONTHLY FEES. This was a big selling point for me. Also, the creators 
 have taken into account that you can't always meet up with friends to play whenever you want to 
 do so. You can still form groups of friends to tackle hard quests, but you can also choice from 
 "mercenaries" who are free to hire. You just walk up to them and ask them to join. This allows 
 you to play the game at any time with out having to worry who else is online to help you. Also, 
 you have a choice of multiple character types. While this is not a new idea, you are actually able 
 to store items and money for use by any of your created characters. This helps to keep you from 
 having to find another player in order to be able to swap items between characters. Overall I really 
 enjoyed this game, however, I admit that toward the very end I kind of lost interest. I still haven't 
 fully completed the story, but I may someday. 
  
  Oh, and did I mention that I've lost interest toward the end? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puhhehehee
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 6, 2005 1:56 am PT
Review:  guild wars is made by a former developer from blizzard. they were behind starcraft, warcraft, and 
 diablo. this is why guild wars actually do feel like diablo series. it's a great online game, but 
 even great ones do have pros and cons.
  
  graphics:
  this is what i say everytime i write pc game reviews. obviously, it depends on what you have. although, 
 this game don't require high computer specs, but weird thing is you will need some powerful pc 
 to run everything in highest settings. my opinion will based on my pc. it's beautiful and gorgeous. 
 background is rich, colorful, and alive. character models look great. with all these great graphics 
 it lacks on animation. i am not saying it has bad animation, it's average.
  
  sound:
  average. not a revolutionary score. i started playing this game ever since when it was first released, 
 and with summer updates, arenanet made some remix into the BGM, but still little repetitive and 
 gets old pretty fast. i will have to add that BGMs do match with your current mood of your location.
 
  
  sound effect is just nice. from hack n slash to magic use, it's nice. they did some great job on 
 this department. voice acting is somewhat average, you are not going to see too much of in game 
 cut scenes, but when you do it's quite okay.
  
  gameplay:
  i will start out with the community of this game since this is online play only. when i first started 
 many people didn't know what to do, they were focused more on inviting as many people as possible 
 and finish quests. now it's little different. yes, there are still many people who are trying to 
 finish quests, but mainly, now it's for selling their items. people who started this game when 
 it was released including me, we have maxed level characters with finished every missions. either 
 we focus more on selling items due to not enough storage space, PvP (i will get to PvP later) , 
 and start out with a new character.
  
  missions are very fun, interesting, and challenging. it's not just get how many of this and that 
 and bring them to type of quests. this game actually made me think i am part of the nation. i am 
 doing something to improve and defense our nation type of quests. missions do get harder and challenge 
 later in the game. sometimes you can't complete the mission with first try. you might want to have 
 little patience and attempt it again.
  
  finding parties is what i love about this game. we all know how frustrate it is to find players 
 to join or you try to join. it's still frustrate in this game, but not as bad as compare to other 
 online and mmorpgs out there. when you are in the town, you will see so many players. all you need 
 to do is, i am looking for a party for this and that quest. if you wait little bit, you will get 
 responses because in that area, everyone's goal is pretty much the same. if you don't feel like 
 finding live players? then no worries. there are computer control players called henchmen. you 
 just go up to them and invite whoever you want them to be in your party. early version of this 
 game, henchmen was pretty stupid. there weren't useless, but they weren't that helpful neither. 
 now, they are little better now. they pretty much know what to do, and know their roles.
  
  you also have storages just like diablo. it's a great and welcome feature, but not enough space. 
 it's basically one storage per account not per character. with one account, you can make up to 
 4 characters and they share just one storage. you are going to be frustrated because if you play 
 long enough, you will find some very good items. you want to store those items, but there are also 
 important ones in that storage. game either forces you to sell those items to other people or to 
 npc, or destroy it.
  
  action is awesome. this game feels like you are playing an action game. your level of skills and 
 level of your character does matter, but mainly it's about your personal skills. you will need 
 to know what to do and when. you will have to help your party members to survive, you survive, 
 and kill the monsters. it's very good and intense.
  
  this game don't have KS (kill steal) i really hate that, and i am sure many of you are too. when 
 you go out from the town, everything is yours. every montsers to every drops. this features have 
 pros and cons. pro is just about everything i explained above. con is when you are in trouble, 
 don't expect help from high level characters who happen to be roaming around your area. you will 
 need to form a party inside the town, then your entire party will have a copy of your world. it's 
 a great features and i love it. if you play carefully and with good skills, i am sure you will 
 survive by yourself.
  
  PvP is what this game is about. you form a guild. either you create one or join. each guilds have 
 their own emblems to represent and with different types and colors of capes. first version of this 
 game didn't give you an option to equip and unequip a guild cape, but now you can. guild can buy 
 their own place and gather up for socilize purposes or to plan strategies to beat other guilds. 
 like i have mentioned above, your personal skills play huge role in this game, and when you are 
 in a guild pvp or one on one pvp, this is where it matters the most.
  
  lastly, you can't level up your character higher than level 20. i really hated this. you can get 
 get more skill points even after you become 20. then you might asking yourself, to become 20 is 
 easy, and people probably are same. it's quite easy to hit level 20. just do missions and it will 
 give you huge chunk of experience points. you can level faster by completing missions than hunt 
 monsters. you can craft to customize gears to make it better. you can even customize your own colors 
 by buy or find dyes.
  
  conclusion:
  guild wars is worth $49.99 price tag. there is no monthly fee. addictive gameplay with great graphics. 
 it's easy to get into, controls are easy to learn and straight forward. with user friendly interfaces, 
 you will catch this game quick. i really hope that expansion pack will fix some of those. expansion 
 pack is on its way to next year. i am not too sure what the contents might be or what areas of 
 improvements will include, but as for now, i can only raise my hope. if you are looking for something 
 worth your time, this is a game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zechthecamel
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 5, 2005 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Guild wars is an mmorpg that has no monthly  
 MONTHLY FEES! THINK, A SOLID GAME THAT IS AN MMO WITH NO MONTHLY FEES! If you are going to buy 
 an mmorpg, why bother paying a million dollars every week. If you want a massive world of adventures 
 and different races, you might wanna get a little richer and pass this one bye. But if your short 
 on $30.00s a week, get guild wars. Its got good graphics as well as gameplay. It takes out the 
 click, watch and wait, explore, click, and all over again. Its not a massively multiplayer like 
 WOW, but it's a solid game that's pretty addictive. Supprised me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nikolaipetrovic
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 5, 2005 2:07 pm PT
Review:  My background: WoW, EQ2, NWN, many old school RPGs.
  
  So here is the absolute bottom line for this game:
  1) no grind to level
  2) long term goal 
 (there IS an actual story!!!)
  3) not as time consuming as other MMOs
  4) henchmen ARE helpful just have to know what team build will do best in the particular mission 
 you are doing (think strategy)
  5) you CAN solo! (see 4)
  
  So, this is the game for a more mature crowd. People who want their online fantasy rpg but cannot 
 afford the time it takes to play one will appreciate NCSOFTs work.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: destiny_blade
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 5, 2005 12:14 pm PT
Review:  A beautifly designed game absolutely breathtaking graphics a very easy to use battle system nice 
 and easy to trae with fellow guildys when guilds go head to head its shockingly good to play you 
 cant seem to get of your computer but sometimes its very find a party in multiplayer missions an 
 easy way around that is to be a monk or get a second profession as a monk because everyone loves 
 molnks beacuse of there healing abilitys anyway this is a great game to buy if you want to test 
 mmos. 
  transending souls guild are looking for new members my name in the game is shugo of azure anyone 
 wanna join just talk to me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moobizzle
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 5, 2005 10:49 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is an extremely rewarding MMO on many levels, but it may not appeal to everyone. I was 
 attracted to Guild Wars because of its promises of no annual subsription, and expansions every 
 few months to make up for this loss of income. After first expieriencing this game, I realized 
 it was different than any other MMO I had ever played. The skill bar only allowed 8 different skills 
 at a time, these 8 skills may have been easy to configure in the tutorial portion of the game called 
 Pre-Sear, but after some hefty playing time you find that also a lot of player skill is needed 
 in order to find the best way to balance the hundreds of skills, spells, and signets you learn 
 throughout the game into that tiny skill bar. The PvP portion of the game is made especially exciting 
 with this factor. Overall, Guild Wars is a great game whether you like to play alone, or with groups 
 of friends. The short level cap ( your character can only advance to level 20) may have you avoiding 
 Guild Wars, but it still brings hundreds of hours of content to the table, and it is not hard a 
 hard game to get addicted to. I would highly recommend Guild Wars to anyone who enjoys RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corkster77
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 5, 2005 8:04 am PT
Review:  it might not be as good as wow, but it FREE, thats great. the game is interesting and the value 
 is awsome. it took me two months to finish it and i played it every day. the best thing is even 
 though i beet the game there is still many things i can do. like quests that only come after u 
 save the world. unlike in wow u can change one of your two proffesion. i had a ranger warrior, 
 and i switch to a ranger necro. even better u still get all the warriors moves you had if u deside 
 to switch back. the game has fun gameplay, hundreds of skills and awsome pvp/gvg. this is a must 
 have for all mmorpg lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebohm
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 3, 2005 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Just the best MMORPG ever made and it is free to play. It is very addictive and you will never 
 get bored of it because there are so many levels and quests to complete. Easy to learn but hard 
 enough to play to keep you guessing. Noyhing is too easy and you will find yourself thinking how 
 to finish a quest you have failed many times. Buy it and you will not regret it. You will tell 
 your friends about it and they will love you for it. What else can I say beside it is a perfect 
 10 in my mind and I bet you will feel pretty much the same way once you get it. Don't wait go and 
 get it now so you can find out what everyone is talking about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoxivVixon
Rating: 6.2
Date: Nov 2, 2005 9:56 pm PT
Review:  I played Guild Wars for 1250 hours, i raised and ended the game 6x with 5 diferent professions 
 and chars. And in the end, when i unlocked all the Professions and items, like Runes, Weapons and 
 all the stuff needed for PvP i realised that the game is poor for what is intended to be one of 
 the best RPG for PvP ever made.
  
  When you need to train with your guild you can't do an internal battle, so you always need to play 
 against others, if you find other guild to play or train an unrated battle.
  
  Guild Wars is supposed to be well ballanced, some professions in the ballance are just a joke, 
 like, if you play as a necromancer you are always in desadvantage against other professions. For 
 many weeks Rangers were always superior, they have skills to do almost everything and you spend 
 less mana then other professions, so for those who say that the game is well balanced, IS JUST 
 A JOKE.
  
  Now the PvE thing, it's not bad, but Guild Wars is not a regular RPG, u can play solo with Henchmans 
 (game bots) through 1/4 of the game, from Lion's Arch (2nd Major City) till the end of the game 
 you don't do another bonus, since you have Missions and Mission Bonus to do to earn 1000xp, forget 
 the rest of the bonus in the game, cause henchmans are too stupid to play. So you always need a 
 team to do missions, well, here you have another problem, because u can stay in a outpost for 2 
 weeks to get a decent team so you can do a mission and a bonus. 
  
  Now the level capture and the interest of playing Guild Wars. After you end the first char in the 
 game u don't have another thing to do, ok you can raise more chars, like i did, to justify the 
 money i paid, but u end a char with all done in one week, two weeks if you play giving some time, 
 ohh and if u have a good guild, because without a good guild forget what i said, because u will 
 problably play guild wars for the rest of your life.
  
  Me and my guild we ended the game 6x, after that all the people was tired of this game, and even 
 with the expansion "SUMMER UPDATE" is just boring.
  
  Well, what can i say, i think it's a cool game, but if you want to justify what u pay you need 
 to play like i did, and i don't recommend it to anybody, because it's so boring u do the same thing 
 6x just to justify money. The game don't have any kind of durability, and the objective is too 
 short, you end the game, and you don't have more to do.
  
  END OF STORY
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToastManX4
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 2, 2005 7:40 pm PT
Review:  I personally LOVE this game and have been playing for 2 months now, the depth in this game is amazing 
 and all that can be done is just endless. There is nothing you can't do and it is just flat out 
 GREAT. This game is updated fairly frequently keeping it fresh, such as the Halloween skin and 
 free pumpkin crowns. This addictive MMORPG should be a game everyone owns, and can be loved by 
 all. I am a FPS guy myself but I instantly fell in love with this game
  
  If you are looking for action, and highly intense team battles, this is the game for you. If you 
 are looking for a game in which massive strategy, or just having fun, can be accepted, this is 
 the game for you. If you want a game you'll love, and can play for a long time, THIS IS THE GAME 
 FOR YOU 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liquidgen3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2005 4:55 pm PT
Review:  Im not one to make long reviews so ill try to make it short
  
  Guild wars is exceptional in the fact that it is has attempted to create free-per-month mmorpg 
 but most importantly make it great, and it works!!
  
  Gameplay - The game can take some time to get used to as the tutorial is constantly being updated 
 to help out more but so far is a tad bare. But once u start getting the hang of the game you'll 
 be sucked in such an emmersive game that you'll think 1/2 an hours gone buy and its really 3. The 
 grouping of parties is smart and making the cities hubs was smart. The combat is fast paced and 
 in the beggining easy to get used to but gets increasingly difficult near the end and feels perfect. 
 The limitations of the spells is great for adding a strategical aspect and really doesn't feel 
 to restricted and spells feel varied and not the same thing with a different name.
  
  Graphics - Again, for being free its amazing what they have done giving various ways of customization 
 but not as far as WoW. The charactermodels are extremely detailed and the enviroments are breathe 
 taking.
  
  Sound - The score is pretty good and sound effects are pretty dead on. Sometimes tho the music 
 can be alitte dead and boring.
  
  Value, this game can be played for long periods of time and still be extrmely appealing. The story 
 is worth noting too, its interesting and fun to watch ur characters in the cutscenes narrate the 
 story.
  
  Buy this game if u never played a mmorpg and cant afford monthly fees, you owe it to urself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kahzud
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 2, 2005 1:27 pm PT
Review:  The game is slow at first but once you pick it up its hard to let go, much like world of warcraft. 
 Graphics blow other games away. The environments and ideas are very inventive. Customization of 
 characters is fun. Skill tree is huge. pvp and pve both fun. incredibly fun. This game is really 
 its all cracked up to be. its revolutionary its pracically its own game. it was called a mmorpg 
 but not a coorpg approach ffits it nicely. i would recommend this to anyone who likes these style 
 of games plus its free. this game will have u at the edge of your seat until you beat it then its 
 kind of boring afterwards except for the pvp. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barney99
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 2, 2005 2:39 am PT
Review:  this game is superb. it is set in a huge world with hundreds of quests and lots of missions. You 
 choose your own character from either monk, warrior ,mesmer, elementalist, nercomancer or ranger. 
 These can be customised by choosing the sex, build, armour, weapons and even hair styles. You can 
 play by yourself using AI henchmen as your team or by join other online gamers. you can also trade 
 with other players for items to upgrade your armor and weapons. The grahics are great and theres 
 no subscription fee. The game play is great you can lose yourself for hours in this game, the story 
 is also good. Quite simply this game is a must . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AgentClank43
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 1, 2005 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Ok this may be my favorite game for the PC because of the extensive gamplay and satisfying co-op 
 perspective, the fact that you can get on with your buddies and have stronger people really help 
 you out in the game and the just utterly amazing graphics....999999999/10 though there is one thing 
 that lacked my interest. The fact that it gets kinda boring really quick I mean its still fun but 
 not one of those games where you can spend 10 hours staight enjoying it. It is still a very fun 
 and entertaining cooperative game. First choice for PC games... (if only it came for PS2) ... I want 
 a lawer... lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ag1002
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 8, 2005 10:41 pm PT
Review:  I have played 450 hours over the past 4 months and still counting. That is the most I have ever 
 played a game for! I have been playing the same character for those 450+ hours too...
  
  First, just one quick thing I need to tell you! There is NO monthly fee, wich means once you buy 
 Guild Wars, you will never have to pay for it again.
  
  Ok, I am going to just explain how the game works. 
  When you first log in, you will be asked 
 what type of character you would like to create.
  
  These are the different classes. 
  
  So you have a warrior, a ranger, a monk, a necromancer, a mesmer, and an elementalist. 
  
 
  The WARRIOR is your basic hack and slash character. Warriors can take more damage then any other 
 class. 
  
  The RANGER is a long range damage dealer. Rangers can also have pets, wich they can train for combat, 
 and a ranger can set traps.
  
  The MONK is the healer of the group. Monks are required in almost all groups in the later portion 
 of the game, and in PvP (player vs player) , but monks can still use smiting spells wich does damage.
 
  
  The NECROMANCER works off corpses. If they kill an enemy, they can use that corpse to their advantage 
 with many possibilities such as, creating an army of minions, or take health from it, or do damage 
 to all who stand around it, ect.
  
  The MESMER is a damage dealer who works on draining health, draining energy, having the enemy loose 
 health each time they attack or cast a spell, and much more. 
  
  The ELEMENTALIST is also a damage dealer. Using the elements air, water, fire, and earth, the elementalist 
 can do mighty damage against large groups of foes, but takes damage harshly.
  
  Now once you have chosen your character, you start off in the town of Ascalon. This is basically 
 a huge training course. Here you can get your second proffesion. This basically allows you to use 
 skills from another class. So if you were a Monk, and you chose Mesmer to be your second proffesion, 
 you can now use mesmer skills. 
  
  Now, when you leave town, you will get your own private copy of the map. This means the only players 
 there will be you and your party. You can party up with friends or other players, and head out 
 into the world. There are also AI controlled henchmen. They do a very good job but later on in 
 the game you pretty much need to fight with real people.
  
  The level cap in this game is 20. Now don't let that sound discourging. Levels determine where 
 you are in the story really. Playing through the game will get your level higher, so you don't 
 need to spend hours "grinding" to get your level up. Being level 20 doesn't mean you are all powerful 
 and can kill a foe in one hit. You can still level up after reaching 20, but you gain a skill point, 
 not a level. You can use a skill point to get a new skill. 
  Now this cap creates a balance, wich means in the PvP portion of the game, even a level 10 who 
 knows what they are doing can kill a 20. In the PvE portion of the game the cap means players still 
 have to work together. You can't just run off by yourself, you need your teammates. So if you are 
 thinking of getting this game, please remember, the levels don't show how long you have been playing, 
 but more to where you are in the game. 
  
  The PvP portion of the game is top notch. You have to stratigize with your teammates on what skills 
 would go good with another, or work out a strategy. Guild Wars also allows you to pinpoint on the 
 minimap where you want someone to go, by clicking it-creating a "ping" and a red circle rippling 
 out, or you can click and drag on the minimap to draw out a direction. So this means in PvP, you 
 can quickly tell your whole party where they need to go. You can also do a quick call, by holding 
 (by default) left ctrl and double clicking on the target. If you double clicked an enemy, this 
 will put a "ping" on the minimap, and on the party display it will show a target sign, so all players 
 know who to attack or just who you are attacking. You press left ctrl and click on anything really, 
 so you can call out what skill you are using, you can call out how much energy you have, or how 
 much health, ect. 
  The main reason for the level 20 cap, is so that winning or loosing is determined on your skill, 
 not your level. An unorganized group against an organized group will surely be killed, and won't 
 even kill one foe.
  
  Guild Wars also has a great streaming system. So this means, no more looking around for a new patch 
 and then downloading and installing it. Updates are streamed to you as soon as you log in. This 
 only takes a few seconds, and isn't noticable. So if there is a little bug somewhere, the fix can 
 be steamed to all players. All updates for Guild Wars are free, so they gave us the "Sorrows Furnace" 
 update, wich was new areas to explore, new items to pick up, new monsters to fight, new quests 
 to do. So for halloween, they changed main towns to a halloween look, and gave us haloween items. 
 Also, in a certain town, every 3 hours the "Mad King" would arrive and play games with everyone 
 in town, and at the end you would recieve a pumkin crown, wich was basically a really cool jako-lantern 
 that you wore on your head. So you just log in, and everything you need is streamed to you.
  Now for the loading times! Well, they just wiz right by and take only a couple seconds.
  
  
 Ok, for the visual portion of Guild Wars. The graphics in Guild Wars are outstanding- beatiful 
 reflections in the water, the sun shining down on a warriors armor, and the character models are 
 too real. The hud (what you see on the screen, like health bars, the minimap, ect) is tottally custimizable, 
 you can go into the options and click "custimize", here you can resize or move anything around. 
 So I could make my health bar smaller, or the minimap could be moved to the bottem of the screen, 
 and so on.
  Visual effects look fantastic as well. Each skill has a signature look to it when being used. When 
 an elementalist rains fire from the sky, or meteors, you can see it all coming down and making 
 contact with the ground with devestating power. You will see relaxing magical blue sprays as the 
 monk heals you. Dark and evil green mysts will flutter about as the necromancer casts a deadly 
 spell. A mesmerizing purple effect will shine as the mesmer casts a dangerous spell. Blasts of 
 sparks will be the result of a warriors strike. You will hear the sound of the arrow as it flies 
 from the rangers bow and cuts into a foe. With all this, a battle becomes a loud and colourful 
 event.
  
  This game also sounds amazing, there is lots of action going on, and you can hear all the swords 
 clanging, and spells being casted. It all sounds different according to where you are. So in the 
 jungle you hear plenty of animal sounds, and water running, in the mountains your going to hear 
 wind blowing and so on.
  
  Now if you would like to play Guild Wars with me, my name is "Cursed Avenger" so you can add me 
 to your friends list and I can help you out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkraush
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 1, 2005 12:41 pm PT
Review:  The only reason to play this game is because you are firmly against monthly fees, and still want 
 a fantasy type online game to play. But even then... I'd go with Diablo. All the armor and weapons 
 look the same, and look like crap, unless you spend all your money on dyes. I love the instant 
 movement between towns, and I love the direction they give you for quests, but it's not really 
 enough. All the characters look the same, and no one else in game ever seems interested in partying 
 with you anyways. If you have enough friends that play for a full group, this game could be a lot 
 of fun. I guess the bottom line is, if you refuse to pay a monthly fee for an Online RPG (World 
 of Warcraft is a million times better than this game, People saying otherwise are lying to you) 
 and you're sick of diablo, then you should check this game out.
  
  PS - The PVP is actually a lot of fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddt
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 1, 2005 7:03 am PT
Review:  I've played my share of MMORPGs - I've beta'ed lots of them, and cancelled quite a few accounts... 
 I was coming off of playing MxO, sick to death of what they'd done to that game when i found GW 
 - and immediately jumped in with both feet! This game is great for both casual AND power gamers, 
 and does a pretty decent job of putting everyone on a level playfield. 
  
  A lot of games have tried to do what this one does. Most fail - but this one succeeds quiet nicely! 
 Now if they'd just do a sci-fi base game like this.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eriktirto
Rating: 5.7
Date: Oct 31, 2005 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Well, as i say earlier, i had played guild war for about a year and i was damn done for it. Boringgggggggggggg... 
 really not a type of MMORPG that i would recommend to all of you. For you who love to play the 
 REAL MMORPG game such as, WoW, CoH..... i could assure that you will be very dissapointed to this 
 game... Almost a year, this game had done nothing to me, with the lack of communicating services, 
 this game could be catogarized as a fail MMORPG game for the year 2005. Neverhtheless, the graphic 
 for this game was flawless... If truth be told, i confess that Guild war had it's graphic as the 
 best among all MMORPG i ever played in my whole life. Of course, for now, Granado Espada had the 
 exact same level of graphic towards this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elliooo
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 8, 2006 2:58 am PT
Review:  Any game that can keep you interested, and still asking for more after three months is definately 
 a great game.
  
  Some of my favourite games, kept me going for one month, or a few weeks, but this surpasses all 
 of them. The gameplay is great in this, everything is smooth and lag is a very rare happening in 
 the Guild Wars world.
  
  The environments look amazing, as do the people. This game is an amazing graphical achievment, 
 as it looks great, but doesn't require a supercomputer to run. Although there are a few glitches 
 here and there, this hardly takes away from the graphics.
  
  The cooperative storyline is fairly lengthy, and great fun to play. Once this is complete the whole 
 PvP combat world is amazing. Guild vs guild combat, and other tournaments are great. The game requires 
 strategy and teamwork to complete. 
  
  Some people say that the level 20 cap is a bad thing, I thought this too until I reached it. As 
 it stands now, I could fight the best player in the world and have a chance. Instead of spending 
 200 hours getting to lvl 60 so you can have a chance, you can get dumped right into the action 
 and have fun from the very start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chadillac1973
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 29, 2005 7:02 pm PT
Review:  I'm so glad that there is finally an online game that people can play without paying a monthly 
 fee. I hate the usery that most companies use to exploit gamers. This is one of the funnest games 
 I have ever played. 
  I've been playing games since the "Pong" and my first computer was a C128. This is probably the 
 best rpg since the first "Bard's Tale". I really enjoy it and look forward to meeting all kinds 
 of people in the game. 
  
  You can learn how to play the game in just a short time. However, there are many aspects of the 
 game that take a very long time to learn. I feel that this will be a game that will keep me interested 
 for many days to come. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KoFRikkiMaru
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 29, 2005 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Overall i think Guild Wars is better than WoW. I mean sure WoW is great and all if u can pay the 
 fee every month. I mean if u can and its not bothering u to pay WoW is the way to go! but for me, 
 paying monthly is a rip off in my opinion and i love guild wars for not having to pay monthly. 
 But i think guild wars is underrated and is actually better than how sum people say it is. although 
 i find it odd that i meet the requirements i still kinda lag at sum points, even on the lowest 
 settings, i think that its a great game, and in a way very addicting 
::::::

::::::
UserName: millerhelp11111
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 19, 2005 1:50 pm PT
Review:  ok this game is a great game with few flaws the coolest part of the game is the guilds when u join 
 a guild u get a guild hall and cape which is a relly great part of the game you can also start 
 your own guild and create your own cape and get your guld a guild hall the combat is great with 
 all the different weapons for each profession you take to professions like my character is a eleminialist/ranger 
 it is a great game to play the load screens are fast and there are some quest where u form a party 
 of 8 and perform the quest with the other players it is a great game the main city ascalon city 
 changes though time too that is a great part as u progress it changes from pleasant nice city to 
 desert city this game is great and after u buy it for 50$ price tag you never need to pay no more 
 for it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lowrider511
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 28, 2005 7:08 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the greatest mmorpg i've ever played. NCSoft has done an excelent job in making 
 this game. The thing i like the most though is the addictive gameplay. Once you play GW, you get 
 hooked on it. I dont really like to pay monthly for mmorpgs, and so NCSoft has done us all a big 
 favor. For example for Star Wars: Galaxies, you pay 12 bucks a month, and World Of Warcraft, 15 
 bucks, thats a rippoff in my opinion. But Guild Wars is worth buying and canceling your subscription 
 to SW: G, or WoW, because you will get so addicted to it that you wont even play SW: G and WoW anymore. 
 So i gave Guild Wars a 9.9 because of its greatness 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agentdan868
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2007 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a RPG that tests your intelligence to put 8 skills together to fight either against 
 other players or the single-player based quests. It's a RPG, which has Free Online Gameplay, so 
 you need not worry about monthly fees and get the most for you buck. Whenever you have time to 
 you play. The games visuals for each setting, are gorgeous as well as stunning. Were you could 
 spend most of your time looking at the scenery. The games Player vs. Player aspect is also great, 
 were you could test your skills as well as your build (skill set) against other players to see 
 how well you stand. This game offers visuals, as well as enjoyment no matter how long you, for 
 no cost to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fenix_zealot
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 28, 2005 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a great game for the new MMORPG player. Starts off with a smaller world to not intimidate 
 a new player, and gradually with experience you move into the larger world. An interesting component 
 is the ability to choose a primary and secondary profession, making the profession choices limitless. 
 The storyline takes the player across the entire map, and takes quite the amount of time to finish 
 the plot. The PvP concept of the game also ties in, the more you play PvP, the more "faction points" 
 you receive which in turn allow you to receive interesting items. Overall, a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud_Archangel
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 28, 2005 7:18 am PT
Review:  As with the rest of you I was looking for something to satisfy my RPG craving now that Final Fantasy 
 has gone wierd. FF7 was the absolute best, by the way. So I went to a local gamestop and asked 
 "what can I do to statisfy this craving?" The guy behind the counter handed me this "Guild wars" 
 NO FEE's and lots of room for expantion. So seeing as thoughI did not have to pay fee's to play 
 it. (I have to admit that was VERY appealing) . Form the moment I started playing it I was hooked. 
 Now I have over 400 hrs logged in it since I got it sept 1st. It is a awesome game. Great wepons, 
 and lots of room for trades and selling. I love the towns and how they are created. THE UNDERWORLD 
 AND FISSUE OF WOE are awesome EXTRA places to go for loot. It is my first online RPG, but it is 
 very high on my recomendation list. There is some lack with the story and plot line, but overall 
 it is a great game to play to fill that Final Fantasy Void!!!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: henrikcomn
Rating: 7.2
Date: Oct 28, 2005 5:30 am PT
Review:  GW is a good game, but the limited free wolrd is a shame. You cant move every where you will like 
 i WoW, and you can only use 8 spells when you are out in the world of guild wars.
  The game has a pretty nice gameplay and graphic, and you shall not pay a monthly fee.
  
  The 
 good: Good gameplay; Nice graphic; Good teamplay;
  
  The bad: A little world; To few options; Weapons and stuff dosent play a role like in WoW; 
  
 
  
  So.. buy it if you will.. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BaZzeR
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 27, 2005 3:31 pm PT
Review:  The Graphics:10/10
  Why? when i first played in the game i thought to myself "omg how my crapy comp will manage to 
 deal with the graphics??! , well, the game just awosome! the graphic engine can make his wonders 
 even on an avarage computer! and for the graphics themselvs.. just amazing!
  
  sound: 9/10:
  why? the sound pretty cool and well fixed to the scene: battle music, local town 
 music and more! but sometimes the music just boring so i gave 9/10.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10:
  Why? the game is just awsome, also a new kind of rpg game (mmorpg with vpv) and the game is never 
 boring! the space to explore is huge! the monsters very cool, and alot (2nd time: alot) of quests 
 and mission to do! shortly.. you will never get bored!
  
  Value: 10/10: 
  Why? is it worth to buy the game for this amount of cash? if you ask me.. YES IT IS! the game just 
 huge, you have many things to do! and there is no monthly fee.. the game worth every cent..
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 10/10:
  so what we have here? huge space to explore.. amazing graphics.. mind 
 blasting sound and many more!
  my final opinion: BUY IT! FAST! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: george_h18
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 26, 2005 4:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is great for what it is. For one it has great graphics, literally hundreds of combinations 
 of the types of of characters you can have. You can spend 100s of hours trying out all the different 
 builds for your characters. Plus the PvP element of the game is well seemlessly implemented into 
 the game. Also the world of Tyria is a big one and it is a true joy exploring this one. Also the 
 Guild system in thsi game is absolutly wonderful and if you join the right one you will make some 
 very good friends. Yet it is not without its faults for one there is a lv20 cap for all characters. 
 this is agood and bad thing depending on how u look at it. If your are a casual game player this 
 is excellent because you do not have to put too many hours into maxing out your character. Making 
 the PvP element very balanced. The thing is if you are a hardcore gamer you will reach the lv cap 
 very soon and you will be left wanting more. Even if youa re able to get past the lv cap there 
 is not that many rewards for spending lots of time on the game. Sure there is 15k and fissure armour 
 but other than pure asthetic differences it will not provide an advatage over the cheaper droks 
 armour. In the end this game is for anyone who wants to try out an MMORPG for the first time or 
 for those who do not have alot of time to spend on it, but if u are one who a hardcore gamer u 
 will reach the end fast and wil be left wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jam03
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2005 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is the best online game ever. With no fees and awersome graphics this is the game to 
 get. A must buy! The storyline is great with many twists and turns that make this an awersome game. 
 This is one of those games that you can play for a very, very long time. I've even bought a second 
 copy (collectors edition) of it so I could get another account for more characters!
  Each profession is so unique that you can play the game over and over again and not get bored. 
 I cannot wait for the second chapter. GO GUILD WARS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mephistopheles9
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2005 6:14 am PT
Review:  i have the geforce ti 4400 64 mb card, 6gigs of free memory, and yet im still plagued by long loading 
 time and lag attacks. this takes a lot away from my experience, and im sure i could enjoy this 
 game a lot more. i really feel left out wen in missions, every1 has already rushed off without 
 me, sentencing me 2 instant doom. i wish i could have their level of play! and im playing on lowest 
 detail. this game does grow on you, mostly because of the people. there are the jerks (vents for 
 anger) , the noobs (so many of them think their experienced or wise, but they just suck) and the 
 friends the nice and funnny people you will meet in this game. i still can not explain how endlessly 
 frustrating it is to play pvp and lose, even though you know u could have won if there hadnt been 
 an unfortunate lag attack, or if your loading time hadnt prevented you from reaching ur friends. 
 i would say buy it, but only if u have a super graphics card. it mite just be my comp or something, 
 but i was heavily dissapointed in the hardware guide that gamespot wrote. it says the loading times 
 are quick. my loading times can take up to 2 minutes. it say you can play comfortably with the 
 recomended graphics card on "tuned down" detail. im playing on the lowest detail and my lag is 
 killing me. if u have a cure for my lag wisp me my username is szaurith the dark 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zlobber
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 26, 2005 1:19 am PT
Review:  WARRNING!!!! THIS GAME IS HIGHLY ADDICTIVE. I've been playing every free minute for the last 5 
 months. The game have THE MOST advanced PvP system in the world. You can't find anything like this 
 in any other game. Why?
  
  1) This is not a signle player versus player game. You always work with a team.
  2) This is a 
 team based PvP where team coordination and ability is the winning key.
  3) Personal and Team builds are important. You have 6 professions and 450 skill to chose from. 
 You have only 8 players in a team and everyone can take only 8 skills with them. Choseing the right 
 professions and skills is important.
  4) The better you get, you want to be even better. Even if you find the winning combination, you 
 can't win against all teams/guilds. You are always looking for personal and team improvement.
 
  5) High addrenalin rush in hard and long battles keeps you focused. The thrill of this style of 
 playing is unmached even in high competative FPS.
  
  In total I've played more than 1000 hours in the last 5 months and there is no stopping me!!!
 
  
  Sorry for my bad english 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hye_03
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2005 8:45 pm PT
Review:  If you like Role-Playing games, kind of Diablo II style, youre going to love Guild Wars. Guild 
 Wars is an online multiplayer game only, which is free, and offers a very well designed world to 
 play in. The world you play in Guild Wars is extremely big and filled with quests. The environment 
 is beautiful, especially if youre running on a fast PC with a good graphic card. Though this game 
 does not require an extremely fast PC, it is recommended to have at least 1.2GHz or faster because 
 you will be playing with over 500 players at once. Guild Wars lets you play with a party of two, 
 but as you increase in level, more players can join you on your quests. Joining or creating a Guild 
 is the main factor of Guild Wars, and the wars between guilds is very fun. The game offers 6 character 
 classes, which is called professions. You start off by choosing your primary profession and as 
 you advance in the game, you are given the choice of choosing a secondary profession. That means 
 there is a total of 30 different character types that you could chose from. The professions are: 
 Warrior, a strong fighter in melee combat; Ranger, very able with long ranged weapons and can charm 
 animals which can accompany him/her through the game; a Monk, which uses white magic: heals, protects 
 allies, and can cast spells on enemies dealing holy damage; Elementalist, a character which can 
 summon fire, water, earth, and air; a Mesmer, a master of illusion and control; and a Necromancer, 
 which can turn an undead creature to assist him/her in battle and cast death spells on enemies. 
 You can chose to make your character male or female; small, medium, or tall; and you can customize 
 what he/she will look like. Overall I do not have any negative remarks and Guild Wars is a must 
 have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwlettsome
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 25, 2005 11:33 am PT
Review:  I've been playing this game for several weeks and I've seen a lot of positive and negatives comments 
 about the game, so here is my attempt to give some additional guidance for anyone considering the 
 game.
  
  First some negatives. Intermittent server lag is an issue, depending on your connection, etc. you 
 may experience better results. Finding/joining guilds is easy, finding a good guild that suits 
 the player is hard. Players who are looking for instant gratification or constant hacking away 
 on creatures or other players may not find what they are looking for in this game. It can take 
 awhile to really get into the game and start feeling like you fully understand what's going on. 
 Player community has a small amount of what I'll call immaturity and is not the most overwhelmingly 
 friendly. Final negative... there's a "runescape" refugee element to some of the players and by 
 that I mean that some of the players are more interested in begging for money then they are playing.
 
  
  Now the positives. Excellent graphics, fun, immersive game play. It's easy to lose track of how 
 much time you are spending in the game. It's pretty easy to hook up with other players on cooperative 
 missions. If you don't see anyone asking to put a group together just go start asking people if 
 they want to form a group. Other positives include the smart choices that the developers made in 
 the "questing" part of the game. No need to go "rest" after every battle or series of battles. 
 The interface is easy to use, keyboard commands are efficient and the in game chat, while not great, 
 is sufficient. Also, if you don't feel like adventuring with anyone but yourself you can use NPC's 
 to fill out your party or if you have a group of friends online at the same time you can hook up 
 with them and all head out with no interference from other players either killing off all the creatures 
 in the area or killing off other players and stealing their stuff.
  
  Final thoughts. This game is not for everyone, but if you are a fan of RPG's I would be surprised 
 if you did not end up liking this game alot. If you are new to the genre then before you buy think 
 about what you like or don't like about your gaming experience and go into this with your eyes 
 open. And if you like RPG's and are new to online game play, while not perfect, Guild Wars should 
 be welcome introduction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fattybombom
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 25, 2005 6:33 am PT
Review:  the game feels good, looks good and sound even better..
  
  if you are looking for an action oriented RPG look no further..
  you can play solo if you don't 
 like the whole mulitplayer deal..
  you get henchmen that do their job more or less...
  but if you want this games full potential team up and go questin with someone... if you are lucky 
 you will find someone ecual you your self and have a blast..
  
  this is not another WoW... the game evolves around the action no more of this ohh noooo i killed 
 a spider i need to rest....
  
  the game uses ingame streaming for updates so there in no wretched patch day..
  
  the game 
 has no monthly fees so no more pay to play..
  
  no more xp farming and constant grinding you lvl at the right time and there arn't too many lvl's 
 max is 20 so it will take you a couple of weeks (ifyou play 20 hours a day.. like I did)
  
  so the bottom line the games acomplishes everything it is trying on.. 
  buy it try it
  you 
 will not regret it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeRasberry
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 24, 2005 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I went from WoW to this game and im happy i did. The best thing is that theres no online fee. If 
 youre playing WoW youre paying $180 a year plus the price of the game. This game is completely 
 different-you buy it and thats that. Its also very nice that theres less players in the environment 
 at a time (it helps reduce gankers) but theres stll plenty of people in towns to group up with 
 to quest. Overall the whole game is great except for the underwater environments and is definitely 
 worth your money. Right now im just typing because this review needs 100 words so this part doesnt 
 even matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordoakwind
Rating: 3.8
Date: Oct 24, 2005 11:36 am PT
Review:  This game is missing underwater enviorment, The games I had played were fun and had jumping and 
 underwater adventure. this game is simple with good graphics. I have played better games back in 
 the 90's. A game can not be just all graphics. My friends and I like our freedom. jumping around 
 and jumping down from areas. swimming is great. I know it should be up dated. I just do not like 
 it any more. I'll just play my Ultima 9. At least it had all that . To bad they didn't make another 
 Ultima like 9. Thank you for your time and please consider on up dating your games in the future. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alphamaslak
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 24, 2005 6:19 am PT
Review:  There are a couple of reasons to love and play forever this game. First of all, you do not need 
 to pay any fee to play this beautiful game. No montly fees, no weekly fees. Of course, you will 
 pay to buy the game, but there will not be any other fees; you will buy the game by the price that 
 you will pay and you will play this game forever. That's it!
  
  There are more than this. There are five character types and every character has their own abilities 
 and gameplay moves. If you choose a warrior as your character, you will have great and solid muscles. 
 So, due to a warrior's job is chrashing, breaking into pieces and hitting, your character will 
 have very strong weapon. Hammers, axes and swords will be your best friends. And your character's 
 abilities will be stronger level by level. There is only 20 level per every character, not more. 
 Because of that, you can feel bad about it.
  
  The graphics are the best part of the game. You can see it in the screenshots and gameplay movies 
 how the graphics are good. My last word is Guild Wars is the best MMORPG of this year. You should 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whiptail
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 23, 2005 5:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is a marvel. It's overall feel is not that of a typical online RPG, because it is more 
 fluid, and fraught with enemy encounters. It is more action game than RPG, though. There is not 
 really any deep player interaction, such as in World of Warcraft, but it improvises by spinning 
 off a copy of the area that you are adventuring in, towns not included. This format drastically 
 cuts down on "vulturing", or stalking others and killing them after they fight some hard enemies. 
 Towns are basically glorified chat rooms, but I found them very interesting. Of course there are 
 emotes, and it was one of my most pleasurable game experiences when i formed an air guitar band. 
 I find even after beating the game, i still hung out in arenas and towns, just to form bands or 
 talk. PvP is very fun, and i always enjoy it. The only time when you are hampered by "newbs" is 
 when they are not skilled. I once fought a level 3, (i was level 10) and the so called "newbie" 
 swept the floor with me. It was embarassing, so think before you insult new players.
  One of the best features in the game is this: NO ONLINE FEES!!!!!! No longer do you need to pay 
 for a game you have already paid for!
  Overall, this game was a great game. I recommend it to anyone. you owe it to yourself to play this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrchu
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 23, 2005 3:07 pm PT
Review:  This is a game, designed the way games should be: that doesn't mean every game should be an MMO. 
 BUT, everygame should have an engine capapble of self-updating, anti-cheating and expanding at 
 an incredible rate with no detrimental affect to the user (expect perhaps a few brief seconds of 
 downloading updates as you login) . The gamespot reviews the game in enough detail fo rme not to 
 waste my time repeating it, I will just say that from a gamers perspective this game offers the 
 kind of value for money that makes you proud to be a gamer in these current times. Go forth and 
 guild. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziggy920
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 23, 2005 11:40 am PT
Review:  Tip: There is constant updates which is but sometimes when you don't play for a while you will have 
 to download a thousand updates so just keep logging in thats a lil tip if your not in the mood 
 to play Gw "guild wars"
  
  The best thing about the game is each when you can kill a enemy and they reserve the wepons for 
 other players. Not like diablo 2 and 1 you have to get the items before anyone.
  
  The bad part of the game is the same music over and over it always make me mad  : ( and one more 
 thing you can't be evil some people don't want to be good 
  
  Well my final reponse a game that can buy from the canada, u. s. a, uk, austrlia and korea. So no shipping 
 shipping for those countries!
  
  I say buy it have fun with it =D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mercator
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 22, 2005 8:58 pm PT
Review:  I seriously love this game. It has everything one could ask for in it. If you want to solo, you 
 can. If you want to play with friends, you can. If you want to PvP, you can. If you don't want 
 to, you don't have to. It's just simply amazing. The visuals in this game are simply the best I've 
 ever seen.
  
  The game itself is almost entirely online, meaning that updates and 'fixes' to the game happen 
 everytime you log into the game, which makes the game designers job easy. And they are the best 
 out there. Thy listen to the players and respond on a weekly basis. There is constantly new content 
 being made and given FREELY to us all.
  
  Got to love that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joemania56
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 22, 2005 5:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. You can freeroam, you can do so much with your character. There is endless 
 amounts of stuff to do. Once you are done with the rpg part move on to the pvp world. The pvp never 
 gets boring because when ur bored with one arena move to the next one and by the time you have 
 gone through all the arenas the one you started with will be awesome again. Thew graphics are sweet 
 they are crystal clear. I mean you have so much to do see and they are constantly adding more to 
 the game to make it more fun and more exciting than it already is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvgeoster
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 5, 2006 12:25 pm PT
Review:  Wow! We have finally got an online RPG that is free. Thats a good start. But thankfully it isnt 
 rubbish in fact it is very good and thats because of its wide selection of skills monsters and 
 weapons and of course, because it is a online game you can talk to your mate and make friends 
 and because it hasnt had the largest fuss over its release like any other of its rivals (World 
 Of Warcraft or Matrix Online) then it is a great price to go with a great game. The graphics make 
 this the true bargin that it is. 
  
  As you battle your way around as an ascalon fighting a mix of Grawl and char who are trying to 
 take over the ascalon area and then move to the Northern Shiverpeaks and then a Maguma jungle 
 and the crystal desert and then to the Southern Shiverpeaks again and to a fire isle. As you 
 travel around you will meet lots of different people and make your friends and enemies. For those 
 friend you make you can invite them into your guild or join another. In the guild you can buy capes 
 and guild halls ( guild halls allows you to play a GvG (guild vs guild battle) and if you win you 
 gain ranking which you can see on the web page) over all a large selection of things to do. Very 
 good sould be in your game colection. The sound can get anoying after a while
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowGryphon
Rating: 5.8
Date: Oct 21, 2005 11:44 pm PT
Review:  At this point I have created and beaten the game with the 2 characters I created, been through 
 and finished Grenths footprint and Sorrows Furnace with one character, and have no desire to do 
 either with a third.
  
  GW is a game that, in all honesty, focuses on Guild v. Guild and PvP play, that isn't to say the 
 PvE aspect is horrible, far from it in fact. It's just that, for people like me who aren't big 
 on MMORPG's to begin with, doing the same thing twice (even with different character classes) is 
 boring. In reality the PvE play is really a means to an end, the end being PVP and GVG battles. 
 the entire purpose for doing PvE is simply to unlock new items for your PvP/GvG character to use.
 
  
  Even exploring the world is pointless as there is no real reward for finding new areas or even 
 finding new creatures (if you've seen them in an earlier area of a certain section of the map, 
 you'll see them everywhere in that section so there really aren't any new creatures to find)
  
  As for the creatures, they are all ,for the most part, variations on theme. the only exception 
 to this would be the showcase creatures like The Forgotten , the stone summit dwarves, the Enchanted 
 armors, the Undead and the Charr. 
  But even these tend to be clones of themselves.
  
  The only real reason I can recommend this game is because it's free to play online, but even that 
 bit of enticement grows thin after doing the same quests and mission repeatedly (yes there are 
 different character classes, but all the missions and quests are pretty much the same for each, 
 even in the early "pre-searing" stage of the game) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaborwaki22
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 21, 2005 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars has an exciting story line that keeps you going. You dont have to go out of the city 
 and kill monsters for just exp, if you dont want to. RPG in guild wars is colorful and on a kind 
 of timescale, especially as you watch the war around you happen, and even become part of it.
  If you are addicted to the popular mmorpg (which I am) you might think this game is to restricting 
 and not very colorful, but if you enjoy a good RPG and a good story line, you can delve into guild 
 wars and become part of the war. 
  Kinda feels like a diablo II kinda multiplayer atmosphere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fullaccess113
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 21, 2005 2:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is very fun, playing in single player mode is good, but playing with other people is 
 even better. by making friends u could make your game experience several times better. 
  
  in single player mode u have the whole world to your self, and if u wanted to u could go in the 
 world with an ally also. but for me personally to join a guild makes it not so lonely and more 
 fun.
  
  with so many quests for u to do, u will have many many hours of gameplay and fun. 
  
  overall 
 this game is a great achievement by the developers and i give them a high five for their job well 
 done
  
  and last but not least it DOSEN'T COST MONEY EVERY MONTH!!!! u get your moneys worth.
  
  Buy 
 the game!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmassie21
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 19, 2005 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is one of the best MMORPG's out today. Now you wanna know why right? Well, I'll tell 
 you why. First off, Guild Wars has no monthly fee. I've always wanted to play an MMORPG, but I 
 didn't have 15 bucks to dish out every month. Guild Wars is completely free, and so are most of 
 the updates.
  
  The updates, thats another great thing about this game. Hate having to go and dowload a patch once 
 a week? Well, with GW you don't have to. The game uses streaming technology to make every update 
 a quick and easy download-as soon as you start up the game!
  
  The graphics are amazing! I found myself stopping often to look at a waterfall, or the mountains, 
 or the ocean. The characters are great, the cutscenes are great... this game has some of the best 
 graphics I've seen so far. Now the story is awesome. They must have had some famous authors or 
 something, because playing GW is like reading a good book or watching an awesome movie. The story 
 to GW has a lot of depth and must have took some time to think up.
  
  The music in GW is okay, but I've heard better. Another bad thing about GW when it comes to music 
 is that you have to purchase some of the music patches. I think GW could have done better in the 
 sound department to. When by a river, you dont hear any moving water. The animals in the game dont 
 growl or chirp, either.
  
  If you want an overall good MMORPG, but you don't want the monthly fee, spend the 50 dollars and 
 get Guild Wars. You'll be glad you did.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: casan02
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 19, 2005 10:48 am PT
Review:  
  This game is absolutley incredible. The graphics are top-of-the-line, but other than that, what 
 makes the game amazing is the kind of stuff you can do. The game always updates while you play, 
 so waiting for those pathces are now gone. And when you create a character, you can choose one 
 of the six classes. The Warrior, the Ranger, the Monk, the Elementalist, the Mesmer, or the Necromancer. 
 Later on you can have your character a second class if you so desire. You'll then be taken in a 
 selection windos of where you want your character to play. You can either choose the Role-Playing 
 Mode, or the PVP Combat Mode. In the PVP Mode you're character is at maximum level, you can customozie 
 him on what his powerful weapons are, and choose his skills, but if you want more of it, then I 
 recommend that you play a character in the Role-Play mode to unlock weapons, and skills so that 
 the PVP can use. 
  
  Another thing I like is that your character has his own private map to explore. This means that 
 when you go to the wilderness, you are the only PC in the world, and everyone is NPC, unless you 
 invite another PC to help you on quests. I think this is good, because it prevents form other players 
 to steal your spoils of wars.
  
  Also as you level up, you get skill points that you use to imprpve your abilites. If you regret 
 adding poitns to a certan skill, you can always get a refund by using Refund Points. The best thing 
 is that you get 1 refund point for every 250 Xps that you gain. 
  
  The death penalty is not serious. All it does is that when you die, you loose a percent of your 
 overall strentgh power. You can get rid of that penalty by simply killing monsters. 
  
  The quests are easy to medium, and the rewards you get are fair for the type of quests that you 
 do.
  
  As a small note, this game does not require a subscription fee, and the max level is 20, but they 
 may raise it later on. Also once your character hits level 20, is is not over for him. He can still 
 earn skill points with xps, and quests. When I firsts played it, you have no idea now many players 
 were in there!
  
  This game barely has bugs, and it would be great if you have the power to own property, or a small 
 house. And it would also be great if you can have your own vendor for selling items. It is possible 
 that they may add this later on. 
  
  PROS: free subscription, great graphics, no loading patches, and the PVP that it has is not forced 
 by the player, but a player's choice. I recommend this game for anyone who loves playing comptetions 
 with other ppls, and going to level 20 is not much of a burden, and it is very easy.
  
  CONS: The game can easily get repetetive, in the same fashion of hack-n-slash, like other MMORPGs. 
 Can't own houses, there's no vendor option or Auction House system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrysonMico
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 19, 2005 1:25 am PT
Review:  ok yeah at first i was so excited to play this game was like ahhh awesome GUILD WARS ... first 
 impression i was in love with it ... but after a day i got really bored cause its the same CRAP 
 over and over and over again and it get so boring and then like switching to the other world.. 
 making it O DRAMATIC naw its crap but it kinda cool coloring ur armor and wearing a cape but .. 
 i wish like capes were rare to get and not so easy other then that inless i was bored out my mind... 
 or if there was an update on final fantasy 11.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 18, 2005 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a great game for all MMO fans out there for a couple reasons first it's free =] second 
 the graphics are amazing and it doesn't require to powerful of a rig to play, 3rd a lot people 
 do play this game, 4th everyone (mostly everyone) is nice on the game, 5th it grows on you. What 
 I mean by that is that at first it's pretty boring at least to me because your level 1 and you 
 wanna get on with but you can't, 2nd you have to be careful about what guild you join with AND 
 your party if you don't you'll get screwed BIG TIME. A nice guild like my guild the Ascending Lords 
 helps out a lot and provides with a lot of Guild vs Guild. 
  
  But on to the review now. As we i said the graphics are amazing, sound has orchestral music such 
 as in any MMO game and fits in just right with the game. Learning the game can be quite tough at 
 times, you must figure out what attributes you wnat what is the best and how much goes into each 
 one, AND what skills you want to use (maximum are 8 skills) so you must be careful. Also in both 
 these subjects falls the secondary proffession you can choose between and other profession that 
 of course you are not yet, this falls also in the difficulty of which attributes to put your secondary 
 skills into and which skills to put in. Now it may seem that I am going harsh on the game but i'm 
 not i'm just warning the readers/gamers out there and of course MMO's were never ment to be easy.
 
  
  Now if your looking for a longer experience, larger world, and more people than what you expect 
 this is not the game for you. 1st reason this game you can only go up to level 20, the world is 
 huge but not as big as World of Warcraft or Everquest 2. Although this is a free game you can't 
 expect to much out of this game with all these minor flaws it only brings it down to a 9.7 it is 
 addicting though such as any other game people will love this game and thats why i give it a MUST 
 HAVE GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saerith
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2005 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Wow I never imagined this game would be so good. t has a way of making you go into another world 
 full of monsters and PVP. It is definitely worth the money and heck! it's FREE!! 
  
  You start off a little confused of course and you gotta start asking around, what is this? what 
 is that? But you can get the hang of it pretty quickly. The game is full of interesting missions 
 and quests that will entertain you for 200 hours easy. I've been playing for 400 hours now and 
 I"m still not even warmed up. One of the great things about this game is that you can play it for 
 a little while, get off and come back again with everything intact.
  
  And the guilds? Wow don't get me started. The guild is one of the greatest inventions in this game. 
 You got a whole bunch of buddies to play with and go PVP'ing with and you think. "Man this is a 
 great game!"You get so many good experiences from it that are worthwhile and memorable! 
  
  I have seen my share of good and bad RPG"S , and this one falls right under the seal of supreme 
 excellence. Guild Wars FTW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moogle10000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 17, 2005 11:51 pm PT
Review:  I must commend the makers of Guild Wars for solving one of the terrible dilemmas of the MMORPG 
 industry: the monthly fee. One of my issues with MMORPGs is that I have a very "bursty" style of 
 gameplay: I'll play for several weeks then I'll drop off and not play for periods of months at 
 a time (albeit sometimes the periods are significantly less, ranging from days to weeks to months) . 
 I was always upset with paying a monthly fee for MMORPGs due to my playing style. Guild Wars has 
 solved this problem for me by not having a monthly fee - I would imagine that many other players 
 feel this way.
  
  I must also commend the makers of Guild Wars for their excellent Windows programming skills. Their 
 software cries the quality of other giants like Blizzard, id Software, etc. Its no surprise that 
 several of the developers from Guild Wars are ex-Blizzard employees. The Guild Wars client is one 
 of the smoothest running pieces of software that I've seen in a long time. From instantaneous quitting 
 to in-game-streaming updates - the software gives a true feeling of quality.
  
  The gameplay is also excellent, if not slightly tiring at times. The whole skills thing can feel 
 a little complex and difficult to manage. I definately preferred the Diablo II skills system to 
 the Guild Wars system. That and all the skills feel as if they have the same strength -- It doesn't 
 feel as if there is enough variety there. 
  
  Aside from these few small imperfections, Guild Wars is an extremely fun game to play and is graphically 
 stunning (and runs surprisingly well on lower-end hardware) . I also have rated it "revolutionary" 
 in the sense that it is the first true commerical-MMORPG that does not require a monthly fee to 
 play... A truly commendable feat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madformadness
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 17, 2005 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I found this game quite fun., but recently i noticed that most reviews kept babbling about how 
 good it is not because of the gameplay.. because its "free" The leveling system.. level 20cap, way 
 too low. The whole world is empty . you get to see other players only in a town.. only in pvp.. 
 the pvp is small. There is almost nothing but eyecandy and soundeffects in this game. theres a 
 reason why its free. Becuase this is one of the not so great online games... Those that call it 
 an MMO are wrong. MMOs are people that are EVERYWHERE... outside village. The classes are not balanced. 
 When your playing as an archer. you stay still the entire time your fighting a Monster. the game 
 is all grind and pvp. Nothing more. The quests are very repetative. The grind is too much. THose 
 that said Lineage2 was an all grind game is right.. but thats nothing compared to what guildwars 
 is. Lineage 2 now is in C4 they pumped it up to less grind more activity/RP. World of warcraft, 
 yes you pay for all these MMos but if you played runescape, and they pump up the graphics abit 
 on that game.. well maybe pump it up alot.. It would be alot more fun than guildwars. Im sorry but 
 this game was only great to me because its free. Yeah its free... but if you look at the gameplay 
 its too simple.. a 5 year old can play it. The graphics are amazingly nice. The sound effects also 
 nice. The game is way too short. once you reach 20 do some pvp.. some other misc things. Thats all. 
 If you have good money to spend play Everquest2/Lineage 2/ World of warcraft etc. This is a nice 
 game, but i think it may be too overated.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burdman519
Rating: 7.7
Date: Oct 17, 2005 4:39 pm PT
Review:  I believed that this game was good to a point, it was very entertaining for the first while, especially 
 being able to play with friends and easily manage and keep track of them. The guilding system was 
 cool but seemed way too uneventful at the begining of the game. One major problem i had with this 
 game was the level cap. 20 seemed a bit too quick for me, and with extremely slow way you gained 
 any useful items, it felt like after you hit level 20, there were basically no more rewards. I 
 am hoping very much that the new expansions will seek to remedy not only the level cap, but also 
 expand the item pool so that each character can use a bit more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TanisGosu
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 17, 2005 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars can be good for so many reasons. First of all, the best free MMORPG. That reason may 
 not be good for everyone, since some people can pay more than 100$ per year to play a game and 
 not even feel a difference, but for others, it's the game they've always been waiting for and they 
 will not be disappointed. The graphics are absolutly amazing. The sounds always fit in the situation, 
 whether you're in combat or running through a village. The storyline can be a little weird. The 
 enemies in the game change often, which is relatively disappointing. The story still is pretty 
 good and it all fits together well. There are some bugs with the walking around ( getting stuck 
 in an inch high wall) , and it can be annoying to a certain point. Put aside those little gameplay 
 bugs, Guild Wars can become boring after you've finished the story 2-3 times. Once you've finished 
 the story your goal will probably be to unlock the most skills possible, and believe me, it's long. 
 Once you've got the skills you want, you'll go PvP. That part of the game is the most thrilling 
 and satisfying. You'll feel the hundreds of hours you've invested in skill capturing wasn't for 
 nothing. When your 8 man party crushes another, the feeling is absolutly satisfying. You can also 
 unlock skills by accumulating points by winning in PvP, so for the ones who hate killing monsters 
 over and over again, you can still PvP and unlock skills without doing a lot of hours in the PvE 
 part of the game.
  
  Overall, Guild Wars is a must for people who like multi-player adventure games or for the ones 
 who love PvP and i believe that includes everyone that likes playing a video game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tysonius
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 17, 2005 3:13 pm PT
Review:  I don't think I can beat what others have said about Guild Wars, so I'll keep this short and sweet. 
 First, it should be noted that there's quite a difference between the game when you start it, and 
 after you pass the gates of the Academy, both visually and in the quests and intensity of gameplay. 
 Basically, everything you do up until you enter the Academy is preparation for the real world -- which 
 hits you like a train right after you pass the gates...
  
  When beginning, the attractive graphics are the first thing one notices about the game -- the scenery 
 is idyllic, the towns and keeps are those of high fantasy, and the costumes both novel and attractive. 
 There is a soft glow to everything, which gives the impression of moving in a dream, or some earthly 
 paradise. The music compliments the scenery; the producers did a great job on the score for this 
 game.
  
  The number of character classes is limited, as are the number of races (human, human, and more 
 human) , but I feel the flexibility in skills and spells, as well as the number available of each, 
 more than makes up for any perceived lack of variety elsewhere. You receive a number of skill points 
 to apply to whichever skills you wish to focus on, but you can change these between quests/missions 
 when you are in town. In fact, you will need to, depending on whether you're travelling solo or 
 grouped. Your character will have a primary and secondary class, which will determine what skills 
 are available to you. Some combinations compliment each other, others will merely make a wider 
 range of skills and spells available. 
  
  The quests are initially simple and easily completed, though it may be necessary to think before 
 charging into new situations. However, I was generally able to accomplish quests involving combat 
 with little difficulty.
  
  As one kills enemies, one collects a number of items that can be used or sold, or if raw materials, 
 can be provided to a craftsman who can then create or upgrade an item to make it more powerful.
 
  
  After completing a number of quests, and generally learning the mechanics of the game and becoming 
 familiar with the controls, one is ready to enter the academy (I had a monk/ranger at lvl 8, though 
 you can enter earlier) . One must complete a test of combat with other teammates/NPCs, which, if 
 you've not teamed with anyone before, provides a quick baptism into multiplayer combat -- fast-paced, 
 violent, and shifting at the drop of a dime.
  
  At this point your character witnesses the Scorching, which basically obliterates all of the lovely 
 scenery you've been playing in, and replaces it with slag. In addition, the inhabitants become 
 much uglier, meaner, and tougher. No more solo expeditions, I'm afraid. However, if you don't wish 
 to group with other people, you can ask several NPCs standing near the gate of any town to accompany 
 you on your quest. Their AI is quite satisfactory, though they attack your target only, and aren't 
 able to accomplish complex commands. Still, it's better than not being able to play without others 
 at all.
  
  The quests at this point are much more difficult on average than those you accomplished prior to 
 the Scorching. They require more travel, more combat, and more _difficult_ combat, in that there 
 are more enemies who are also tougher than what you've met before, especially the Char. It is possible 
 to succeed with NPCs, but I have to say, it's much easier travelling with other people (who come 
 with a much better AI :) ) .
  
  I've not played all the way through to lvl 20 yet (the highest level available) , and no expansions 
 have been released so far, but the game's been very enjoyable to date. If you are looking for a 
 game with no monthly subscription that enables you to engage in fierce multiplayer combat in a 
 fantasy setting -- with gorgeous spell effects and other visuals -- and don't have a need for owning 
 property, fishing, baking bread or building your own items, then perhaps Guild Wars will satisfy 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrantickBantick
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 16, 2005 5:05 am PT
Review:  I know people will completely disagree with me but i think this is the Greatest PC game I have 
 ever played - I love this game!!! there is so many things you can do with it, Play through the 
 game, play PvP, Make a Guild, its got everything, and the best part is that u dont have 2 pay!!! 
 Ive only got 1 bad thing to say about this is that the highest level is 20, i mean its quite hard 
 to get to level 20 but when you get there all there is to do is get another lvl 20 and it gets 
 boring so if they bring an expansion pack out for it - which i hope thay do - increase the highest 
 level please, but overall its a fantasic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Disconnecktie
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 14, 2005 8:10 pm PT
Review:  I waited for this game for well over a year before it was released. I didn't have the greatest 
 graphics card either which I quickly upgraded. Along with many other people, I played on the Beta 
 events. It was just an amazing game. I had always thought of a game to be like this and finally 
 it came. Even if you aren't a person who has played MMO's before, it's not hard to get into. It 
 has a good story and the gameplay isn't confusing. You know where you're going most of the time 
 and what you have to do. Keep checking your quest log and make sure you don't miss details in the 
 description. Like in WoW where the quest destination point is emphasized in the mini map, it comes 
 in handy in GW as well. If you haven't played it, I suggest you get out and get your hands on it. 
 There also won't be that monthly charge that ends up racking to like 1000$ because you can't stop 
 playing the game. Great Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barzin
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2005 4:05 pm PT
Review:  PVE or player vs. computer is dumb. Your computer is stupid... other people are not. The PVP part 
 of guild wars in incredible. Its truly something all gamers should experience because it's so 
 wild. GW PVP is its own world. You gain skills and power based on wins and kills and the playing 
 field is very even. I smart gamer could do well GW in a matter of weeks. YOU can build you character 
 anyway you want as long as you have unlocked the skills. You can only take limited number skills 
 and weapons (out of the hundreds to choice from) in a battle sequence and you're stuck with it. 
 These characters you take into battle are called "BUILDS" and there is a lot of information and 
 the web on the best builds for certain functions like healing or doing lot damage or shutting down 
 healers etc. You never know what the other team is packing until you start fighting and sometime 
 you win and sometimes you lose because the have the exact skills to counter yours. NOBODY OWNS 
 Guild Wars, it's too balanced, good players are mostly SMART players who do their research and 
 play smart... 
  
  The PRG part or PVE part is okay. I'm not really into it. You can get cooler looking armor and 
 weapons but the protection and damage is the same you can get in PVP. 
  
  I love this game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KronanGS
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2005 4:05 am PT
Review:  I think it is and oustanding game. Character creation is great you really get immerse in the game. 
 I want to play it everyday. With it being online you can relly on any issues beeing sorted in no 
 time, any game play hitch get changed to become more fair to all. I can only think of good points 
 about the game and the experience of playing it. You don't even mind dying since you still feel 
 you are progressing with each death, and since I am not a really good gamer it is important to 
 me. The fact that I am on a dial up modem doesn't seem to stop me playing what ever adventure. 
 I like playing on my own and the game allows that without any glitch, finding a group to play with 
 is actually just as fun. Highly recommend it to any one interrested in the genre. With all the 
 updates and stuff the future looks bright for the game I think it will go from strength to strength. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodMode
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 13, 2005 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars.... how do I start. One of the most amazing RPG's to date. It mixed PvP and the RPG 
 elements to well that anyone that picks this game up will be satisfied for months! The graphics 
 and landscapes are absolutely stunning. Graphics definetly blow away WoW. I am also impressed by 
 how smooth the gameplay in this game is. This game never seems to have a dull moment making it 
 fun to play all the way through. It has a very solid storyline, telling the tale of whats happening 
 to the human race. The only problem I found with GW was that it was easy to come across somebody 
 with the same armor and weapon as you. But, still i picked it up play and love it. No questions 
 asked this game is a top contender for best RPG of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryhion
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 13, 2005 1:29 pm PT
Review:  I was wxcpecting for something worse, but the objectivity of the game is briliant evereything is 
 in the right place, just the charcter creation, or the six but enough professions, (Necromencer, 
 Warrior, Mesmer, Ranger, Monk, Elementalist) , the trading system, the spell names etc, I can say 
 that from the time I've picked up the box in the store, and instled the game in my computer, and 
 started to play, the money was well spent.
  You can create a character from the begining, or you can create a character just right in the top 
 levels but that will limit the spels allot, ic conclusion, I recomend you to buy and play this 
 surprisingly god 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenJaws219
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 13, 2005 12:50 pm PT
Review:  First off, anyone that say this game belongs in the MMORPG is wrong, this is not a MMORPG, because 
 when you go hunting, the whole map is to yourself, unless you bring people along in your party, 
 max of 6, and you can then do quest/missions. Why they did this you ask? To avoid loot-stealing, 
 spawn-killing, experience loss due to death and many dismal aspects from a MMORPG, which at the 
 end, made this game an Online RPG.
  The game will take a while, for all those quests and missions, but after that it's time to go collect 
 skills and compete in the PvP arenas, it might keep you occupy for about a month, but that's it, 
 I quit playing after it because there's virtually nothing to do. Getting a party in PvP is a pain 
 in the a**, because everyone wants to get a good party, if you're not up to the challenge, have 
 fun looking for a crappier team in about a hour then to have your a** kick in like 5 minutes. Also, 
 you can't buy house, or marry or other standard feature in MMORPG that keeps you busy. The best 
 aspect of a MMORPG, is definately, hunting monster for good weapons, armors, etc. But this is impossible 
 to do in the game, because you level max out at lvl 20, and monsters that drop the best stuff are 
 lvl 24, already you at an disadvantage, and most of the time, they travel in groups which make 
 it impossible to solo. Sure you can get into a party, but the loot dropped are reserved for a certain 
 player and they tend to be pretty random, so usually you get good weapons from long missions, but 
 once you're done the game, it's hard to find good loot, which is really really bad for a RPG.
 
  Overall, it's a good innovation, to create a game in the middle of a RPG and MMORPG and Guild 
 War is what you get, hopefully, they add in some more MMORPG features but I guess, no monthly fees, 
 this is as good as it gets. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magrath26
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 12, 2005 9:09 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of Guildwars in gaming magazine, I was pleased to hear that it wouldn't follow 
 the traditional monthly payment just like all the other Massively Multiplayer Online Role-Playing 
 Game (MMORPG) . I also liked the idea that the game relies more on player skill rather than player 
 level. Even though it still had parts of the leveling up scheme in it, it still was quite fun just 
 when you start off. The choice of class was very similar to those of other MMORPGs, but provided 
 a twist for those who want to explore more than 1 class soon after the game starts. There are also 
 a variety of quests, rather than just kill this and kill that quests that never end. There are 
 quests for those who like a good search, and there are quests for those who just want to kill the 
 largest enemy they can find. 
  
  I found this game overall a worthwhile experience and would recommend this to any gamer, whether 
 they be a casual gamer, or a hardcore gamer. Bottom line: buy this game if you prefer not to pay 
 monthly for other MMORPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quicksilver_101
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 12, 2005 12:54 am PT
Review:  As a lot of Reviews alreday have been written i will concentrate on the game fun for the long time.
 
  For a PvP Player Guildwars is clearly one of the best Choices. The Game is well balanced and due 
 to regulary updates the balance is kept very well. The two major Game modes for PvP are the Tombs 
 an the Guild Battles. Tombs have a lot of different modes and the greatest Fun (and Challange) 
 is that you will be playing against the best Players around the World, since everybody is playing 
 on the same instance. Guild Battles have only one Mode but the different Guild Halls add some variation. 
 Being in a Guild, trying new Charakterbuilds with different skills and Strategies is a lot of fun. 
 Since there are held regulary tournaments even after weeks of PvP there is still more to win. With 
 sthe upcoming expansion Pack (eta Spring 2006) there will be more challanges in the GvG mode.
 
  But what is with PvE? PvE starts with quite a lot of Fun. The tutorial is gets you right into 
 the story and since you made ist down into Hell and back the Game is quite a challange and a lot 
 of fun. But there are some things where the PvE lacks the long time fun.
  First, the Game is is no true RPG. Yeah, it's a fantasy game with character improvement but that 
 doesn't make it a real RPG. If you are into classic D&D with medival speach an want to be part 
 of a changing World you will be dissapointet. The World is static. No Houses to live in and none 
 of ypur actions will change the World. Next thing is, you play the STory once and even a second 
 time. But will you play the same Missions, same story a third or fourth time? Arena Net released 
 new Areas in the SUmmer update a few weeks ago so you have some new challanges and some good rewards. 
 But if you are through all the Missions there is nothing left but play it all over again with a 
 different character.
  But that doesn't mean the Game has nothing to give for the PvE Players. You will spend Weeks in 
 bringing your Character to level 20 and get through the Story. This is a hell of fun especially 
 if you are playing with Friends or experienced players who know the Word "teamwork". But if you 
 are thorugh thats it.
  Conclusion:
  I've played GW since the first day of release and had a lot of fun since then. I've played 4 Characters 
 through the story, where in lots of PvP and GvG fights but since I am more of a real RPG and PvE 
 player the game now has only few left to do for me. But since there are no monthly fees this Game 
 is a must have for all Online Players and Solo Players interestet in Fantasy. For PvP there are 
 only few better games. The game has a huge amount of things you can do - much more than some single 
 Player Games I've seen. It's worth its price, even more than that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsr1138
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2005 8:45 pm PT
Review:  I have tried several mmorpgs in the past: Eve-online, Anarchy Online, and Earth and Beyond. Each 
 of the games were interesting and entertaining in the short term. Unfortunately, the aspect of 
 grinding and levelling seemed to much like work for me. Guild Wars was the first game of this genre 
 where levelling up was not a chore, but fun and exciting. The fact that it has a storyline makes 
 the whole experience more compelling. 
  
  There are some aspects of the game, like all games, that can be frustrating at times. Guild Wars 
 relys heavely on the Multiplayer aspect of gaming, although the game can be played without online 
 players the prospect of successfully completing mission with NPCs is significantly harder (some 
 missions I could not complete with NPCs at all) . Of course part of the fun is teaming up with other 
 players, so go for it, get in with a guild and play.
  
  At this point this is my all time favorite game. Guild Wars is quite challenging and fun. I feel 
 that ArenaNet has set a high standard for gaming in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elemonkey
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2005 5:21 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Guild Wars for about 4 months and it has been great fun. My girlfriend and 
 I both enjoy playing Guild Wars together. This is a game that will not be short lived as it provides 
 tons of areas to explore and quests to complete. 
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is great and easy to learn. Sometimes it can be hard to control your character 
 without the aid of hotkeys, but its just a small complaint.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are excellent, especially for an online RPG. A lot of this 
 comes from the technology used in the game itself that cuts down on so much loading time and lagging.
 
  
  Sound: The sound is great , but just like most MMO's, the music becomes repetitive pretty quickly. 
 The quality of the sound and score is excellent despite this drawback.
  
  Overall: This game is great! If you have any interest at all in MMO's give this game a try. I'm 
 sure that you will be pleased!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiei48
Rating: 9.9
Date: Oct 11, 2005 12:02 pm PT
Review:  so this game rules i can tell u that right now screw WoW or FFXI buy this game there is no monthly 
 and is 1 of the most addicting games ive ever played. basically its the same as n e MMORPG but 
 the twist is no monthly and the fact that if u dont get a party ur screwed but whatever this game 
 still owns ur sorry little 4$$i dont own this game: ( but i love it and am hoping to own it soon:) 
 but blah blah blah basically what im saying is BUY THIS GAME!!! it rules. so the graphics r amazing 
 but nothing to demanding and the sound well its what u get out of anything medieval type or sumthin 
 i dont know i didnt hear it im partially deaf so:) but who cares the pvp is awesome and basically 
 everything about this game is amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dougalkronik
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 11, 2005 6:40 am PT
Review:  The first thing you'll probably hear anyone tell you about this game is that it had NO MONTHLY 
 FEE!!!! That alone should be enough to convert any MMORPG player. 
  
  Guild Wars operates on a skill based system. Where you set up to 8 skills from a possible 50-60 
 depending on what you expect to encounter. The personal copy of the Player vs. Environment map 
 or area is nice in that it reduces lag and allows you and some friends (or solo with henchman) 
 to fully explore and defeat all your enemies and to collect all the rewards. The prevention of 
 unwanted Player killing and drop stealing is a breath of fresh air. 
  
  The economy is great with a simple yet immersive crafting system. You can either salvage the required 
 items to craft that new piece of armor or you can go and buy the items for more gold but less hassle 
 trying to find the area to get scales! 
  
  The availability of armor and weapons - more would have been nice and some more variety. Trying 
 to rush to Lion's Arch to be able to buy the better armor without being run there is an invitation 
 to high mortality rates! A nice thing about the death of your character and the resurrection at 
 one of the two Resurrection Points in each area - is the temporary negative percentage Death Penalty 
 (DP) that disappears once back in a town or over time with the accumulation of XP. 
  
  With the support of DirectSong the music is constantly being updated and expanded - it has a very 
 nice soundtrack.
  
  Game play is very easy to learn with the only clicking being - Select target, select skill, (repeat 
 skill selection as necessary to keep alive or until target dies) , repeat. The skill system drives 
 the game especially when adventuring with other players.
  
  The graphics are gorgeous! There have been times when I would just sit and watch the landscape 
 and see the creatures moving around, or sea creatures swimming.
  
  Definitely buy this game if you have any friends and live on a budget of some kind!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metamorbis
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 10, 2005 8:29 pm PT
Review:  I picked up Guild Wars because it was the only MMO on the market that did not have a monthly fee. 
 This is the first of many ingenious moves that the Guild Wars developers did to spark its success.
 
  
  Another one of these things is its uniqueness that almost separates itself into another category. 
 This is because the only real MMO part of the game happens in towns and the arenas. This also becomes 
 its biggest flaw. Not everybody is too keen on going out with some stranger and doing nothing but 
 leveling up.
  
  Another flaw is the gameplay. I find it incredibly boring when I just have to click on my target 
 and I start attacking it. If you choose to be a spellcaster, this problem is negated, but when 
 I am fighting with my warrior, I can't stand it.
  
  Don't get me wrong though, this is still a great game, with great graphics, great concept, great 
 world, and best of all, great possibilities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ttheguy09
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 10, 2005 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is glorious. Eveyone always says, "Yea, sure its alright, but Warcraft 3 is much better." 
 First of all, you have to pay monthly payments, and Guild Wars does not require this. Secondly, 
 it's not better. Guild Wars has far better graphics, and its better because you create your Guild. 
 You arn't thrown into one depending on your race. The quests are hard, but at the same time they 
 are not impossible. Its also fun to have a group and do the quest together. Team work is a lot 
 funner than flying solo. In Guild Wars, there is a Pre-seering world that basically familiarizes 
 new users with the way the game works. After you move on, there are seemingly countless quests, 
 and very hard cooperative missions. You buy the game for about $45, and thats it. Like I said, 
 its the best game you can buy for the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pedro_v
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 10, 2005 4:13 pm PT
Review:  I have played Guild Wars with 2 different players. One was a Ranger/Warrior and the other was a 
 Elementalist/Warrior. It is a very addicting game, but it gets very repetitive after a while. It 
 is very fun to play but more fun to play with your friends. The reason I say it gets very repetative 
 is because if you fail a mission numerous times, it gets very boring. It also is repetitive because 
 you keep killing the same enemies. I found it very easy in the beginning, but after I got to Kryta, 
 the enemies were very difficult. I eventually gave up playing it. I started again, and it was addicting, 
 but it got too hard. I'm usually very good at video games. I guess I just don't have the patience 
 to keep killing the same enemies trying to level up. This review is probably getting repetitive 
 so, I reccomend this game if you have good patience and like RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameMaster1212
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 30, 2005 9:02 pm PT
Review:  The first time I played this game, I stayed up past 1 in the morning trying to get as far as I 
 could in pre-searing. One day, I played it 9 hours straight due to its immense game play and deep 
 story line. One of the great features in this game is its selection of professions to choose from. 
 There are 6 to choose from. Mesmer, which is an illusionist, is most effective on spell casting 
 characters. Necromancers sacrifice health to heal, curse spells, or raise the dead. Elementalists, 
 which are my favorite, are major damage dealing professions. Choose air, fire, earth, or water 
 to aid you in battle. Warriors use brute force to scare weaker proffesions and execute quickly. 
 If you choose a Monk, you can heal fellow teammates, or smite opposing foes! The ranger is one 
 with nature and can get an animal companion to help in a brawl. They specialize in using a bow 
 to defeat enemies.
  Even though the story line is fantastic, the PVP mode is even better! There are 4 different ways 
 to PVP. They have a plenitude of arenas to battle in. In Competition Arenas, you are randomly put 
 into a group and fight it out gladiator style. To me, this is the beginner PVP mode because you 
 may not get a healer, so it can be easy or hard. Then you have Team Arenas where you assemble a 
 team and fight against man made teams. This is much harder than Competition Arenas, because every 
 team usually has a healer, and you have to take them out first. If you are godly at PVP mode, you 
 should try Hall of Heroes. In this, you fight other countries! Isn't that awesome!? This is highly 
 advised for experienced PVPers only. If you are good enough, you can get to the last stage in it, 
 which is called Hall of Heroes, watch out of Korea!!! They are amazing at this game and will literally 
 take out your team in a matter of seconds. I've expierenced this first hand countless times. 
 
  In roleplaying mode, if you're in a guild, you can do something called a Guild Battle. This enables 
 you to fight other guild to make your rank higher and rating greater.
  Overall, get this game at your local video game store because this game never ends! Build your 
 character from scratch, chose your profession, and get started! What are you waiting for!?!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: man_diesel789
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 25, 2005 5:04 am PT
Review:  The armor choice is fairly well. But it lacks a little. You can customize the color and all but 
 the different kinds of armor is lacking. I would say thats about the ONLY down fall of this game. 
 The weapon selection is good. The missions are AMAZING. And their are quests if thats your thing. 
 O ya... did i mention. The regular random team pvp is AWSOME. Its like you are playing cs or some 
 other game only with little characters running around killing each other with your extreme skill 
 and pwnage. Yes I would reccomend this game to lots of people. In fact I am in that process right 
 now. have about 4 people convinced. The only people i would not reccomend this to is if you only 
 enjoy killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing killing and 
 killing and leveling to
  250. If thats your game i would recommend rose online www. roseon. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SwollenFridge
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 15, 2006 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Pros: Fast-paced, extremely fun combat; tons of character combinations and staggering amount of 
 skills lend a lot of replayability; huge, fun PvE game; best online RPG PvP yet; terrific graphics 
 that scale really well; frequently improved but very quick loading times; huge world; no "realms"; 
 serviceable henchmen allow for solo play; it's about skill, not time invested; huge and spectactular 
 missions.
  
  Cons: No voice support out of the box; some people quit midmission.
  
  Guild Wars is a very innovative game that's different from pretty much any other online RPG out 
 there. To start off, we'll get the obvious out of the way: there are no monthly fees in this game. 
 None. That said, this game is not a traditional MMORPG (Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing 
 Game) in any manner. Guild Wars combines a lot of the best aspects of those games and innovates 
 in a lot of ways, though, and it's a game that it is strongly advised you try out, even if you're 
 not looking for an MMORPG or if you're looking for a more traditional one like World of Warcraft.
 
  
  Guild Wars distances itself from other MMORPG's in a lot of ways, but the biggest one is that almost 
 all of the gameworld is instanced. What does this mean? Well, once you get out into the world, 
 the game creates a separate world for you, so you won't encounter any other players - just enemies 
 and NPC's, computer controlled players already in the gameworld. Instanced quests have their drawbacks 
 and advantages. It does make the game seem a little less seamless and less immersive as well, an 
 attribute that MMO's like World of Warcraft don't suffer from. That said, instanced quests has 
 its advantages as well, whether it's the refreshing lack of respawning monsters that kill you from 
 behind or the new ability to warp into previously explored cities.
  
  Cities are essentially where the "online" component of Guild Wars comes into play. They are neutral 
 zones, the only place where players can meet and group up, as well as where a lot of merchants 
 and skill trainers and the like can be found (although some are also found scattered out in the 
 wild) . As previously mentioned, you can warp to any city you've previously explored. This may take 
 out of the immersiveness of Guild Wars, but that's not the point anyway, as it really helps facilitate 
 short gameplay sessions and dramatically cuts down on the time you spend aimlessly walking around. 
 Plus, you still need to do some minimal amount of exploration, especially if you want to find all 
 the cities and quests. Luckily, this time is easily invested, as the world of Guild Wars is beautiful 
 and littered with spectacular sights.
  
  Guild Wars eases you in pretty easily. You start as a pretty typical level 1 grunt of one of the 
 six classes: ranger, a bow and arrow guy who has a pet; necromancer, a poison/life-sucker guy who 
 can also raise the dead; warrior, a strong melee class with serious combat skills; elementalist, 
 a ranged combat class who calls on the "elemental" powers such as air, fire, and water; mesmer, 
 a manipulator who does illusions and deception; and monk, an extremely potent healer that is typically 
 the most wanted class in Guild Wars. Once you choose your class, name, and appearance, you're introduced 
 to the stunning Guild Wars world, where virtually everything is happy and nice, although there 
 is a foreboding element in the air...
  
  You will pick up a couple of your class skills pretty quickly, but pretty soon you'll be allowed 
 to pick a secondary class. Secondary classes are one of the many ways Guild Wars distinguishes 
 itself from the competitions. Essentially, you get to have all the skills of the secondary class 
 as well as your own, although you retain the appearance of your primary class, and you do not get 
 access to the primary attribute of that class. Attributes can be improved each time you level, 
 and they range from improving your damage with a bow or a sword (ranger and warrior attributes, 
 respectively) , to improving your fire magic or blood magic (elementalist and necromancer) , which 
 will then improve your skills that are under that category. Guild Wars is a forgiving game in most 
 aspects, and it won't punish you for screwing up early because you weren't in the know, you can 
 rearrange all your attributes for free any time you're in a city (a change from the original attribute 
 refund system that the game launched with, which has been patched out now) . This lets you experiment 
 with your attributes, giving Guild Wars a versatility other games lack. Each class has a primary 
 attribute that only people of that primary profession have access to. For example, if someone created 
 a Ranger/Mesmer (primary Ranger with Mesmer as their second class) , they wouldn't have access to 
 the primary Mesmer attribute, which speeds up the casting time of all spells. Guild Wars' secondary 
 professions system has 36 different combinations, lending all characters unique capabilities in 
 the world, and pretty much all of them are good, even if some are underused (Warrior/Ranger's are 
 not seen very often) .
  
  However, even if there were no secondary professions, everybody would still be different. Why? 
 Well, once you go out into the game world, you are only allowed to take eight skills (spells) with 
 you - out of a pool of hundreds, once you get most of them. This is difficult enough as it is, 
 but they also need to complement each other, as well as play to the strength of your attributes 
 - a number of spells that have very high mana cost may be very powerful but you probably won't 
 be able to use them all the time, rendering most of them ineffectual. This lends the game even 
 more versatility, as their are various ways you can play each class. For example, there are "Protection 
 Monks", who use their protection skills to prevent damage, "Healing Monks", who can heal already 
 inflicted damage, and even "Smiting Monks", who use their powers to strike down their enemies. 
 This much versatility all in one class - but these people also have secondary professions, which 
 lend them even more distinction - you can have a Monk/Necromancer that uses protection skills and 
 raises the dead, a Warrior/Monk that wields an axe and uses his monk skills to heal himself, a 
 Ranger/Mesmer who lays traps and uses Illusion magic to confuse his enemies, and so forth. The 
 possibilities are pretty much limitless, and since your attributes can always be switched on, you 
 can pretty much switch between play styles whenever you want - with one character. This does lead 
 to one of the few quibbles I have with the game, that being that there are only four possible characters 
 per account.
  
  Once you get past the training area and you have learned all the skills, you'll take on a quest 
 which sets all hell loose in the world, dramatically changing how everything looks, forwarding 
 time by two years, and opening the world map up to about one hundred times its previous size, although 
 it will be a while before you have access to all of it. The main storyline of Guild Wars is advanced 
 by missions; big, exhilarating set-pieces which you play online with a party you form before you 
 leave. Missions are the best way to gain experience fast, as you get substantial experience from 
 completing it, plus you get experience on all the enemies you kill, and you get even more experience 
 for completing special bonus objectives in each mission. Missions are incredibly fun and sufficiently 
 challenging, so it's important that you make a group that has complementary characters. The scale 
 of the battles in Guild Wars just keeps getting bigger as you explore bigger and better breathtaking 
 environments, with bigger battles, bigger groups, and better enemies. The most and generally only 
 irritating thing about Guild Wars' missions is that it's sometimes difficult to find a good group, 
 thus impeding your progress in the game.
  
  There are a lot of missions in Guild Wars, but that's not all it has to offer in the form of PvE 
 (Player versus Environment) . There are a ton of quests in Guild Wars, and they're a lot better 
 than the quests in other online games, which are invariably of two different types: the FedEx quest, 
 in which you fetch an item that the character is apparently two lazy to get; and the monster-killing 
 quest, in which you kill a bunch of monsters. This lazy way of doing things clearly didn't interest 
 the tremendously talented guys at ArenaNet, who crafted much more imaginative quests that are on 
 the whole better than most quests in other games. Quests can be found in your neutral cities, but 
 there are also a plethora of other ones scattered around the gameworld as well, and if you want 
 to complete all of them, you'll need to do a considerable amount of exploration. Quests, after 
 missions, are the best way to advance your character, and they're generally also the best way to 
 pick up new skills for your character, particularly in the early game.
  
  Ironically, all this terrific PvE stuff may not be the main attraction of the game for Guild Wars 
 players these days. The game, as the title implies, has a high focus on PvP (Player versus Player) 
 action, and uses a robust system that allows matches that range from four on four to eight on eight 
 guild battles. For people that inexplicably want to skip all the roleplaying and get to the PvP 
 action, Guild Wars allows that option - you can create a level 20 PvP player right from the start 
 that is a potent and very good character, and jump straight into the action. This doesn't seem 
 to be the option ArenaNet wants you to take, though, as the majority of skills are unusable until 
 you unlock them in the roleplaying portion, but the option is there anyway, and even better, there 
 are preset PvP characters that Guild Wars does allow you to pick that have been built by experts 
 of the game and utilize the best abilities.
  
  But what's the PvP actually like? In a word, awesome. The action in PvP is very fast-paced, even 
 more so than the already breakneck pace of the roleplaying portion of the game, but it just serves 
 to make it all the more exhilarating. Teamwork is just as important, or even moreso, than in PvE, 
 and once again, it's smart to pick people that complement each other. The PvP is one of the many 
 aspects that make Guild Wars just that much better than almost everything else, and it's easily 
 not only the best RPG versus action you can find, but some of the best versus multiplayer out there, 
 period.
  
  The graphics in Guild Wars, as has been previously intimated, are absolutely terrific. They look 
 stunning, retain their own look without feeling overdone or too realistic, and will consistently 
 leave you in awe, especially with the beautiful art direction, which makes it so that you'll see 
 a lot of spectacular sights. Best of all, these graphics scale extremely well onto older machines, 
 as I can play it at a glorious 1280 x 960 resolution on high on my fairly outdated computer (by 
 gaming standards) and it looks absolutely incredible. Guild Wars is one of the best looking games 
 of 2005.
  
  Not to undermine the graphics engine, but Guild Wars' other technological achievements are just 
 as stunning, in different ways. Technologically speaking, this game is a wonder, as it boots up 
 and quits nearly instantly, has loading times that go faster than you can count to three, and uses 
 a fantastic streaming technology that allows the Guild Wars guys to send you patches with lightning 
 fast speed. Even better is how often they use it, not only do they send patches out with astonishing 
 frequency with balancing and bugfixing (admirable actions by themselves) , but they send content 
 updates and gameplay updates frequently as well, adding new quests and new gameplay functions. 
 Whether it's the massive Sorrow's Furnace update, or gameplay overhauls such as the dumped attribute 
 refund system or the new ability to warp to cities with teammates (one of the few nitpicks in the 
 launch that has been fixed) . In fact, as the game gets older, it just gets better - the guys at 
 ArenaNet really listen to any criticisms and implement preventing measures, and they're constantly 
 trying to make the game better.
  
  The sound may be the weakest link in the game, but that's not to imply that it's not great. All 
 the skills sound great and the music in particular is gorgeous and memorable. Nevertheless, the 
 sound does take a backseat to the visuals. Helpfully, to lessen the repititon of the same music, 
 the original composer has since released a free downloadable pack of music that apparently doubles 
 the available music content that the game plays, which is a helpful addition once you tire of the 
 game.
  
  Overall, this game is just a stunning and many-layered achievement. It stuns you technologically 
 with terrific graphics, virtually nonexistent loading times, and streaming updates. There's practically 
 always new content and new gameplay updates coming in to make the game even better. The game is 
 limitlessly replayable due to all the variations not only with secondary professions but within 
 each professions, making all your characters distinct and different. Best of all, the gameplay 
 is just an absolute blast. Guild Wars is one of the best games of 2005, and it's a game that with 
 it's lack of monthly fees, and terrific cooperative and versus play, can appeal to practically 
 anybody, and is a game that will continue to be played for a very, very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinjennison
Rating: 9.2
Date: Sep 17, 2005 9:45 pm PT
Review:  This game offers what all other MMORPG games offer and as usual has its ups and downs. Guild wars, 
 however, has very few downs and the "downsides" are all beneficial! I will explain... 
  
  The "downsides" to this game are the lack of an auction house for players, the fact that the questing 
 world is instances, the limited amount of itemization availiable, and the fact that you can only 
 have 8 skills equipped all at once. However, all of the "downs" I just listed are implemented for 
 good reason and are a part of the reason the guild wars MMORPG formula is the best currently availiable. 
 
  
  The questing world is instanced so you no longer have to wait for bosses to spawn, wait for someone 
 else to finish an escort quest, wait for items to come back etc. You, and whoever you group or 
 party with get to quest uninterrupted and unfrustrated by all the old MMORPG problems which are 
 still apparent even in the better MMO's like WoW.
  
  Itemization is limited and quite heavily supplied by NPC's (Like you can actually get good items/armor 
 from NPC's!) which I think is great because I no longer have to stand around and advertise to try 
 and sell or buy things, or wait and hope an auction house item goes through and then have the AH 
 fees deducted, or whatever the system may be. Auction houses in MMORPG's also tend to be total 
 lag-points for the game and are just plain annoying. Thanks to the guild wars itemization system, 
 I don't have to be heavily dependent on others to get the things I want, I can pretty much get 
 anything by myself without too much trouble.
  
  Only being able to have 8 skills EQUIPPED I think is probably the coolest thing about Guild wars. 
 It makes it so even if 50'000 people were the same class combo, they could all, and most likely 
 would all, have completely different combinations of skills availiable to them in battle. You can 
 have well over a hundred skills for any character so the options are practically endless and the 
 skills you pick really define your skill and strategy in the PvP portion of the game.
  
  The graphics are the best I've seen in an MMORPG so far, it is simply a gorgeous and HUGE world. 
 The sound effects are nothing special, but well done, the music is definately what raises the bar 
 in the sound category, some awesome, prfectly appropriate orchestral music and you can even get 
 more online like what came with the last big patch update. That last update recently added a huge 
 amount of content to the game and all brings back to the point that REALLY seperates this game 
 from others in it's genre.
  
  NO MONTHLY FEE
  
  Praise NCsoft and ArenaNet, and hope they set a precedent. An awesome MMORPG with absolutely no 
 monthly fees, and they are still adding content at no cost to us. If you end up picking this game 
 up, you won't be dissapointed. Just be really careful when scratching the stupid CD'key it comes 
 with cuz I scratched one of mine right off and had to return it. Alternatively you can buy it online, 
 but then you get no manual or CD and have to DL it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trevor_25
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 16, 2005 1:11 am PT
Review:  So if you are like me, you love RPG's. You also have previously played an MMORPG. You were likewise 
 consumed by this MMORPG. You spent every waking hour nearly playing this game instead of living 
 your real life. You managed to stop playing and resume your regular life, at least whats left of 
 it. So now you are very hesitant to get back into any MMORPG. Well, thank God for Guild Wars. It 
 offers up the simple pleasures of MMORPG's without the time consuming need for leveling your characters 
 non stop just to get into that next dungeon or level.
  
  First, Guild Wars offers up the best aspects of MMORPG's without all of the time consuming "work". 
 You still get to spend time socializing in game in any of the game's numerous towns and outposts. 
 Each character is customizable with different professions, skill choices, weapons and armor, and 
 even personal physical look. The game also offers up intense fighting action, interesting quests 
 of different size and scope and an overall story that keeps you coming back for more.
  
  The key to the success of this game lies in the fact that you can play it like a MMORPG with as 
 much community participation as possible or as little. If you log on and dont feel like finding 
 a group of fellow live adventurers, grab a party of the NPC's stationed in every town and lead 
 them into the wilderness. You can also join a guild of friends and enjoy the social aspect of MMORPG's 
 that make them so fun and addictive. Or somewhere in the middle lies the perfect balance of one 
 or two friends and several NPC's for back up. Anyway you play, its fun.
  
  As you progress through the game leveling you character is simple and easy. Basically each level 
 in the game is set up to cater to you as you gain XP. After you have earned enough XP the game 
 prods you onto the next area, but offering less and less XP for each kill. Its simple yet effective 
 and keeps you from the mindless wandering and wasting techniques of other MMORPG's. So you get 
 a challenging experience from the first time you step into a new area until you are ready to move 
 on.
  
  Customizing your character has and always will be a key feature of RPG's. Guild Wars does a nice 
 job of allowing good diversity of physical appearances and skill sets. You get to choose a primary 
 and secondary profession and specializing even further within those professions by focusing on 
 certain attributes more than others. This makes adventuring with other live characters a fun experience 
 as parties can feature many different types of skills to offer. You can buy and find dye for your 
 armor and weapons. You can buy runes to apply skill boosts to your armor as well. The spell system 
 is toned down considerably, which is good for anyone not wishing to spend hours trying to find 
 the right mix of components in order to cast certain spells. However, there are many magical effects, 
 attacks and incantations to go around. Find items and weapons to further increase your skills and 
 powers. Earn skill points in order to purchase special attacks and magic to blow away your enemies. 
 How you level your character is up to you and the diversity of these options make the game replayable.
 
  
  One of my and many gamers biggest complaints about MMORPG's is having to deal with campers and 
 spawn points where to many people are congregated for rare items or XP boons. You dont have to 
 worry about this in Guild Wars. Each time you leave a town or outpost you and your party are all 
 alone. Well except for all of the monsters that are trying to each your lunch. This makes the game 
 seem like its catered to you, while still being a community game.
  
  The one problem with the game that I have experienced is the terrible AI of your NPC characters. 
 For some reason they all attack the enemy you are attacking even though they themselves are getting 
 hammered by another enemy. One improvement I would recommend would be to allow the NPC's to be 
 controllable. If you could direct them during fights it would make the fights more enjoyable for 
 those who choose not to take live characters with them.
  
  When all is said and done this game is a great middle ground between completely single player RPG's 
 and MMORPG's. While not offering as deep gameplay and online social options as regular MMORPG's, 
 the game still provides a wonderful environment to share gaming experience within. A definite must 
 be for any RPG fan, whether experienced in MMORPG or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdn_bacon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 10, 2005 3:06 am PT
Review:  Being a former World of Warcraft player, the initial switch to Guild Wars was a little akward. 
 The basic pricipals are the same : get quest, kill monsters, loot, level up, repeat. Guild Wars 
 puts a different twist on it though.
  
  Guild Wars was made as a sort of hybrid MMORPG. When you are in a main town all the other players 
 on the server can interact, trade items, form parties, and my favorite, dance. Once outside the 
 town, Guild Wars puts a spin on things and guves you your own world for you and your party to explore. 
 What does this all mean? Well first of all there is no waiting around in line to finish a quest 
 or defeat a boss. Second, enemies don't respawn. You can actually clear out a level and feel like 
 you achieved something. A very cool idea! This also allows you to do more than just kill a certain 
 number of a certain type of creature. Sure there could be the odd one of those, but there are missions 
 where you have to protect someone while they complete a task, or clear out a dugeon or cave. You 
 will notice this right of the bat, ad it is a good thing.
  
  There are levels in the game where you will require assistance, this may be in the form of other 
 players, or the old favorite of the loaner, the hired henchman. You will not be able to get through 
 this game on your own.
  
  The graphics for GW are great. Since the only place where they may be 30 or so people around are 
 the towns, there is no issue of lag durring your missions. This also gave the GW team the chance 
 to beef up the graphics of areas outside of town. 
  
  The only thing that kinda bugs me is the sound. The soundtrack to me is a little annoying, but 
 not a big deal, just turn up the old CD player, and problem solved.
  
  The controls are pretty generic and easy to do. The interface is good adn you have the ability 
 to customize it to your liking.
  
  The is a whole world of clan battles and PvP that I didnt get into since I haven't experienced 
 any of it for myself yet. Guild Wars is a great option for the people who don't want to pay to 
 play every month, and for those of you like me who are just looking for something slightly different 
 from the norm of MMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsmone
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 9, 2005 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars takes a step away from the recent MMORPG releases. A step in the right direction. It 
 elminates the need for exteme balancing and alllows players to enjoy the game. It seems to be centered 
 around Player Vs. Player and does an excellent job of balancing classes. Even though its made for 
 PvP it has an excellent story mission arc. It makes you feel like your part of a huge conflict 
 and what you do is changing the world.
  
  The combat is fast paced and allot of fun. Gaining levels and power comes with completeing missions. 
 Characters will unlock new skills in missions. Later they can even "capture" skills from enemy 
 bosses. Before leaving on a mission/quest you choose which skills to take with you. Each quest 
 is slightly different and each skills you choose to take with you truly make a difference. Smart 
 players will enjoy maxing out their best skills and finding strategy in combinations. Overall the 
 game play is rather simple. The instance combat/quest areas ensure you can better handle in a group 
 setting without interrptions from non-grouped players. This elminates camping, ninja-looting and 
 general player to player conflicts. 
  You can hop from one server to another while in town. So anyone that plays Guild Wars can play 
 with anyone else! You can create 4 characters, build so many combinations of skills and abilites 
 it seems endless. 
  The crafting system is fairly simple. You find an item and use a salvage kit on it and make it 
 into components. Certain armors and weapons can be made from an NPC using gold and components. 
 Each area is balanced well with what you can craft. 
  When you complete a mission, find an item, gain a skill it unlocks them on your PvP character. 
 This character is seperate from Story Mode characters. So pretty much everyone has played the story 
 mode to unlock these special items. 
  There are many arenas set up through the game in which you can team up and fight other players 
 for fun. One exsisting issue is high level characters can "run" low level characters to high level 
 areas to gain the "best" armor and skills. This is a huge problem when your playing the way the 
 game is intended. Its no fun to be beat down by someone who was ran to a high level area. Their 
 skills will overpower you quickly and armor/weapons are simply out of balance. Near level 20 its 
 not so much of an issue. 
  Grouping can be difficult sometimes. Finding the right people for a mission. There are only a few 
 missions I personally needed other players to help me with. For the most part you can survive with 
 using NPC henchmen. I still find it amazing that they are actually very functional. 
  Guild Wars feels like a solo game but has the great grouping qualities of a excellent online game. 
 Good players will play their role correctly and its very noticable. Its a game that can be easily 
 played causally. No need to feel rushed or underpowered. The competition exsists in PvP not in 
 the story based missions. 
  The best feature of all is NO ONLINE SUBSCRIPTION FEE! They do add new content and an expansion 
 is being made. 
  The game loads extremely fast. Even with 15 minutes of play I can get some loot and maybe even 
 a little experience. 
  You can travel from city to city instantly. No need to waste time running to a place you have already 
 been too. This is great for making the games overall pace go fast. 
  The graphics are beautiful. Its an amazing look for online game. 
  If you enjoy fantasy games, 
 Player Vs. Player action, story driven plots, character development you will love Guild Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skull_kid2000
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 7, 2005 9:49 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is one of the greatest MMORPG games ever. It takes the basic model most other similar 
 games adhere to, and re-writes it to make it more entertaining for the player. Guild Wars takes 
 place in the enormous world of Tyria. You start as a hero in the employment of the nation of Ascalon. 
 When you begin, you can select your primary profession. The options are what you come to expect 
 from RPGs: Warrior, Elementalist, Ranger, Necromancer, Monk, and Mesmer. Each of these classes 
 has their own strengths and weaknesses, which is why taking a secondary profession is so important. 
 Guild Wars allows you to take a secondary profession so that you can master the skills of two different 
 types of characters simultaneously. After a few tutorial lessons and easy quests, Ascalon is invaded 
 by a race called the Charr. Afterwards, the game really begins. Guild Wars focuses on party-based 
 combat. Before you leave the safety of the numerous cities and outposts, you must first recruit 
 a party of either human players, or computer controlled henchmen. Guild Wars is real easy for newcomers. 
 Leveling up and making money in the game are both incredibly simple. Users can gain experience 
 and gold extremely quickly compared to other games in the genre. The best way to earn money, experience, 
 and to explore the world is simply to do quests. Different characters around the world give you 
 different tasks to perform. Some of these quests are simple, but others are much more complex. 
 Some will require you to travel with a co-ordinated group of human players in order to succeed. 
 Guild Wars has a unique system. When you are in cities or outposts, you see all the other players 
 in that "district". When you leave a city, you and your party are alone. Your party gets its own 
 private version of the map so that other players cannot interfere with your questing. The graphics 
 in the game are great. They can be set to the highest, or lowest settings and still look incredible. 
 They will also run with older graphics cards like the Geforce2. The sound in the game is good as 
 well. In different areas, there is different orchestral music playing the background. This music 
 does become repetitive however, and most of the characters lack voiceover. While it would have 
 been great to see all the NPCs that were involved with quests to have some sort of voiceover, but 
 the voiceover for the main characters in the game are still great. You will get these in-game cutscenes 
 after your finish a co-operative mission with other players. One of the best features of Guild 
 Wars is one that completely separates it from the rest of the MMORPG genre - Guild Wars is free. 
 That's not to say you can download it or just walk out of the store. You still have to pay for 
 the game, but after you purchase it, there are no subscription fees which have been associated 
 with this type of gaming. Guild Wars is an amazing game which is certainly to keep players coming 
 back for more and provide hundreds of hours of entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SaMuRaI_Slice
Rating: 7.8
Date: Sep 7, 2005 3:51 pm PT
Review:  When you first start up Guild Wars, you see lush enviroments, your character looks incredblie and 
 the lighting is fantastic. As you walk up to Town Crier to see your first mission you see people 
 talking to each other, making jokes and dancing. Then you go outside of town, and it's silent... 
 Why? Because for some reason they decided that it's only MASSIVELY Multiplayer when your not doing 
 anything in towns.
  
  That's right, the only way you can have another Human person next to you outside of towns is to 
 get one at town, but for the first segment of the game you can only have 1 other person with you, 
 which is just stupid. Although in the first part of the world it's not that bad most of the enemies 
 are relavtivly easy (Although in groups they can own you) which made me happy cause I know most 
 MMORPGs are death defining hard. So I started doing quests and what not it was a lot of fun dispite 
 the fact that I was doing it all by myself. After that I started trying to help newcomers, but 
 they were all afk the entire time which is what a lot of the "Humans" are doing, just sitting around 
 not doing anything.
  
  I got to the turning point of the game where you go to the part when the world goes apoclypase 
 like (I don't care if I gave that away, it's nto a gripping storyplot anyway) this is where everything 
 goes downhill. You can now have 4 people in your party (Including yourself) whenever you go outside, 
 and the feel of the game... dies. Since everyone is just close to dying there's no side quests 
 to do that are easy like "Help me get my farm from the wolves!" instead it's "Travel across the 
 world and get something, then get my daughter on the otherside of the world and bring her back 
 here without dying" which is jsut annoying. Not to mention the impossible creatures that walk around. 
 I left the first world at level 8 (Out of 20) but I still was getting owned by enemies. Espically 
 the Char. Char are the arch nemisis of the humans, they are like really big lions that for some 
 reason can kill you within seconds and attack faster then a humming bird flaps its wings. All the 
 enemies are like that, just one can cut your health in half, and almost ALL the time are in groups 
 of 3 or more. 
  
  This is where it really hurts to know there's not 100 allies in the battlefield, just you, and 
 3 other people (Which can be computer controlled and aren't really that great, because you can't 
 talk to them or anything) . At this point of the game I restarted a new character to play through 
 the old world and grow 2 levels higher, but I was still getting owned by enemies. I try playing 
 the other game to see if it gets any better, but all the quests require you to run across the huge 
 world and it's just god damn annoying. I stopped playing the game I tried playing PvP mode but 
 it's just boring, it's not as great as people say it is. Your team either owns the other team or 
 your team gets own, there's no "CLOSE MATCH!!".
  
  Also the death system in the game, is the most retarded system I have ever seen in a game. After 
 your party dies you respawn to the cloest Respawn point and with in these huge worlds is normally 
 miles away which is a great way to waste time and get you annoyed. Also per death you lose 5% (Or 
 more) % of health the only way to get it back is to fight more impossible enemies. WHAT THE HELL?! 
 If you die you lose more % of health making it harder and harder for you to kill enemies, I hate 
 this system more then anything else. 
  
  One of the few good things about the game is the loading times, there's barley any. The first time 
 you start the game there's a 1 minute long one, but the rest of them are 1-10 seconds long which 
 is great. 
  
  Conclusion: If you like incredblie hard games that like to ruin a great feel of a community then 
 get this game. If you don't like games that are impossible and you can't see other allies on the 
 battlefield and RPGs based on CTF and Deathmatch then don't get this game. This is a $40 dollar 
 waste I should've gotten another game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: obamartins
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 7, 2005 1:19 pm PT
Review:  This game was created with PvP in mind. However, the game also has an excellent storyline for players 
 who are not into PVP or just want to develop their characters themselves instead of making a pre-made 
 PvP character.
  
  The graphics in this game are fabulous. The bloom was a nice feature and really helps in making 
 your jaw drop in certain places, especially the beaches. The game plays really well even on lower-end 
 computers. There might be some slowdown when there are lots of players on your screen. Graphics 
 aren't a thing to worry about in this game.
  
  The gameplay is well-balanced and well put into the game. You can make parties and start co-operative 
 missions in the game. The only letdown is on the later quests require you to have a party because 
 if you go solo you'll find it impossible to beat. However, this encourages teamwork. When you go 
 outside of towns you and your group will be in your own seperate world. This is an advantage since 
 there will be no more item stealing. The game has lots of skills to choose from. You can carry 
 8 skills outside town. This makes room for careful planning and thinking.
  
  The sound in this game is gorgeous, made by a great composer. There is even a soundtrack available 
 for purchase. The sound is well implemented and fits the scenery and situation well. The battle 
 sounds are also pretty good.
  
  Guild Wars isn't your typical "Hack and Slash" RPG. The level cap is 20 (which can take you a long 
 time) . This game is pretty well-balanced in that you don't need a higher level than your opponent 
 to win, but strategy and correct use of skills, not to mention teamwork. The storyline is pretty 
 long and should keep you entertained for quite a while. The trading and economy system is easy 
 to use and is well-implemented. There are plenty of monsters and bosses, also some hard ones for 
 the people who want a challenge. There are quite a lot of weapons and items in the game, some rare 
 and some common ones. You can also dye your equipment or sell the dyes to players for gold.
  
  This game is the best RPG I have ever come across. This is a must buy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Francois42
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 7, 2005 5:54 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars comes to us with an excellent pedigree, having been designed and developed by ex-Blizzard 
 programmers who created the still-addictive Diablo II to computers around the world. And while 
 Guild Wars provides a mixed bag of experiences, what is consistent throughout is that its an incredibly 
 fun and addictive gaming experience.
  
  Nominally, the game is a Massively-Multiplayer Online RolePlaying Game (MMORPG) , but it breaks 
 the mold in seemingly every way. Instead of a traditional MMORPG, in which the entire world is 
 populated by the population of players, Guild Wars only allows interaction within the town zones. 
 Once you discover a town zone, you can freely teleport between those zones, allowing players to 
 leap across the world without having to resort to time-consuming journeys or expensive transports. 
 And there are no crafting skills that become the heart of MMORPG play. Your character is focused 
 on combat, and combat alone.
  
  Leaving a town zone, however, is when the differences from a traditional MMORPG become apparent. 
 Each party, formed in town, receives an instanced version of the game world, with their own copy 
 of the adventure area, monsters, and treasure drops. The instanced gaming zones provide for a double-edged 
 sword, really. On the plus side, it eliminates practices such as kill-stealing, quest lines, griefing, 
 player killing, and zerging, all of plague traditional MMORPGs. On the minus side, however, it 
 means you can never meet up with a party in the wilderness, and if your internet connection fails 
 mid-adventure, you cant rejoin your party.
  
  The other advantage that Guild Wars has over a traditional MMORPG is the lack of monthly fee. Your 
 initial game purchase allows unlimited online play with up to four characters. In addition to the 
 fee-free play, Guild Wars has been updated frequently through a unique streaming technology, which 
 allows game updates to be applied without the need to download and install a patch. Since its release, 
 item quality has been tweaked, skills have been updated and balanced, and other incremental improvements 
 have been made. And as I write this, the free Sorrows Furnace update is due out soon, which 
 promises new adventure areas, opponents, items, and more. The sheer volume of updates that are 
 being provided for a game without a monthly fee is impressive, rewarding players with balanced 
 and new content.
  
  The graphics present in the game are quite impressive, both in their graphical polish and the extent 
 to which they support the game. Characters and enemies are rendered with acumen, allowing easy 
 identification and clean animations that bring the environments to life. On top of that, skills 
 and attacks have unique animations and lighting effects. This not only provides a few more graphical 
 touches to impress players, but also has a distinct effect on gameplay, as you can easily identify 
 which skill is being used by an enemy, and perhaps interrupt that action. With the proper hardware, 
 boss enemies feature a menacing glow effect, so you know who to avoid if youre weak.
  
  Equally impressive about the games graphics engine is the range of machines on which itll run. 
 While lower-end machines wont get all the graphical bells and whistles, and wont be able to run 
 the game smoothly at a high resolution, they will still run the game. This means that players on 
 a budget, once again tying into the lack of a monthly fee, wont have to spend hundreds of dollars 
 on their computer systems in order to join the world of Guild Wars.
  
  The music featured in the game is good for the most part, composed by Jeremy Soule. The songs are 
 all out of the same vein, and can get a bit repetitive over time, but do provide a variety of themes 
 from majestic crescendos to mysterious chords. The game has also been developed in conjunction 
 with DirectSong, a game music expansion service, through which players can purchase and download 
 new music that is not only playable on your favorite media player, but also integrates into the 
 game. Its a clever idea that can help bring new music to the game.
  
  But great graphics and music mean nothing without a fantastic game to drive them. Here, there are 
 two distinct sides to the coin. The Player vs. Environment game (PvE) follows your character through 
 a storyline involving the fall of your home kingdom and your characters role in a world-spanning 
 adventure. Youll be able to select two of the six professions, one of which is your primary profession, 
 gaining a unique attribute, and one of which is a secondary profession. This provides for a wide 
 variety of gaming options through the combination of professions, and the selection of which attributes 
 to put points towards. For example, you could create a Ranger/Elementalist, excelling at dealing 
 damage from range. Or you could create a Necromancer/Warrior, surrounding yourself with minions 
 and taking the fight to your opponents in melee combat. Or a Monk/Mesmer, who heals fellow party 
 members and steals energy to fuel her healing from enemies.
  
  The PvE game features a myriad of quests, as well as special Cooperative Missions that advance 
 the storyline through objectives. While most of the quests can be accomplished, with varying degrees 
 of difficulty, with any group of players, the Missions tend to be slightly more difficult. In order 
 to have a reasonable chance of success with the missions, youll need a well-balanced team of characters. 
 While this does provide for quite a bit of strategy when it comes to preparation, it also means 
 it can be hard to find good groups unless you are part of a good circle of friends or guild.
  
  One thing that plagued the developers previous outing, Diablo II, was item stealing. Monster 
 drops were simply free-for-alls, which was a plague for ranged attackers, as the melee attackers 
 could simply scarf up all the loot before anyone else could get to it. While some groups overcame 
 this through house rules, the truth was that in unsanctioned online play, the system was badly 
 broken. Guild Wars addresses this by assigning drops to players in the game during the PvE game. 
 By reserving drops for a player, it prevents loot-stealing, and allows the players to continue 
 to focus on playing the game, rather than grabbing items. Gold drops are split equally between 
 all party members. Its a system that works well, allowing everyone from healers to casters to 
 melee tanks to have a fair shake at getting good loot.
  
  Guild Wars also features a robust Player vs. Player (PvP) game. Normally, Player Killing is disallowed, 
 until you enter one of the many arenas featured in the game. Depending on the arena, you could 
 be a part of a random four-person team, or a prearranged team. There is also a tournament that 
 provides a wide variety of match types for eight-person teams, as well as a Guild vs. Guild (GvG) 
 match that pits you as either the attacker or defender of your Guild Hall. The same principles 
 of character creation apply, and are probably even more important for success against better teams. 
 A balanced team is one that more efficiently protects and deals damage than its opponent. And those 
 are the teams that are usually successful.
  
  PvE characters can be used for PvP play, though anything short of the level 20 maximum level will 
 probably fail miserably in the more advanced arenas. If you dont have the time or the inclination 
 to play through the PvE game, you can also create a level 20 PvP-only character. These characters 
 can unlock skills and items by spending Faction that is earned in PvP combat, allowing PvP characters 
 to advance in a similar manner as PvE characters.
  
  Skills are the core of any character in Guild Wars, be it PvP or PvE. Skills are earned in PvE 
 by finishing quests or purchasing them from a trainer, and are unlocked in PvP by earning that 
 skill in PvP or purchasing it with earned Faction. Each character can only change their skills 
 in town, and can only equip 8 skills at a time. Because of this limitation, it is very difficult 
 for a single character to become a jack-of-all-trades. For example, a warrior might load up on 
 damage dealing and evasion skills, but be devoid of any good healing skills. Likewise, a monk might 
 have great healing spells, but little ability to deal and avoid damage.
  
  The skill system also requires a bit of strategy to effectively use combinations. For example, 
 one of the Elementalists skills deals a set amount of damage to a target, regardless of armor 
 or level, but will remove any negative conditions applied to the target. With a team that depends 
 on those conditions to dispatch enemies, this skill is obviously not a good choice. When combined 
 with the many different possibilities for character professions, the possibilities are nearly endless.
 
  
  Between the combination of characters, and the engaging skill system, Guild Wars turns out to be 
 a highly deep game. The PvE game has a long, engaging storyline, with challenging missions and 
 areas that remain a challenge even after the storyline is finished. This is furthered by the character 
 system, which allows you to respec your characters attributes at any time, making sure that youre 
 never locked into one type of character path. Players are encouraged to try different paths, and 
 are never prevented from doing so within the limitations of the system.
  
  The PvP game is also incredibly fun, because of the ongoing chess match that happens in the arenas. 
 For example, a team that relies on enchantments and hexes would be at a terrible disadvantage against 
 a team that specialized in enchantment and hex removal. Its a constantly-evolving landscape of 
 combat, which keeps things fresh and exciting every time you log into the game.
  
  In closing, while Guild Wars isnt your traditional MMORPG, in many ways, its better. The lack 
 of a monthly fee should appeal to both individuals who simply want to play the PvE storyline, as 
 well as casual players who dont devote weeks on end to gaming to get the most out of a $15 monthly 
 fee. And the excellent skill and character system allows for a great deal of depth in the gameplay, 
 allowing each player to find a character that they enjoy playing without having to invest hours 
 on end to creating new characters. In short, Guild Wars is an incredibly addicting game that almost 
 anyone can enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brotherbraak
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 25, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Sure W. O. W. was a great game but is it worth the 15 bucks a month? Sure it is but you always need 
 another MMO thats free. Thats where Guild Wars comes in. Although it has almost the same fighting 
 engine, it doesn't have that feel that attracted me to W. O. W. The best thing about Guild Wars is 
 that it is free. Later on though, you can buy new worlds and characters. In the new release Factions 
 you will be able to play the Ritualist and Assassin. The game is full of people and it isn't hard 
 to find a run but it can be hard to find a good party and an active guild.
  
  POSITIVE
  +free
  +easy to play
  +immersive lands
  
  NEGATIVE
  -not better than W. O. W.
  -just 
 humans are useable at the beginning setting off good combat between different clans
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: latin_boi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2005 1:10 am PT
Review:  Even though I've yet to play World of Warcraft (and trust me, I will sooner or later) , this has 
 to be my favorite MMO yet. Long have I awaited to play this game, and now I can thanks to a little 
 friend of mine, and I have to say, all those months of waiting finally paid off. No matter who 
 you are, or what kind of games you like, Guild Wars is a masterpiece on almost every level, and 
 should not be missed by RPG fans all over the world. You may recognize the publisher of the game 
 to also be the publisher of other MMO City of Heroes. I'm not going to sit here and compare the 
 two the entire time because Guild Wars would just render every factor in CoH obsolete. First, the 
 graphics. This game has absolutely flawless graphics. Facial details are amazing, animations are 
 fluid and almost lag free, and not to mention character and environment design- they rock. There 
 also is a pretty good level of customization to it; it has a lot more than other MMO's, but not 
 nearly as much as I've heard about World of Warcraft. A cool feature for me is being able to chose 
 color of your equipment by dying it a certain color that you buy. Unfortunately, this gets a little 
 pricey if you're just beginning. Another great thing is the addition of in game cutscenes after 
 certain missions. Never before have I seen this in an MMO, and it certainly pays off: it adds another 
 dimension to the game, and makes you get sucked into the story of the game. Speaking of story, 
 there is more to this game than leveling up and reaching the level cap. Your country has been completely 
 destroyed by various groups of monsters and villains, and it's your job to go out and stop them. 
 It's really basic, but there's a whole lot more story than I've seen in an MMO. The game plays 
 really well, but it does have its flaws. After visiting an area once, loading times are close to 
 nothing, but they are pretty long on a first visit to a place. What I absolutely love about this 
 game is the fact that you can mix and match classes. So, let's say I want to be an elementalist, 
 but I have this huge urge to be a ranger. I can just simply pick one at the beginning (which will 
 determine how your character looks, so best choose the one you like better) , and a few missions 
 later, you get the opportunity to pick the other job. The game does an absolute amazing job at 
 giving you the freedom to balance out, or rely more heavily on certain jobs. Also early in the 
 game, you are introduced to the world of PVP (which is the basis of the game) . You do have the 
 option of making a PVP only character, but that's really meant for advanced players of the game. 
 There is PVP included on the Roleplaying gametype though, and it's a bit more simple. One of the 
 first missions you do sets you up in teams of four to go head on in a battle to the death. This 
 works really well, but it seems really fast paced, especially for an RPG. Other than the PVP, Guild 
 Wars has a ton of co-op quests to do. You literally have thousands of choices because you get a 
 bunch of contacts at the beginning of the game. Overall, Guild Wars plays amazingly well, but it's 
 by far means perfect. The sound of the game is probably my least favorite part about the game; 
 not saying that it's bad though. The music to the game changes a little bit, but it constantly 
 is playing in the background. The overall music composition is actually very good, but it's very 
 monotone too. The sound effects are also a bit out of place here too. There are explosion-like 
 sounds for a bow attack, and some other effects are a little futuristic sounding too. For me, I 
 could mute the game, and still have a perfectly good time playing the game. The game is incredably 
 replayable, especially with the job mixing factor included. Like I said, this is a game that should 
 not be missed no matter who you are. Best of all, there's no monthly fee at all. You just buy the 
 game, install it and start playing. This game is absolutely amazing and you're stupid to overlook 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2005 5:47 pm PT
Review:  "Wow" were the first words i thought when i started up guild wars for the first time. The character 
 graphics looked great and it was easy to make my character. the creation process is like a lot 
 of other MMORPGS (massively multiplayer online role playing game) for instance W. O. W. i soon got 
 into the world with almost no loading time and only a second of freezing. The landscaping looked 
 very good and crisp and looked very welcoming. i looked around for something to do and saw a guy 
 with a exclamation mark above his head. that obviously meant a quest. I got started and got to work. 
 One part that this game lacks is a proper tutorial. they plunk you right in and expect you to fend 
 for yourself. to veteran players of games like this it is not required but for people who are playing 
 a MMORPG for the first time, there could be problems. When you walk out of the town gates for the 
 first time you notice something strange. No one is around. Why? well when adventuring in Guild 
 Wars whenever you leave a town you get your own area where no one but you (and your party) will 
 be. that means no spawn-camping, stealing, etc, any of that stuff. it is a very nice touch and 
 makes playing Guild wars much more enjoyable. When questing in Guild Wars things are the same as 
 most other games. you get a arrow on your screen showing you where to go. Sometimes things can 
 be a bit confusing if you don't know your way around and they tell you to search for this guy in 
 some dungeon or cave and you have no idea where it is. this also ties in to not being able to jump 
 or run up or down steep hills. most of the paths are set and you can't really go exploring because 
 you have to stay on the path. this also makes it exceptionally harder to find someone on the map 
 because it only tells you the direct route to the checkpoint, not the path. in most other multiplayer 
 role playing games you can roam freely and go directly to a place by running through the lake and 
 into a forest. instead in Guild wars you have to take some long round about path. Luckily this 
 doesn't really hinder the game to much because it won't really take that long to figure out where 
 to go. In guild wars it's not about hundreds of hours grinding XP from monsters but about having 
 fun and doing quests and playing in PVP. for some people grinding may be a way of life but in Guild 
 Wars it is almost erased entirely. I found this sort of strange at first but as i have got used 
 to it I don't mind anymore not going out to kill hordes of monsters.
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  There are many things to do in guild wars and many possibilities. there aren't too many bugs. I 
 found there are a few places for improvements but over all the game is awesome. and lots of fun
 
  
  Graphics 9/10 
  edges are crisp, lighting is good, and there are many colours used. when you are adventuring it 
 looks a lot like a fantasy setting and everything graphically comes together very well.
  
  Sound 9/10 
  there is some repetition in the music but it all sounds good and delivers a fantasy 
 kind of melody with bird twitters and all the combat noises. There is nothing really there to criticize 
 in ways of sound.
  
  Value 9/10
  
  Reviewer's Tilt 9/10
  
  Overall this game is a great game for any RPG lovers or MMORPG lovers. it delivers a satisfying 
 experience and with the no monthly fees this game is pretty much a must have.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joemania
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2005 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is an amazing MMO. With a in depth storyline and many features. One of these amazing 
 features is the games is constantly updated by arenanet. So, even if you beat the game you can 
 try new quests. Another good feature is the PvP (player versus player) where guilds can fight, there 
 is also a constant tournement for the Hall of Heros. In PvP you can use PvP only characters that 
 are only used in guild battles and tournements, and you can also use your normal role-playing character. 
 (if you've gotten far enough) . One downside to the game though is it is sometimes hard to form 
 a party to go on missions, while they do supply henchmen (CPU players to help) they just dont get 
 the job done. All in all i think guild wars is a great MMO and I love the fact that it is free 
 online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cesiao
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 14, 2005 10:28 pm PT
Review:  The nemesis of World of Warcraft is here, but without extra fees. Awaited by many, though it was believed 
 that WoW would crash it into the ground, it turned out great actually.
  
  The game begins when the king summons hero's to his service, because his kingdom is threatened by 
 the growing amount of monsters. Sadly, the town falls, but your quest doesn't end there. You proceed 
 on to destroy the enemy threat and bring back peace to the kingdom. And be known as the greatest 
 hero ever.
  
  This game scores of from the very beginning, cause this game actually does have a storyline, unlike 
 WoW it's much more complex, as the game has many cutscenes as you go through missions and so forth.
 
  
  The graphics is pretty impressive just by the fact that it doesn't take much of your computer to 
 run, high quality. The details, and shading of the game, is very impressive, and detailed, giving the 
 game great depth in detail.
  
  The soundtrack is pretty much that of a standard adventure RPG, soothing & calm music. There's not 
 too much to say about it, but it's pretty harmonic and get's the job done.
  
  Unlike most MMORPG's this game does not have a monthly or annual fee. Which should make the game 
 even more attractive, furthermore it's co-opperative gameplay is just great, and allows for brilliant 
 teamwork. Along with the cutscenes, which almost makes you think you're playing a "Story mode" this 
 is really a game worth picking up.
  
  Should you choose WoW or GW? Well, it's basically a matter of personal taste. I suggest you test 
 and play both before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redtiger676
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 21, 2005 12:49 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is one of my favorite MMO's. It's lasted me a long time, but it gets kind of old after 
 a while.
  Guild Wars looks great, even for an MMO. It runs pretty good, even on a low-end machine, but some 
 of the larger cities produce slow framerates, even with above-average PC's.
  The music of Guild Wars is also great. Though the sounds (hacking, spells, etc.) , are a little 
 tedious at times, you can get used to them.
  This game has lasted me 200 or more hours, and now it's lost steam. It's a great game to play even 
 in short bursts, but it won't last you all too long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VanGoghs_Ear
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 19, 2005 8:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good. As someone who doesn't want to get involved in the world of MMORPG, I 
 think this game is great. I know a lot of you out there are like me. You don't want to play a game 
 like WoW or EQ2 because either you don't want to subscribe to a monthly fee, you don't have the 
 time, you're just not interested in the idea of it, or you don't have the desire to get hooked 
 or addicted to it. For many of these reasons, I won't play an MMORPG. Well this game adds a few 
 of those elements but does not force them upon you.
  
  The game offers the chance to get aquainted to the community in towns, but when you quest, you 
 leave all that behind. But, you can quest with up to 3 other online players which makes the game 
 that much more interesting. Don't be shy, ask around, many people are willing to help out or need 
 to do the same quest as you. But if you don't want to do that, you don't have to, you can take 
 NPC with you that are designed to help you. 
  
  I think the game is an above average RPG for the PC without the addition of other online questers, 
 but the addition of them to the game makes it that much better. I think the idea of how it all 
 fits together is well implimented into the single player elements of the game. Otherwise the game 
 is just a fairly standard action RPG, albeit well done, but still standard.
  
  The PvsP stuff is also really fun. I've only done it a couple of times, but I look forward to some 
 more once I feel a little more established and familiar with the entire game.
  
  The things that disappoint me, the cinematics. After playing a game like KotOR, I expect a better 
 story implimented through lots of voice acting and cool interactive cinematics. Another disappointment, 
 not enough way points that I can jump to, to skip some of the monotonous battles with creatures 
 that aren't worth my time. Every time I leave and re-enter an area the monsters I just killed are 
 magically back in their original position.... yay... give me the option to avoid this pointlessness. 
 It would make exploring a lot more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thing_2
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 19, 2005 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a very fun and unique game. Of course the best part of it is it's FREE online play. 
 You can do so much stuff in this game. First off once you make your own character you choose where 
 to put him/her. In PvP or Roleplaying. Roleplaying is just the regular game, doing quests, interacting 
 with other people, trying to be the best. In PvP you make a separate char. to engage and fight 
 other people playing the game. You can do arena fighting, you know like 8 vs. 8 or whatever. There 
 is also The Hall of Heros. You must try and take your team and beat every other team thats against 
 you. If you win you can keep or try to take away the favor of the God's favor (lol) away from another 
 country. Unless of course your country already has it, then you just keep it. Then there is Guild 
 Battle. Where you and your guild just fight another guild. You can mke a guild yourself, but it 
 does cost in game money to make one, with all of the stuff you want with it. There is so much more 
 stuff you can do than what i'm just saying. The map you can explore is gigantic! I mean very very 
 big, you won't be disappointed. You will be very happy with your purchase of Guild Wars.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rudyfan04
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 18, 2005 12:24 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a very fun and unique game. Of course the best part of it is it's FREE online play. 
 You can do so much stuff in this game. First off once you make your own character you choose where 
 to put him/her. In PvP or Roleplaying. Roleplaying is just the regular game, doing quests, interacting 
 with other people, trying to be the best. In PvP you make a separate char. to engage and fight 
 other people playing the game. You can do arena fighting, you know like 8 vs. 8 or whatever. There 
 is also The Hall of Heros. You must try and take your team and beat every other team thats against 
 you. If you win you can keep or try to take away the favor of the God's favor (lol) away from another 
 country. Unless of course your country already has it, then you just keep it. Then there is Guild 
 Battle. Where you and your guild just fight another guild. You can mke a guild yourself, but it 
 does cost in game money to make one, with all of the stuff you want with it. There is so much more 
 stuff you can do than what i'm just saying. The map you can explore is gigantic! I mean very very 
 big, you won't be disappointed. You will be very happy with your purchase of Guild Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ4Goten
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 9, 2005 12:56 am PT
Review:  Am not a big fan of MMORPG, after declining to play FFXII and Warcraft because of the fees I looked 
 towards Guild Wars to relieve my RPG gap in between Final Fantasy's. This game is so good looking 
 for the price and I cant believe I got it for 15. NO monthly fees so you dont have to worry about 
 paying if you wanna take a wee break from playing. 
  The gameplay is sound, no complaints and the battlesystem is as free and uncomplicated as they 
 can possibly make it. The choice of choosing 2 proffestions (Warrior Class, Elementists ect) lets 
 you curious about making another character to try out the ones you didnt pick. The quests and side 
 quests you have to do to go through the map are difficult if you plan on going solo, partys can 
 be assembles from towns or fords before you head out into the map. The only complained here is 
 when you head out to the main map from the towns you dont meet anyone else except from the people 
 in your party. After playing Eve Online religiously recently it is amazing to find a game like 
 this, if you like rpg's in any form then you HAVE to buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schokomann
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 8, 2005 1:39 pm PT
Review:  First of all I will enumerate the negative aspects of a game which result, if you are expecting 
 an Rpg Game like Baldur's gate or KOTOR:
  
  Actually the only "roleplaying" you have in the game is getting from A to B
  fighting a lot of 
 monsters in order to find person or Object C.
  And although this task is easy enough to manage, you also get directed by a green arrow on your 
 minimap. So the roleplaying aspect actually doesnt exist.
  The characters development, which is a main factor in every rpg makes a
  nice approach, letting 
 you skill on attributes (up to 5) which contain skill (approximately 30 each) , which automatically 
 improve with the lvl of there attribute.
  Unfortunately the maximum lvl of your character is 20 which is reached after half the campaign. (which 
 takes app.100 hours) .
  Furthermore You can only choose from one race, which is not very typical for an rpg making 
  Characters 
 of the same class, nearly look the same way which contributes to an artificial feeling in the game. Ok 
 it has the main flaws of all mmorpgs but it also doesnt have the "MASSIVENESS MULTIPLAYER" on big 
 servers. Here u can build a party for quests, of up to 8 people (how massive) , to get loaded into a 
 seperate sector in the game.
  So you cant meet other players in the environment. That is what many games 
  offer without a fee, it 
 is a normal multiplayer mode, where you are connected to a few 
  other pcs, but it is No Massiveness Multiplayer. All these factors contribute to an artificial 
 
  feeling in the game.
  So if You are A fan of rpgs stay away from this title (and all other mmorpgs (but especially this 
 title ;) ) ) .
  
  But if you are a passionated pvp Player having some friends, who also play it,
  you will actually 
 love this game, which is highly addictive in its battle and PVP system.
  First of all you have 6 different classes, you can choose from. And each Character has a primary 
 and a secondary class. so there are 30 possible combinations, allowing a pool
  of 150 different spells each. So there is a high variaty in the case of character development. In 
 many games this kind of variaty leads to imbalance, but
  somehow, Arenanet managed to Create a well balanced system perfectly accustomed to pvp purposes. An 
 Another big plus are the stunning Environmental graphics, which
  perfectly fit to the fantastic world of guildwars and set new references in the genre, making 
 
  the Battles and the over 100 hours of plot (which contains unexpected ) a lot more fun to play.
 
  All in all you can say ,that Arenanet accomplished their aim to create a well balanced 
  online game set in a fantasy world and focused mainly on pvp.
  It is a must have for all people 
 who dont expect an rpg game, but 
  a motivating, and addictive pvp game. (In this case you can trust
  the name of the game and the 
 developers name, indicating the aims and attitude of the game ) .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jvojan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 4, 2005 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars, a MMORPG like no other as I hope you will be able to learn for yourself after reading 
 this review and deciding to get it for yourself. I will begin with a few disclaimers to warn you: 
 I am not much of an online gamer. Ive played this and Rose Online and that is all when it comes 
 to online gaming. Because of this, I am still new to the whole realm of the MMORPG. Finally, though 
 GW has a fully realized pvp and gvg (guild versus guild) modes, at the time of the writing of this 
 review, I havent played enough of PvP or any GvG in order to form opinions on how well they work 
 and any issues therein. This review is only regarding the PvE mode that includes the main story 
 and all quests. If youre looking for information on PvP, you wont find it here.
  
  Guild Wars starts out as the people of Ascalon are enjoying their freedom after the Charr, a race 
 of violent animals that resemble wolverines and other creatures mixed together, have been pushed 
 back. After some time, the Charr return with a devastating attack on Ascalon. Fire rains from the 
 skies above, set by Charr to decimate the kingdom of Ascalon. The tragedy becomes known as the 
 Searing and it leaves Ascalons lands burnt, scarred and forever ruined. Your character starts 
 out in Pre-Searing Ascalon and will then lead to post-Searing Ascalon, west through the Shiverpeak 
 mountains and further west to the jungles and kingdom and Kryta.
  
  Many MMORPGs are criticized for either not having a well thought out plot or having no plot at 
 all. Like in many other cases, Guild Wars changes that. The PvE aspect revolves around storytelling 
 instead of just battling countless enemies with no focus or seeming purpose. The story is told 
 in a rather brilliant way by Arenanet. Each section of the story is told via cutscenes during missions. 
 Each mission in the game revolves around finishing specific objectives in order to advance the 
 story and to unlock the next mission in the story. The mission objectives are what youd expect 
 from most types of RPGs. Escort someone to a location and keep them alive, clear out enemies to 
 allow others to move in, rescue imprisoned people, protect an area under siege. These kinds of 
 objectives will be familiar to most RPG gamers but there are others as well that manage to be original. 
 The plot itself is well thought out and twists and turns during the game. Though you start out 
 dealing with the Charr, youll quickly meet up with the dwarves who have their own war going on 
 against a splinter group of dwarves known as the Stone Summit. From there you head to the jungles 
 and out to the desert where you will need to ascend in order to unlock the later missions in the 
 game. The changing enemy sets are a welcome sight as the story advances. In this way, throughout 
 the story youre never quite sure who is an enemy. Some allies can quickly turn to foes, some groups 
 can seem like enemies and turn out to be friends. This manages to keep the story flowing well since 
 youre always looking forward to what the next plot revelation will be. One extra thing that is 
 included in every single mission, is the bonus objective. Generally these bonuses are obtained 
 by NPCs and they reward you an additional 1000 EXP for completing the objective. The catch is, 
 in most cases the bonus makes the mission more challenging. This challenge adds some depth to the 
 missions when they are already full of action. Though one can go through the game having no bonuses 
 completed.
  
  Outside of missions, there are other things to do in the game that will keep you addicted for many 
 hours on end. There are quests to complete that run the gamut of simple fetch quests, to simply 
 using new skills to complete a quest, to long, well developed quests that will test your skills 
 and your abilities to resolve difficult battles or difficult travels to out of the way locations. 
 Most towns and outposts in the game have a few quests that you can do, generally within the vicinity 
 of the town. To add replayability to the game some quests are limited to specific classes. If you 
 have the class as primary or secondary profession, you can accept that quest, otherwise you wont 
 have access to it, but different quests. Class specific quests always award the player with new 
 skills either before or after the quest is completed. The reward system for GW always makes it 
 feel like youre accomplishing something. There are around 150 total skills or so you can obtain 
 between the two classes you have. Most are obtained either through spending a skill point and gold 
 at a skill merchant, or through completing quests. Many quests reward one skill for your primary 
 and secondary job each.
  
  Classes in GW are simple decisions, there are just 6 classes to choose from. The difficulty in 
 choosing primary class comes from deciding what you want to do. Each class has one specfic attribute 
 that you can only used if you take that class as your primary profession. Secondaries do not have 
 access to these skills. If you want yo focus on magic, the obvious choice is Elementalist or Mesmer, 
 both of which have access to unique primary job skills that aid in the use of magic. Warriors are 
 designed to be a relatively poor choice as secondary job it would seem since you lose out on the 
 valuable Strength unique attribute of Warrior primaries. Though there are some obvious advantages 
 in choosing one class over another as primary, GW is designed to be as balanced as possible. Though 
 there are some preferred combinations, there really arent bad combinations that you can choose, 
 some just add more challenge to the game and some make it easier. Another important thing about 
 primary class is that it not only determines what armour you can equip and the total armour class 
 you can eventually obtain, it also determines how much energy (GWs MP system used to cast most 
 spells and skills) you start with as well as how fast your energy recovers. Class choices arent 
 the only choices you need to make when it comes to attributes and your role in parties and missions. 
 You get a limited number of attribute points during the game that you can spend on any of the attributes 
 that represent your two classes. The key to success is knowing what skills you prefer to use in 
 battle, then strengthen the attribute that effects those skills. If at some point you find new 
 skills that you prefer or have seen that previous skills/strategies are no longer effective, all 
 is not lost. You can simply spend refund points to gain attribute points back and you are then 
 free to move those attribute points to other specialties.
  
  As I mentioned earlier, there are around 150 skills total between your two classes. This seems 
 like plenty but it also leads to what is the most difficult decision during the game. Which skills 
 to bring with you on missions and quests. Once you leave an outpost, town or mission warm up area, 
 you cant change which skills you have equipped. Some skills that work extremely well in one area 
 or mission may be completely ineffective against enemies in a new area. Because you only have 8 
 slots to use at any time for skills, decisions must be made on what to take and what to leave behind. 
 With so many skills available, its unfortunate that many will likely never be used as you can generally 
 use other skills that are more effective. Each skill is tied to an attribute except for a few rare 
 skills that have no controlling stat like some signets. You will have to decide which skills to 
 carry with you at all times and which ones to switch up depending on the circumstances of the quest 
 or mission. Another factor is energy cost and recharge time. 
  Each skill, after it has been cast, takes a certain amount of time to recharge before you can use 
 that skill again. Loading up your character with too many skills that take over 30 seconds to recharge 
 can leave you helpless until the skill has recharged so balancing high recharge times with low 
 recharge skills is also an important factor to consider. Elite skills are exactly what the name 
 implies, special skills that are some of the best in the entire game. In order to get an elite 
 skill, you must capture it from a boss that belongs to one of the classes you are in. You can only 
 carry one elite skill at any time so its yet another decision to make with such a limited number 
 of slots available. Hunting bosses for elite skills is something that is challenging and fun to 
 do later on in the game where more bosses carry useful skills to obtain.
  
  Gameplay in GW is well balanced with a steady increase of difficulty as you progress. You can explore 
 most of the map on your own and do not actually need to follow the story in order to get to new 
 towns, outposts and future missions. This free exploration leads to finding new skills earlier 
 on than normal in some cases, as well as adding adventure to the game. Gameplay is simple and easy 
 to use. Click on an enemy, and you start attacking when youre in range. Then you can use any skills 
 you have equipped. You gain a certain amount of EXP based on the the enemys level and your own 
 level. As you gain levels, the same enemy will give you less and less EXP until finally you gain 
 no EXP from that enemy anymore. This can be a good and bad thing. Its good that this forces you 
 to advance through the game since at a certain amount of levels it becomes pointless to stay in 
 that area. However it also means you must fight enemies in certain areas that give no EXP. It would 
 have been nice if Arenanet would have made it so that enemies that dont give you EXP, dont attack 
 you. Though it can be resolved by getting bags and a pouch, inventory space is a major issue early 
 on the in game. This frequently means selling items after missions. There is a storage container 
 in many locations that allows you to keep some items without using up inventory space however this 
 storage is used by all characters on your account so it can quickly get used up.
  
  The level cap in the game can be something that will be bound to turn off people that enjoy leveling 
 up and getting stronger, I should know since I enjoy it myself, however in GW, constant leveling 
 and battling is unnecessary. This also means that unlike other MMORPGs, there is no need to be 
 playing often throughout the week in order to advance or train. GW is designed to allow you to 
 decide you own pace. Whether you play 30+ hours a week or an hour a day, you can still get a lot 
 done. The missions are designed to generally be no greater than an hour long so a simple hour a 
 day can advance you quickly through the game. As I started off this review, I mentioned that GW 
 is a MMORPG like no other. Besides the low level cap and emphasis on skills over constant levelling, 
 GW also resolves issues that have appeared in other online RPGs. Issues with other players stealing 
 kills and getting credit for both the kill as well as any spoils the enemy drops. In GW, each character 
 shares gold obtained evenly. Items dropped are reserved for human party members and generally each 
 member will obtain plenty of items over the course of a mission. When you enter a mission or area 
 outside a town or outpost, you enter an instanced environment. In other words, only you and your 
 party members have access to that map. Maps are randomly drawn up and different bosses can appear 
 in the map each time. A main map can be brought up any time and you can use that to warp to any 
 outpost, mission, location or town youve unlocked already instantly. This makes travelling much 
 easier instead of having to travel between multiple areas.
  
  Now onto the part of a MMORPG that can make or break the game, community. The entire point of the 
 MMO over single player RPGs is the ability to interact with others to complete tasks. This community 
 determines much of the entertainment value of the genre and here in GW, made admirably. Sure you 
 will find plenty of players who rush about and have little understanding of teamwork and strategies. 
 But there are also others that are dedicated to helping others. In many cases, you can get help 
 on early missions by higher levels willing to help out newcomers to the game. As you advance in 
 the game, it becomes more of a priority to have an entirely human party. At any time you can include 
 henchmen to assist when you dont have enough human players for the mission, however they follow 
 basic patterns and tend to not only die easily, but leave some people unprotected and unhealed. 
 The party system works well. The chat box that can be brought up features a party tab that allows 
 you to speak to all team members. In addition, the radar in the top right corner of the map allows 
 you to ping specific targets (in order to call them and get others to focus their attacks on the 
 same target which is especially useful against dangerous magic users and healers) . You can also 
 draw lines on the map to give directions on where to head next. This allows you to strategize and 
 achieve objectives more easily, another reason human players on most occasions are preferrable 
 to henchmen. The combination of conversing in the chat and the radar make it easy to join a party 
 and get things done without knowing each other beforehand. Also included with the community aspect 
 is of course the guilds. You can join any guild by being invited to them. You can only join one 
 guild unfortunately since your account joins that guild, not your individual characters, something 
 that should have been rectified. Guild members can talk to each other no matter where they are 
 in the game via the Guild chat tab. This allows easy conversation, especially when you want to 
 get to GvG (guild versus guild) battles. Also, since GW is on a single server, you never have to 
 worry about being unable to meet up with friends or guildmates. Simply go to the town or outpost 
 district theyre in and you can easily join them for travels. You can purchase a cape, create your 
 own guild and eventually get a guild hall so you may participate in GvG.
  
  The graphics in GW are crisp and bright, even in post-Searing Ascalon and the Catacombs. Requiring 
 a decent PC to run, the graphics definitely impress with flowing water, falling leaves, plenty 
 of environmental effects. Even with the video settings decreased to increase speed of the game, 
 the character animations (including many humourous emotes that are class specific) . The only downside 
 to the graphics is in the cutscenes. Cutscenes throughout the game use the ingame engine to render 
 all characters and other animations during the segments that run at certain points in the mission. 
 In cutscenes, there are no facial animations when characters speak, something that could have been 
 fixed and wasnt. Lag can sometimes get to be an issue, as with any MMO, but generally the lag 
 only occurs in some towns and occasional glitches since all of GW is on a single server. Nothing 
 major but in the middle of a difficult battle, a few seconds of lag can make all the difference 
 between success and failure.
  
  Sound in the game is primarily orchestral and fits the mood well. There are only subtle differences 
 in music between just exploring and battling but they fit well without distracting, a key balance 
 in any game. Being an RPG fan as I am, I cant help but be a little disappointed that the music 
 isnt as good as it could have been. Sure they have a professional composer in the game but after 
 enough hours, the music just seems to blend into multiple areas with very little difference. It 
 would have been nice if each area had a distinctly different musical tone to it, though the sheer 
 amount of time to construct such a large scale set of music (considering the massive number of 
 areas to explore in GW) , it likely would have been too difficult to achieve. Sound effects wise, 
 each sound effect manages to fit what one would imagine the spells to sound like. Nothing wrong 
 with them. Spoken dialogue, whilst well spoken, is sparse at best. You only hear it during cutscenes 
 and its rather disappointing that they didnt add more to the dialogue in the game. Generally youll 
 see maybe two cutscenes per mission and nothing outside missions so its a shame that they didnt 
 take the time to add some simple facial animations to pull you in.
  
  With many games, including MMOs, there comes a time where the game tends to just become boring 
 or youve beaten it and find nothing else to do. GW remedies some of that initially with other 
 things to do. Theres of course PvP and GvG, but theres also many other things to do. Create a 
 new character and explore how the game plays out using a different class, or find all the skills 
 in the game. Go through the world and search for all the elite skills to capture from bosses, or 
 just go through missions again with new skills to test out or try to obtain every bonus in the 
 game. You can try running through various difficult areas (Lornars Pass for instance if youre 
 brave or fooolish enough) or just head to missions and outposts and help out newcomers that are 
 learning the ropes of the game plus search for all the quests and complete them. Many options are 
 available to anyone that looks hard enough. In the future, to combat repetitiveness and add more 
 replayability, Arenanet has promised expansion packs called chapters which will add many new areas 
 to explore, more missions as well as quests. With all of that, any boredom will be long off even 
 after over 100 hours of play.
  
  Overall, Guild Wars manages to step away from some of the things that can make getting into MMORPGs 
 difficult. With the low level cap and emphasis on player ability and balanced skill choices, GW 
 removes the requirements that other MMOs tend to place on the player, namely playing often. With 
 most missions taking around an hour on average to complete, anyone with a tight schedule can just 
 pick up and play, complete a mission and still progress well even with limited game time. For those 
 that have plenty of time to play, its easy to find plenty to do in the game. With great graphics, 
 excellent gameplay, plenty of missions/quests to complete, and large areas to explore, Guild Wars 
 is definitely an RPG for anyone looking to play an online RPG with a strong story as well as an 
 immersive world with people from around the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: isrxl
Rating: 6.9
Date: Aug 3, 2005 3:36 am PT
Review:  Like many of you, I was really excited when I heard all the hype about this game. It sounded just 
 like the thing I was looking for. The game claims to offer content for varied crowds, from those 
 interested in the RP aspect of it to those looking for the challenge and excitement of PvP, and 
 it does to some extent.
  
  The annoyances of the game soon appear however.
  
  Solo Playing: you cant really play solo (you can if all you care about is getting loot) solo in 
 this game means taking a long a bunch of dumb NPC henchmen to help you out on your quest. I really 
 wish there was a way to give them some basic instructions to lighten the burden of playing with 
 them. 
  
  Group Playing: wow dont get me started a good number of people playing this game seem to be very 
 dim. The eloquent shouting debates that would typically ensue in an FTP game abound here. Their 
 length and intensity aggravated by the fact that people are not always busy running around shooting 
 stuff. In my experience Ive found that it is difficult to get a nice group going. Best thing to 
 do is try to find a guild with mature people to play with (unless, of course, you enjoy the shouting 
 and cursing or you are one of the people doing the shouting and cursing) but even then youre not 
 totally safe.
  
  The Flakes: Yes some times right in the middle of a quest some one will just leave and then another 
 one and another one. I really wish the game provided a way to flag impart a little punishment to 
 these inconsiderate souls.
  
  Graphics: even though it seems like the polygon count of things has been kept at a modest number 
 the games sports some very pretty graphics. Especially vivid are the memories of the Newbeeland 
 where your character starts out. This brings me to my next point.
  
  Navigation: all your graphical paradise quickly comes to a halt when you realize that even though 
 youd only have jump about 1 foot to maybe get out of a river onto dry land, or to jump from dry 
 land into the river, you cant. No, not here, you have to go around and find a nice slope leading 
 you in or out of where you want to go. This is one of the things I find most annoying about the 
 game. 
  
  Gwen is blocking my way: Gwen is a little NPC girl that you do a quest for right after you arrive 
 at Newbeeland. She likes to follow you around dancing, and if you buy her a flute, shell play 
 it every now and then thus restoring a bit of your health. The problem is that if you happen to 
 go into a tight corner and she follows you youll be blocked for a while. Annoying? Yes. Even more 
 annoying, of course, if youre getting beat on and are about to die but cant run because cute 
 little Gwen decided to go spin in circles right on escape path. I use Gwen as an example, but shes 
 not the only one who can block your progress. Players and their pets can also put you on a bad 
 spot.
  
  All things said and done, there is an interesting story going on here and the PvP aspect adds to 
 the value of the game. Maybe the next installment of the game will convince me as currently I am 
 still not a believer. For now I can only say that Ive had more fun soloing in EQ2 than Ive had 
 doing so in GW and that is sad. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Random1992
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 27, 2005 4:30 pm PT
Review:  It a average MMORPG but it ghets you so into the game that you're scared when you're alone in the 
 wilderness and would like someone by your side.
  
  Gameplay: Amazing probably the game with the best gameplay in the world. No game is better, trust 
 me when I say that.
  
  Graphics: Very very old school They could've done SO mush better on them. Instead then just wnated 
 people performance and not visuals.
  
  Sound: Ok, good sound, it gets you into the game even mroe.
  
  Value: Worth 50 bucks but not 
 55, just right.
  
  Tilt: I like it, even though I haven't beaten it it is still a great game and I'd play it some 
 more to just talk and quest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zanetanos
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 1, 2005 3:27 am PT
Review:  Play Guild Wars! This game is absolutely amazing. Top to bottom. As many have previously said, 
 this game takes all the good parts of MMORPGs excises them and adds in chunks of goodness.
  
  Gameplay (9) : All the PvP you could ever want and then some, need I say more?
  
  Graphics 
 (8) : This could have been better for sure, but this game is certainly no slouch. It feels a little 
 bit too full of light, I think they went a little bit overboard with the full screen glow.
  
  Sound (8) : Solid, but nothing to write home about.
  
  Value (10) : No monthly fee! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeLirette
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 30, 2005 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Hi there! This is my first review on gamespot so I am going to make it good. First off I would 
 like to say that Guild Wars is one of the best games you will ever play. I am going to break down 
 all the sections of the game 1 by 1 so you don't get confused in a wall of text.
  
  First off I am going to talk about the gameplay in the game. This is a game where you create a 
 hero with a primary profession, you get to pick it yourself. The choices you get are, the Warrior, 
 who has all the power and gets the strength, swordsmanship, axe mastery, hammer mastery, and tactics 
 attributes. Second is the Ranger, who has expertise, beast mastery, markmanship, and wilderness 
 survival attributes. The next profession is Monk, who has devine favor, healing prayers, smithing 
 prayers, and protecting prayers attributes. The fourth profession is the Elementalist, who has 
 energy storage, fire magic, water magic, earth magic, and air magic attributes. The 5th profession 
 is the Mesmer who has the Fast CAsting, Domination, Illusion, and inspiration. The Sixth profession 
 is the Necromancer, who has soul reaping, curses, blood magic, and death magic. Each profession 
 can also have a secondary profession later on allowing you to use some of the skills you would 
 not get as your primary profession.
  
  The Graphics are great and really up to date but it is going to take a video card with at least 
 60+Mb or more to run the game. About 500+ Ram would do you good as well. There is not to much lag 
 but sometimes it can get really annoying. The best way to get rid of it is to log out and then 
 log back in. The effects and sound effects in the game a great and up to date with many different 
 sounds for the attacks and realistic fighting sounds, the clanging of swords agains't swords and 
 sheild agains't metal.
  
  The game should keep you busy for a long time with an expected expansion coming out and with all 
 the many places to go in the game. I will explain some of the enemy's and places you get to go 
 to in Guild Wars.
  
  Here are the gods of Guild Wars. 
  Dwayna is the goddess of life and air.
  Balthazar is the god of war and fire.
  Grenth is the 
 Necromancers god.
  Lyssa is the god of beauty and illusion.
  and Melandru is the Goddess of earth and Nature.
  
  I will give you some of the main charecters 
 in the games profiles.
  
  King Adelbern
  Born in: Drascir
  Nation: Ascalon
  Profession: Warrior
  Age: 61
  
  Prince Rurik
  Born in: Drascir
  Nation: Ascalon
  Profession: 
 Warrior
  Age: 32
  
  King Jalis Ironhammer
  Born in: Grobble's Gulch
  Nation: Deldrimor
  Age: 127
  
  Devona
  Born in: Rin
  Nation: Ascalon
  Profession: Warrior
 
  Age: 24
  
  Cynn
  Born in: Surmia
  Nation: Ascalon
  Profession: Elementalist
  Age: 20
  
  Aidan
  Born in: Kree Foothills
  Nation: Ascalon
  Profession: Ranger
  Age: 
 32
  
  Mhenlo
  Born in: Serenity Temple
  Nation: Ascalon
  Profession: Monk
  Age: 22
  
  Taken from the Guild Wars Manuscripts.
  
  Some of the enemys you will see are, 
 Charr, The Stone Summit, and the Undead.
  
  Some of the places you get to go to in Guild Wars are:
  
  The Ruins of Ascalon.
  The Silverpeak 
 Mountains
  Kryta
  Maguuma Jungle
  The Crystal Desert
  The Ring of Fire Island Chain
  The Underworld
  The Rift
  The Hall of Hero's
  Lord Odran's Folly
  
  There are well over 
 800 skills to get in the game to help you level up and do more damage. I am not going to give away 
 any of the story because the whole thing is a big suprise as you go and do quests for people. Have 
 fun and I hope to see you online sometime. Thanks.
  
  Mike Lirette
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paula465
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 28, 2005 2:10 pm PT
Review:  "Never." "Not in a million years." Those would have been my responses if someone had asked me if 
 I would enjoy playing a game like Guild Wars. But I guess it's "never say never", because I'm having 
 a grand time.
  
  There's been some negative comments in the forums that I frequent about the thin story line, and 
 I'll be the first to admit it's a little hokey. BUT, I still enjoy it and I always watch the cinemas 
 (at least, the first time) .
  
  I'm not into the PvP portion of the game, so I can't comment on that. However, I love the PvE side, 
 completing quests and missions, getting rewards, seeing what kind of goodies drop for me along 
 the way and playing with my guild mates. I've even made a number of new friends while on-line when 
 my guildies weren't.
  
  I really like the fact that the game isn't linear. Yes, you can follow the storyline in order of 
 occurrence, completing each quest or mission in the order they appear, but you can also get a group 
 of guild mates, friends or henchmen and just explore. I've found a number of places just wandering 
 around the map, not to mention the incredible scenery along the way. Some of the places just take 
 my breath away. Speaking of breath, I still get a kick out of seeing the frost hang on my breath 
 in the colder climes of the game.
  
  I purchased the game shortly after it was released and I still haven't gotten my first character 
 through the entire game. I know many have already played 3, 4 or more characters all the way through, 
 but I don't spend mass amounts of time in the game, maybe 1 or 2 hours at the most and some days 
 not at all. My point is, I feel that I've gotten good value for my money and I'm looking forward 
 to the August mini-expansion as well as next year's full expansion.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOTE
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 26, 2005 10:21 pm PT
Review:  From my point of view this game is awesom it has everything that an RPG should have, a great story 
 and an incredible gameplay. But every game has its faults or maybe you could call them a few tweeks 
 and guild wars is one of those games whose only error is just a minor scratch on sound and gameplay 
 other than that there is nothing more need to say. You got to play this game for yourself to find 
 out. Thats all. My score is that its almost picture perfect. There is nothing more to say about 
 this game. I mean right from the begining you are gripped into this highly addictive story line 
 and your heart is impulsed by the incredible ai which you face during the game. They might seem 
 easy, but never trust the eye. I have a small hunch that this game could be the one to win the 
 best game of the year. I have expected nothing more from the developers only greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfibsux
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 23, 2005 11:21 am PT
Review:  Guild wars is a hybrid MMORPG/Single player RPG game which boasts no monthly fees. Even though 
 Guild Wars is touted as a PvP game, the meat of the game is the storyline where you will complete 
 a main quest line with hundreds of subquests available. It is by no means as open ended as RPG's 
 such as Morrowind, but you can choose from different areas to explore and which quests to take 
 outside the main storyline. The neat thing about this is you can experience this "single player" 
 mode with other people, or you can choose henchmen to fill in group slots not occupied by player 
 controlled characters. The quests are "instanced" in that they are zones made especially for your 
 experience and that of your group. In between these instanced areas are towns where the MMORPG 
 experience kicks in. Other players from around the world will also occupy these towns and much 
 talk and trading exists. The game lacks an auction to buy and sell items which is unfortunate since 
 there is virtually no community in this game as found in the typical MMORPG. 
  You can choose between 6 classes, and then very early can choose any subclass. You will only be 
 able to wear the armor of your main class, and will not get a main skill line of your second class. 
 You will gain skills and spells throughout the game either from trainers or quests. You can have 
 hundreds of skills and spells available to you, but for missions, PvP, and quests you may only 
 take 8 with you. This works very well and makes you become creative at how to best fill your slots. 
 Many spells work well with others and will compliment them, it is up to you how you want to use 
 them.
  PvP for the casual player is at best a diversion from questing. You will pretty much be stuck playing 
 in random arenas where your team is thrown together by the game itself against another rag tag 
 team. If you win the match you stay as a team, lose, and you start over again with a new team. 
 Most of the time I find people do not work together well in these arenas, once in awhile you will 
 get together with some good players who work well together and classes compliment each other. But 
 most of the time this is not the case. If you truly want to experience the genius of the balance 
 in this game, you will have to put time in to become a good pvp player, then get with a serious 
 guild that will take you in. I do not consider this a casual option in the game. You can also go 
 straight to PvP without questing or leveling by creating a max level character. You will be limited 
 as to what skills you can have, as you must "unlock" them first either by discovering them in the 
 PvE part of the game, or through earning faction points in PvP. It takes at least 1000 points to 
 unlock a skill for use in PvP. 
  In conclusion, Guild Wars is a great "single player" RPG and great for the casual player, but for 
 me the PvP is merely a diversion from monster bashing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrainedMyDamage
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 23, 2005 12:37 am PT
Review:  I had a friend who told me to go out and get this game, so I decided I would. Now, I am almost 
 strictly a console gamer, but this one struck me as a must have. And wow, were my friends right 
 about it. I love it.
  
  Even though I barely have the capability of running it (I have a horrible video card) , I still 
 get to enjoy great graphics, which I must think are much better with a video card made for gaming. 
 
  
  The world is so immense. I was surprised at how large it was, and that was the beginning part. 
 I was totally stunned when I entered the real gaming world, and looked at how monstrously huge 
 the map is. It's gotta hold hours of quests and missions and such.
  
  And the storyline is great, along with such a large area to travel, so much has to happen. And 
 so, I'm thrilled about finishing the game, and hope those of you trying it out will as well love 
 it.
  
  And the set-up is layed out for even the worst players. An easy system to use skills works like 
 a charm-quick and efficient. And the rest can be easily remembered with just a little bit of game-playing 
 time. One bad thing I must add is that there's too much. There were so many quests in the beginning 
 part of the game, I just didn't want to go through all of them. I wanted to get on with the rest 
 of the game. But other than that, I love it, and you will too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buzzcut1989
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 22, 2005 3:49 am PT
Review:  Guild wars is a great game for any RPG lover. GW sets you in a fantasy world not too different from 
 our mid-evil times. You can play as a warrior, a ranger, a monk, a necromancer, an elementalist 
 or a mesmer. Each has their drawbacks and perks. The attention to graphics on this game are amazing 
 (especially if you have a higher end computer. (Every now and then I stop just to look around) . The 
 game-play is also amazing. You are ever-sinking into a bigger story line which emerges you into 
 a world of chaos and death / serenity and peace. If you are used to WOW, you must try out Guild 
 Wars. In my mind it is a great buy and I'm glad to have it in my game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaos-Angel
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 20, 2005 6:05 pm PT
Review:  So I got GW on the day it came out and took place in two of the Betas.
  
  Well, all I can say is that it's a very nice game.
  The game is seriously the MMO for the Next-Gen. 
 I've been on FFXI and WoW and I left them both for GW. The interface is much tighter, much cleaner, 
 and far more user friendly. 
  
  The society in GW is much tighter then the other MMOs. Real feel that you're in another world but 
 at the sametime it keeps the balance in check. 
  
  Gameplay: So simple yet so complex. Limitless ways to play. Main story takes roughly one week per 
 char. The PvP after is limitless.
  
  Graphics: For a game using the old Direct X8... it looks VERY nice.
  
  Sound: Music fits, sounds 
 fit, voice acting works... but I did wish they would move their lips...
  
  Vale: Worth 40-50 bucks. No monthly fees... perfect.
  
  Tilt: Great game, a breath of fresh 
 air... this is the new Gen of MMOs. 
  
  Overall, I wouldn't mind if this game ran on a single server for PS3, 360, and the Rev. I really 
 wouldn't mind if they all got into this game too on the same server. It would be so kick ass..
 
  
  ^_^
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Incubiss_exe
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 15, 2005 8:08 pm PT
Review:  The game was very very good. The battlesing was fun the grafics are amazing (if you have a good 
 video card) and great if you dont. The battleing is fun and fast and making partys is good too. 
 I liked the pvp better then the pve but the whole thing was very well done and it could of been 
 serperated into 2 differnt games. There are 6 classes to choose from and they all are different 
 in someway. And the warrior is not boring anymore because it is the only chararter that can cc. 
 With is kindove bad also because if you are not a warrior and get into cc you are dead. A nother 
 negitive is this is not a real mmorpg. It is a lot more like diablo 2 then world of warcraft. But 
 dont get me wrong the world is hudge and u can get many people to join up with u. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echoman6007
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 15, 2005 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Well i've read most of the post and for the most part they are true. After spending A lot of time 
 on this game I found it to be fun the first time through, but when trying to create an other character 
 I found that you are running around in the same land scape as before and the quest are the same 
 with different text. I feel that most of the hype for this game was that there was no monthly fee. 
 Which for most people that is great. This is more of a PvP or GvG then a RPG. If you are looking 
 to do a lot of PvP or GvG then this is a great game for that. If you are looking for an RPG then 
 i would say if you can afford the money, then do so but after that then you are stuck with PvP 
 or GvG until the expansion comes out. Most of the people on line are friendly and helpful for the 
 most part. The only reason i gave this game a lower score than 9 is the replay ability is lacking. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltACP
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 12, 2005 12:59 pm PT
Review:  Well after rave reviews i had to buy this game. this was also my first mmorpg and its an excellent 
 place to start as generally i find everyone likes to help (although the community has become more 
 selfish overtime) so you will never be short of experienced players to fight alongside. the roleplaying 
 part is where i usually spend my time and it is a wholelly enjoyable experience and you meet some 
 interesting people, so what if the story is typical and predictable its not about that its about 
 travelling with friends and chatting whilst killing monsters which is perfectly possible thanks 
 to the easy interfaces which although takes a little to get used to can be mastered by the time 
 you go post searing. the presentation is all good, some of the spell effects are a little tame but 
 overall the look and feel of the game is good. there are plenty of missions to do and by the time 
 you finnish the roleplaying youll have ammased enough friends to start going head to head-never 
 feel bad about losing in PVP you will always have better days and thats what i like no one is a 
 sore loser in guildwars they appluad good skill use and heavily contested matches, its all in good 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xts3
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 10, 2005 2:18 am PT
Review:  A good game but those yearning for another game equal in fun to Diablo will be disappointed. The 
 loot and skill attribute systems are not as fleshed out or as deep as diablo's, the game really 
 falls flat in terms of loot and items, levels and power gaming we all came to love with the Diablo 
 series and hasn't been matched since.
  
  Guild wars starts out promising enough with it's lavishly rendered graphics and opening cutscene 
 with amazing almost tolkien-esque heavenly music you'd think you were hearing during a sequence 
 in the movie The Lord of the rings : The fellowship of the rings.
  
  The game itself seems pretty extravagantly promising at first as you play the game; there are lots 
 and lots of skills and monsters to whack, lush graphics and huge landscapes. The developers at 
 Arena. net took a clue from blizzards Diablo team that in order for you to get most people to do 
 quests you need experience, items and skill rewards as most people just dont give much of a darn 
 about "questing" if there is not a significant incentive to do so. Since in game quests are not 
 going to contain the full motion video and acting cutscenes and voiceovers of the main story like 
 in most RPGs simply because its too much work and financially impossible for game developers with 
 the current state of technology in the age we live in.
  
  The first problem and I think its a glaring one, is that many reviewers who reviewed the game 
 may have never figured out how to move on out of the Pre-Searing Ascalon. The problem is that when 
 you first start the game you begin in the newbie area but its not obvious how to get out of it 
 without asking around. What happens in the beginning of the game you are required to pick up two 
 classes, a main class and a sub class. Once you do get a subclass you will be asked if you want 
 to make this change permanent. Then once youve made it permanent you have to go and talk to Tydus 
 by the gate back in Pre-searing (i. e. not destroyed) ascalon to go to the start of the map real 
 game world.
  
  After you get out of the pre-searing ascalon the game starts to take off. The world is absolutely 
 enormous and the amounts of skills available for the different characters are quite large for the 
 majority of the characters but some problems youll notice will come up later in the game once 
 youve gotten through most of the game which I will get to later. 
  
  The in game missions (the actual levels) for Guild wars are pretty decent and straightforward, 
 they play exactly like missions/quests in other console games where you are thrown into a level 
 and you have objectives to fulfill during the mission / level. Inside the missions they have in-game 
 cutscenes along the way, either at the beginning of the mission, during it when you do some objective, 
 or at the end. They all serve to enhance the game and they get the job done but wont be winning 
 any awards anytime soon. All the games story cutscenes takes place rendered inside the game and 
 inside the main events and missions. The voice acting is well done considering that most voice 
 acting in video games; even the lauded Final fantasy X is pretty atrocious for most game characters. 
 They are serviceable and good enough, no one should really have any complaints.
  
  Now an RPG like guild wars whose focus is on skills, leveling up and action should have had way 
 more in the way of gear and magical items and a much deeper skill tree (skills you invest points 
 in from your level ups to upgrade your other skills) . This is where Guild wars starts to suffer 
 in the late game, almost everything in guild wars is not really rare or differentiated enough from 
 regular items to spend time even looking for them, even if it is blue (magical) , purple (semi-rare 
 magical) , and gold (unique) , almost all of these items are bland, and undifferentiated from normal 
 or common magical weapons. They all end up blending together; the regular and magical items frequently 
 are better then unique and purple magic items. This leaves you feeling the depth of the gear, loot 
 and magic items system is really shallow and uninspired because the game developers obsession with 
 game balance for their player versus player arenas. So the single player game ends up suffering 
 as you have less and less a reason to keep fighting monsters the higher level you become, and once 
 you hit level 20 and finish the game youll pretty much put away the game if you have no interest 
 in player versus player.
  
  The other problem is the higher level you go, the more youll question the lack of skill points 
 you have to invest in those skills trees of your main attributes to make your subclass skills worthwhile. 
 Many subclasses are impossible for certain class combinations simply do to the enormous amount 
 of skill points you have to invest to get skills anywhere near powerful enough to justify the insane 
 mana cost for some character types because they lack energy points or the fast energy recharge 
 (recharge is denoted with   arrows on the mana and health bars in the game) . Warriors pretty 
 much have to forgo heavy magic users such as elementalist or Mesmer as subclass unless they use 
 only the cheapest of spells or equip +energy items, which take up slots for more useful effects 
 for your main class.
  
  Another other problem is that the game developers got it into their heads that making runes with 
 debuffs as well as buffs was cool. Sorry no one likes items that give you a +1 or +2 to some 
 skill and then take away -50 hp, sorry that just doesnt wash well with game players. Seeing a 
 negative attribute on an item that takes away from your main character statistics is a big no no, 
 for a game. No one is going to want to reduce the efficacy of their character.
  
  Yet another complaint is that applying runes, the system is so limited as to be nearly useless. 
 You can only apply one rune at a time to one piece of armor at a time, so say you have +1 to some 
 skill and +1 to some other skill, you cant put more then one rune on one piece of armor and you 
 only have 4 pieces to place them, head, chest, legs, feet. You can forget about applying them to 
 weapons and shields, runes dont work on weapons and shields (or wands and frost artifacts, etc 
 for magic users) .
  
  Lastly you can only take 8 skills into battle or outside world, which you can only change inside 
 towns, which really limits the amount of tactics you have at your disposal while fighting enemies 
 on the field which really detracts from the game. You have all those skills but can only take 8 
 with you to fight with during an outing. This is where Guild wars falls flat in that youll be 
 hanging onto only 8 at a times throughout the entire game. This was done in order to balance 
 the player versus player aspect of the game, so once again the developers are sacrificing single 
 player game play for multiplayer balance reasons, which ends up reducing the fun to be had in the 
 single player portion of the game.
  
  All in all, despite my greivances, Guild wars is a good game, just not a great one. It's wonderful 
 experience your first time through, but after that or you reach really the highest levels it gets 
 old really fast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nico230383
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 9, 2005 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Great game, no monthly fee so thats a big plus.
  Alot of options for character development, long list of skills to be learned. 
  forming a guild 
 is easy and fun. another big plus is the low system specs.
  
  The surroundings are great, everything looks nice and objects never really get in the way.
  Also 
 there are alot of people playing at every hour of the day so there are always people that will 
 help you with a quest if you request it.
  
  i dont have mucht to say about this game, if you love mmorpg then this is a game for you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spazattack9281
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jul 6, 2005 2:17 am PT
Review:  I really expected this game to be better, it might of been if not for the unnesesary lag the game 
 constantly hold, even when playing offline. The lag makes it extrememly hard to play, even move. 
 Not to mention how easiely it is to get over your head and not to get out. Overall, this game was 
 a letdown. I will stick to other RPGs. This one was only a waste of time to me. I must admit, there 
 was some fun moments, the very begging of the game was enjoyable, but after that, it just went 
 downhill. It was very dissapointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragon
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 4, 2005 1:23 pm PT
Review:  As a solo RPG player, Guild Wars is the first MMO game I played, ever. What I noticed was the wonderful 
 graphics -- and a the time, soothing music. The last RPG that I enjoyed playing was Neverwinter 
 Nights (not the add-ons) .
  
  Guild Wars is a hack-and-slash/action-oriented game and really focuses the player towards player 
 vs. player game play. The game is split into two when you create a character: Roleplaying or PvP 
 (player vs. player) . I am a roleplayer and my review will reflect that. The missions and quests 
 in Guild Wars are oriented towards team play, although solo players, like myself, can use henchmen 
 during most of the game (no henchmen in the beginning of the game, called "Pre-Searing") . My preference 
 for RPGs usually lean towards storyline heavy games, where the adventure and storyline are key 
 to keeping my interest. Guild Wars has a patchwork story, but upon thinking about it, is inadequate 
 for my tastes. You start in Pre-Searing and are introduced to the key players of the game: Prince 
 Rurick, the "Masters" for each of the professions who give your skills to continue further into 
 the game. You are also introduced to Ascalon, where you are from, and a war that is imminently 
 going to begin.
  
  Post-Searing starts you in war-torn Ascalon and you go beyond Ascalon into other "countries". This 
 is where the storyline fall apart. You first are loyal to the King of Ascalon (whom I have no recollection 
 of other than seeing him once in a cut scene) , and then suddenly, you're helping his disowned son, 
 Prince Rurick. Huh? Then, you move onto a new place completely not related to where you started 
 (the war with the Charr, etc.) and are helping some people called "The White Mantle". Oh, wait, 
 you find out The White Mantle are bad guys and you help the rebellion. Hang on... you can't help 
 the rebellion because you will die if you go back, you have to Ascend first. Ascending means you 
 have to go through a series of seriously hard missions to "scrub out your human characters" and 
 become god-like, I suppose. The last Ascension mission is to fight your doppleganger (mirror-self) . 
 While you're going through the Ascension missions, you have to help ghosts ascend themselves because 
 they failed a long time ago. This is quite a patchwork story.
  
  As an aside, the cut scenes are pretty interesting, and can be hysterical if you ever happen to 
 cut at the moment an enemy attacks you with a melee weapon: it joins you in the cut scene and hacks 
 at your character until the cut scene ends. Meanwhile, your character just stands there and looks 
 around like nothing is happening. I rolled on the floor laughing.
  
  
  The henchmen AI in Guild Wars is adequate, at best. They are adequate for up to the point you reach 
 the Crystal Desert, where you are supposed to finish the missions there to achieve "Ascension". 
 The henchmen simply do not do as well as human players in the missions, although they do passably 
 on quests in the area. The limits of the henchmen are (not an exhaustive list) : they only attack 
 who you attack (if the fighters are blocked from reaching that enemy, they just stand there getting 
 assaulted by other melee enemies) ; the henchman healer spends more time healing herself than anyone 
 else since the enemies fighters aim for her first (and you're busy trying to kill the enemy healer/spell 
 caster so the enemies can't heal) ; the henchmen will attack on their own if the enemies enter their 
 space/zone; and the henchmen are always lower level than you for most of the game (they are level 
 20 after you Ascend) .
  
  What annoys me the most about this game is that Guild Wars gives you a *foil of roleplaying* when 
 all they are doing is tailoring you to play PvP or Guild Wars. Why bother with the roleplaying 
 element when that's all the game makers want you to do? I came to this conclusion with the missions 
 in the Crystal Desert. You have fight bands of enemies that look a lot like the Guild War layout: 
 invade the enemy base and kill the other team. (I joined a Guild and tried a guild war out of curiosity. 
 My conclusion is that I hate button-mashing-hack-and-slash game playing. Not surprising since this 
 kind of play is not my preference.) The doppleganger fight before Ascension is tailored to "train 
 you" for PvP fighting. What's worse is that the Doppleganger is definitely *not* your mirror self: 
 it's a combination of what you are along with two other professions as well. So, definitely not 
 a fair fight, by all means.
  
  I quit playing after I got to this point because I'm annoyed with the gameplay. Guild Wars evolved 
 into a game that I don't like to play -- PvP (to me, that's like first person shooter) or guild 
 wars (that's like a real time strategy/first person shooter game) . Not surprisingly, the people 
 who I played with and love this game enjoy online first person shooter. Therefore, calling Guild 
 Wars a "massively multiplayer online ROLEPLAYING game" is a misnomer.
  
  I give Guild Wars a "Difficult" rating because you litereally hit a wall at the point of when you 
 have to Ascend. You cannot continue onto other areas of the map unless you manage to do this. The 
 caveat is that you may be able to run to Droknar's Forge (where you go after ascension) if you 
 manage to not die trying to get there. The road there is crawling with level 24+ enemies and you 
 can get lucky and reach that area, if you like dying, a lot.
  
  I give Guild Wars great marks for a fantastic world it initially created with its beautiful graphics, 
 the engaging story in Post-Searing Ascalon, and it's interesting way of character development. 
 The music became annoying after two weeks, so I shut it off.
  
  In conclusion, this game is geared for people who like FPS/RTS games, and have limited game play 
 for strict roleplayers like myself. It is a good thing that there are no monthly fees for the game, 
 otherwise I would be more upset with buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireBot
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2005 1:33 pm PT
Review:  First thing I'm sure most everyone has heard about is the fact there's no monthly fee. Not only 
 does this mean you don't need to go thru the hassle of explaining to your parents why this game 
 is crucial to your life, and how much you need their credit card to play it, you will obviously 
 also sve money. Not only that but it speeds up the sign up process so you're in the game quickly. 
 After that you'll be set to create your character. The faces, hair styles, hair colors are plentiful, 
 so it's likely you'll never see another character that looks like you because the combonations 
 are endless. 
  
  This is also where you choose your class, for the most part they're all your stndard ones for RPGs. 
 You have your Warrios the specializes in melee combat, and high strength. Then your spell casters 
 like Necromancers (dark magic) , Monks, and Elementalists who, obviously, cast spells rather then 
 engage in weapon-weapon melee combat. Finally there's the Ranger who specializes in ranged combat 
 and summoning creatures to right for them. Really there is something for everyone on this game, 
 and with the ability to become a second class as well you can make some pretty awesome combonations.
 
  
  Now you're ready to start into the battle to defend the human kingdoms from the Charr invasion. 
 That is, after many side quests and much time spent learning to ropes of how to play. When you 
 load up the city for the first time you'll notice the beautiful graphics, which are present through 
 out the game will no slow down (depending on your system) so be prepared to be amazed as one of 
 your Mesmers in your party casts a Domination spell, or you find yourself staring at a city for 
 a few minutes from afar just looking at it. Though onceyou get into heavy battles I can't say for 
 sure how much scenery gazing you'll be doing.
  
  One you play for some time you'll start to get a feel for the very clean and well done heads up 
 display and interface. As if it's not great enough as is you can even move around, and resize, 
 everything on the display, so you can even make that look how you want it to. You also will have 
 become use to the skill bar, and using your skills. You'll also notice you are only allowed eight 
 spells at a time, and they can only be swapped out in towns. This shouldn't be too much decision 
 for classes like Warrior and Ranger, but for Necromancers, Mesmers, and the like this is where 
 strategy really comes in, the game all but makes you choose the skills best for the job. You are 
 also allowed four weapon sets, which are setto the F1-F4 keys. This will make changing weapons 
 and armor quite a bit easier in the heat of battle if you find an enemy that is weaker to a certain 
 waepon more then another.
  
  You'll also want to take advantageof getting a second class, actually you are required to to advance 
 in the main quest. Though choosing a second class is a quest in itself. With six to choose from 
 you might find some problems picking the right one. With that in mind also remember that what one 
 you pick WILL affectyour character, either greatly, or not so much so. Something as small as what 
 one you choose first, and what one second, will affect you. For example: being Necromancer as your 
 first class and a Elementalist as your second will not give you the same effect as being an Elementalist 
 then for your second class a Necromancer. Again strategy is coming into play, and possibly even 
 the need to do some research, which is easy becuase they set it up so you can try each class combo 
 with your primary class you chose at the start of the game. You're given a small task, and a few 
 of that classes skills or spells to use to aid you, and to give you a litte taste of what they 
 do.
  
  With a second job you get to head off to the acadamy and shortly there after engage in your first 
 PvP battle. Oh yeah, this game has PvP and it's pretty awesome. You're put in a room with 4-5 other 
 players (human... players) and across a small field another team of 4-5 wait in a similar room. 
 You're given some timeto prepare, then the gtes are opened and there you are in PvP battle. The 
 winning team is allowed out into the world, and as a result advances in the plot, the losing team 
 gets to try again. PvP tends to scare a lot of people it would seem, I know I'm not much for PvP 
 at all, and tend to avoid it unless I'm with friends. Though I will admit this little skirmish 
 with my rag-tag team was rather fun, and there was no hard feelins if you 'let' someone on the 
 team die, everyone was just having fun, and overall it's apositive experience early on, in what 
 I see as an attempt to get more people into PvP later on in the game.
  
  Don't get me wrong though, the battles against AI monsters is every bit as intense as it is against 
 humans. So those who fear human contact need not have any fear. Infact, they even have AI henchmen 
 for you that you can use to form a party with for aid on quests. So in theory you don't ever need 
 to talk to anyone, though some quests will be significantly easier with human players. That and 
 it's good to socialize with those that share your taste in games, am I right?
  
  Now for my two very tiny, very insignificant complaints about this game. First one is the level 
 cap, you see why I said insignificant complaints? It's not THAT big of a deal really, I just think 
 it should be higher then that. However they do have the EXP set up so that unless you are a very 
 hardcore player it should take you a fair amount of time to level one level, let alone to level 
 20. So really, not too big of a deal. Then my other one is inventory space, or rather, lack of. 
 When I play my games that require gold or some form of currency to buy things I like to have a 
 lot of gold, makes sense right? You get most of your gold from drops and loot. However 15 slots 
 you get at first, minus the ones taken up by any weapons you use, isn't really enough. You can 
 buy bags to expand, but I have two additional bags now both of which cost me 100 gold, 200 total 
 (which on this game is seen as a fair amount) and it only got me 10 more spaces, which were quickly 
 filled with quest items and weapons.
  
  Though none of my complaints interfere with with story line, or the game as a whole, it's just 
 a couple minor annoyances. Speaking of the story line, from what I have seen so far it's very well 
 done. You're a hero that is summoned in times of war, the Charr armies are invading Human kingdoms 
 and they're dangerously short on men. So everyone willing enough to fight has been summoned. Most 
 of these heros are members of Guilds, the Guilds also hold regular battles (hence the games name) 
 in which they fight and gain, or lose, the favor of the gods. Which is set up by countries, so 
 Americans might have favor of the gods if American guilds are on top. Along side the main quest 
 to defeat the Charr you'll also find many side quests, some are as simple as delivering messages 
 to people, some as difficult as killing Charr sourcerers to get their amulets for a monk that needs 
 them to cast a large spell. All in all these, with the main quest, will keep you busy for hours, 
 if not days. Just remember, sleep is good for you, and Guild Wars is not required to live.... despite 
 popular belief.
  
  So with the stunning graphics, backed by an equally stunning story, and it's lack of extra fees 
 you can't go wrong with Guild Wars. I'd say any fan of RPG's either offlineor online will find 
 this game very enoyable. Even soem casual RPG players like myself will get in on it. Don't let 
 the PvP or the fact that all of the game's quests are online, since it's very possible to still 
 play some of them as singleplayer ones, and at worse you'd need to call upon the assistance of 
 AI driven henchmen to fight for you. So if you need a game that will last you through the rest 
 of summer vacation, and even the rest of the year, this is the game you need to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noobshow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2005 2:01 am PT
Review:  Tired of the usual online RPG paradigm of grinding for experience, tedious leveling up of trade 
 skills, and crowded killing fields? Guild Wars ditches traditional massively multiplayer time-sink 
 gameplay, replacing it with fast-paced and addictive player vs. player-focused action that often 
 shares more with Counter-Strike than World of Warcraft. This is an MMORPG with a difference. 
 
  
  Quite a number of differences, as it happens. The most important difference, from the purchaser's 
 point of view, is that Guild Wars doesn't have subscription payments. Instead of monthly fees, 
 the team plans to support the game's servers by releasing regular expansion packs every so often 
 -- but buying these will be optional. If you're content with the content in the retail box, you 
 can go on playing with that for as long as you like. 
  
  Also unusual are the character types. Although they seem to fall into standard archetypes, very 
 early in the game, you choose a second class to complement your first. You can mix and match skills 
 and abilities from both classes freely, blending your character as you see fit. An early front-runner 
 is the Warrior/Monk combination, mixing up-close damage, healing spells and buffs, but the choice 
 is only limited by your imagination. 
  
  Each profession has about 150 skills, but you can only have eight of them accessible at once. Changing 
 your skillset requires you to go back to town, so before embarking on a mission or a PVP encounter, 
 you'll need to anticipate your needs and plan accordingly. Little about your character is set in 
 stone. 
  
  Crafting is handled with a slick system that's both easy to learn and flexible. There are no gathering 
 or crafting professions. Instead, you "salvage" objects dropped by defeated monsters to obtain 
 raw materials, like cloth, leather, or wood. Non-player characters can turn these ingredients into 
 new equipment, for a fee. 
  
  Bored of spending ages running about the world, looking for merchants or quest areas? Guild Wars 
 eliminates all that in one stroke. You can travel between the game's cities instantaneously -- 
 or, at least, in the time it takes to choose your destination and wait for a brief load. 
  
  As the MMORPG market develops, more and more games are making use of "instanced" areas, a technique 
 where an individual player or group can have a private copy of a zone, to quest and fight free 
 from interference from other players. Guild Wars takes this idea to its extreme, instancing the 
 entire world (apart from the cities) . 
  
  So running across another group of players, or competing for the chance to fight a rare creature, 
 just doesn't happen. It's a perfect situation for explorers -- the world is yours, and you're able 
 to wander it without interference. You can still form a group in town before you leave, and if 
 you're not in the mood for real company, you can hire NPC mercenaries to back you up. 
  
  Once you're out in the world, you'll find it a hostile place. Enemies are plentiful, and fights 
 are challenging and swift. When you die, you'll receive a penalty that can be removed by returning 
 to town, or killing enough monsters. The non-PVP play isn't as tactically rich as other MMORPGs, 
 but the quests are reasonably varied, and the pace suits casual play very well. 
  
  Given the title, you won't be surprised to hear that player-versus-player combat is a huge focus 
 of Guild Wars, but not in a free-for-all, Ultima Online sense. PVP only takes place at certain 
 pre-defined locations, and in organized competitions rather than out-and-out chaos. Tournaments 
 and guild challenges are both included, and many of the styles -- like King of the Hill and Capture 
 the Relic (flag) -- will be more familiar to shooter fans than MMORPG addicts. 
  
  Even the largest PVP matches only have eight players per team - huge Warcraft-style battles aren't 
 going to happen. Pick-up groups are fun, but real success requires a more planned approach, and 
 ideally a regular set of teammates. Play more, and you'll discover there's significant tactical 
 variety and depth to the team play. 
  
  All this fun isn't limited to those with the time to play through to higher levels. You can opt 
 to create a PVP-only character, who'll be unable to see any PVE content, but starts the game already 
 at the level cap and ready to compete in the game's events. Of course, you'll probably find leveling 
 up your own PVP contender yourself more satisfying, but it's great to see the Guild Wars team have 
 enough confidence in their end-game content to let players see it right from the start. 
  
  Heavy with the fashionable "glow" effect sported by many recent titles, Guild Wars' visuals are 
 sumptuous. It's a gorgeous game, with an imaginative style that's worlds away from both Everquest's 
 realistic swords-and-sorcery feel and World of Warcraft's cartoony, hand-drawn look. 
  
  Players of single-player RPGs might also recognize the soundtrack's style. Jeremy Soule is fast 
 becoming the gaming world's John Williams, and his score lends Guild Wars a heavyweight, serious 
 feel -- and underlines the tragic nature of the game's opening hours with skill. Buyers of the 
 Collector's Edition will receive a CD of his excellent music. 
  
  Even the client program is in good shape. It's stable and runs well -- the servers (or, rather, 
 server: Guild Wars just has one) have been reliable over the typically problematic launch period, 
 and when problems are found, the team can push fixes out to all the players with their innovative 
 streaming technology. It's painless. 
  
  Is Guild Wars really an MMORPG, then? Does it matter? Certainly, it has characteristics that are 
 typical of the genre, but there's plenty here that's more typical of a single-player RPG or even 
 an action-heavy combat game. Typical MMORPG strategies like pulling, tanking, and so on aren't 
 much use even in the player vs. environment portions. The game's paced like Diablo, not Everquest 
 -- unsurprising considering the team includes former Blizzard staffers. 
  
  Traditional MMORPG addicts may not find much here to tempt them away from their usual poison. Leveling 
 is quick and painless, penalties for failure are slim, trade skills are practically non-existent 
 --much here would be anathema to a game with the same old Everquest structure. Committed players 
 will hit the level cap in a few days -- but that's really where the game begins. If PvP's not your 
 bag, Guild Wars isn't your game, but you should really have been able to tell that from the title. 
 
  
  On the other hand, if tedious leveling up, dull combat, or uninspired player vs. player gaming 
 are your quibbles with today's massively multiplayer offerings, Guild Wars is the cure. With its 
 user-friendly and bug-free client, immensely well thought out design, flexible structure, and first-class 
 PVP, NCSoft's latest is off to an excellent start -- and the price is certainly right. Don't miss 
 it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sammmyboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2007 1:02 am PT
Review:  In the spring of 2005, I read an article in a Belgian PC gaming magazine about some game called 
 Guild Wars (GW) . The first thing that caught my eye was the fact that it would be an MMORPG without 
 the typical monthly subscription fee. Interesting... From that moment on, I had this image of GW 
 as a free clone of World of Warcraft (WoW) . Lemme tell ye: it is NOT.
  
  The differences between GW and WoW are the following: WoW is a standard definition MMORPG, whereas 
 GW can be seen as an online 3D hack 'n slash / RPG with both single player and MMO elements, including 
 a playable storyline. You should also know that most MMO's contain a few areas that are instanced 
 (when you go in, the only living creatures you'll se will be you, your party and your enemies.) 
 In GW, every explorable area is instanced. So this is how it works: you want to do a quest or a 
 storyline mission, you go to an outpost (outposts / towns / mission posts are all MMO) , you start 
 building a party and you're off. You won't be bothered by other players while you're questing. 
 That's good, but it takes away the feeling of freedom and of being a part of a huge world (due 
 to the loading screens) . There are no mounts, because you can instantly 'travel' to an outpost 
 or town using the map. Another difference with WoW is that WoW is THE archetype of a fantasy game. 
 There are wizards and dwarves with beards, elves, dragons, undead zombies, orcs, and so on. In 
 GW, you can only play as a human, but don't expect wizards with beards, orcs and elves. You'll 
 meet dwarves, dragons, zombies, and so on, but don't expect the same style as WoW. It's much more 
 of a realistic fantasy style, if you get what I mean. This was by far the only disappointment I 
 got when I first played GW in the summer of 2005. But this misery will end soon enough, trust me.
 
  
  The story of GW (now known as Guild Wars Prophecies) is long and complicated, and fun to play through. 
 The game starts with your character creation. You have to be a human, but you can choose your character 
 class ('profession') between warrior / monk (healer) / mesmer (illusionist) / necromancer (general 
 creepiness) / elementalist (mage) / Ranger (nature-obsessed archer) . This choice determines your 
 outer looks. Later on, you'll be able to combine your first profession with a second one. Choose 
 wisely, for you'll have to defend a country, fight a civil war, defend another country, defeat 
 a corrupted army, continue the civil war, end old conflicts and eventually face the big evil boss. 
 But for the time being, you're a simple human being in the Kingdom of Ascalon, ready to be recruited 
 in the national Vanguard to defend this beautiful land against an army of wild Tauren-like beasts, 
 called the Charr. But for now, there are only a few of them south of the defending Great Northern 
 Wall, so you can safely complete your tutorial. This is called Pre-Searing Ascalon and it takes 
 place in one day, no matter how much time you spend here. I suggest not to proceed before you've 
 reached level 5. When you're ready you can accept a specific quest from the commander. After that, 
 there is no turning back. That very evening, the Charr take down the Great Northern Wall and destroy 
 the entire land of Ascalon. 2 years later, you find yourself in the destroyed Ascalon City. This 
 is where the real game begins...
  
  GAMEPLAY: Great and fun hack 'n slash, but they could have given us a bit more freedom while moving 
 during combat. When you play GW you'll see why. 9 out of 10.
  
  GRAPHICS: Technologically, this would have deserved a 10/10, and even though the art style was 
 a tiny bit of a disappointment to all who had expected a WoW clone, beautiful graphics, and a 9 
 out of 10.
  
  SOUND: Realistic sound effects and beautiful music composed by Jeremy Soule, one of the most famous 
 game music composers. But when you've been playing GW for a long time, the music starts to sound 
 a bit too familiar. In human language: the same tunes, over and over again. 9 out of 10.
  
  VALUE: It's a long RPG that will keep you busy for months, even years. Guaranteed replay value. 
 10 out of 10.
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT: I admit it. I'm a great fan of GW. There are a few downsides, but if you get to 
 accept them, GW is going to give you a great online RPG experience. Trust me. 10 out of 10.
  
  Note to cynists: This game is not like WoW. It's not meant to be like WoW. If you don't mind, 
 feel free to play this game (Factions and Nightfall are good as well, but Prophecies is the real 
 classic of the series.) Later on, you can continue the Prophecies story with the series' first 
 true expansion, Eye of the North. And in 2008-2009, Guild Wars 2 lets you return to the old lands 
 of Prophecies, hundreds of years later. -- If you only want generic MMORPG's, wait for Guild Wars 
 2, which will basically combine GW with WoW. Trust me, that game is gonna ROCK. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cecx
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 27, 2005 5:18 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars takes the things that make up an MMO, tweaks them, and it turns out to be a great game. 
 
  In Guild Wars you start out by either creating a Maxed out PvP character which can only be used 
 for PvP combat, or a role-playing character which can be used in both the role-playing and PvP 
 portions of the game. 
  When traveling about the world you may do it alone, with henchmen (Computer controlled characters) , 
 or with a party (parties can be up to 4 players to start with, but then go up to about 8) . The 
 only place where you can see thousands of other players is in the cities or outposts. Cities are 
 filled with traders, collectors, and crafters. Guild Wars has a good rich story to it and the quests 
 are enjoyable to do (especially with a party) .
  
  Gameplay: Hard to switch targets, and the bots can be stupid at times. But the controls are very 
 good and it is easy to maneuver around the world.
  Graphics: Very detailed and beautiful looking worlds. (And I'm running it on a pretty low-end PC)
 
  Sound: The music is beautiful and the combat sounds are realistic.
  Value: This is one game that is hard to quit playing. VERY HARD
  
  Guild Wars is a terrific 
 game and I'm sure I will be playing it for a LONG time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ross131313
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 26, 2005 3:57 am PT
Review:  All i can say is, FINALLY. 
  
  I am a new-generation gamer. No, i never played Diablo. No, I have yet to pick up Grim Fandango. 
 In fact, I just started gaming hardcore 5 years ago.
  
  For the record, I have never played a real MMORPG to date. (Runescape DOES NOT count!!) The premise 
 for a MMORPG seemed interesting enough, But the montly fee always made me cringe. Actualy PAYING 
 to PLAY a game? My 10 Year old Self couldn't believe it.
  
  Fast Forward 5 Years
  
  Then, this little beauty called Guild Wars rolled around. And all I can say is, Gaming Bliss Defined.
 
  
  Gameplay --
  MMORPG goodness to the last drop. A few features missing tho, that you might expect to see.
  
 
  Such as, Free roaming Zones that anyone can access, A decent user-run trade system. And Some general 
 Adventuring/Free roaming is restricted. And sadly, No treasure filled duengons : ( .
  
  But what the game does have, It does it well. The rush or running around in partys of 8 people, 
 Taking Down LVL 20 Drakes and reaping the sweet, sweet rewards of a Quest well Done are hard to 
 duplicate.
  
  From your humble beggining in Beautiful Ascalon, Before the Searing, The game is ingenously laid 
 out and Designed 
  It is very intersting how GW implements story into the game. Through out the Map you will Find 
 Story Mission's. That, as expected, advance the games decent plot and take you to new Lands (Sometimes 
 other wise restricted)
  Here is where you will notice a slight, nagging flaw. The cutscenes Have no lip sync. And their 
 are quite a few cutscenes that seem rather boring/forced. But the overall plot is still Fairly 
 intriuging.
  
  It is Quite hard to "Solo it" in this game. You have a few underpowered and slightly stupid Henchmen 
 you can take with you into the games instanced zones. But Partying with real people makes for so 
 much more enjoyable experience. 
  
  The community is not the most welcome in this game, Nor is it forgiving. Many people will try to 
 rip you off, and will suddenly dissconnect from Quest mid-game. Leaving you to fight by yourself.
 
  
  But with in the partying system i have a few quaffs, First off, it is unexpectdly buggy and at 
 times agrivating. You think after haveinh an OPEN beta Test with THOUSANDS of people area net would 
 have Fixed this. But never the less it is manageable.
  
  Graphics --
  The game is VERY beautiful for being on such a large scale. The enviroments are quite large, And 
 the load times are rather minimal. The charactar models are also very well done, with many animated 
 parts. Over all i would say this is the best looking MMORPG to date.
  
  Sound --
  This is where the gaem is ratehr underpowering. The ingame battle sounds are above Par, But the 
 backround music is to soft and not memorable at all. The voice actors are also rather weak at times.
 
  
  Value -- 
  I can see myself playing 100 Hours of this game. Not only is the main quest quite an adventure 
 in itself/ The PvP parts are VERY well done. Hours upon hours of enjoyment await.
  
  Overall --
  A must have for your collection, Truly an experience to behold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spenta
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 25, 2005 2:57 am PT
Review:  There are many ways to describe what Guild Wars is. The best one that I like is its an online single-player 
 game. 
  
  When you are in a city or town area, you are emeresed in a traditional massive online environment. 
 However once you step outside of the city gates the world is "instanced" just for you and/or your 
 party. 
  
  This means that you wont have to fight with other players or groups for the named or boss mobs. 
 It means you dont have to run from zone to zone to find a camp that a) isn't already taken and b) actually 
 gives enough exp/loot to offset the huge time sink involved in getting it. It means a lot of other 
 good and a couple bad things but I think you get the point. Those used to the truer MMO's will 
 have to get used to not seeing anyone else along the way during your travels but you will.
  
  The game is unique in that there is an actual involved timeline that does infact end. There 
 are two main versians so to speak a Role-Play mode and a pure PvP mode. Both are richly involved 
 and can offer near endless hours of gameplay without ever the drudge of "camping" for an item or 
 mob or exp.
  
  The graphics are gorgous, truly must be seen on the screen to appreciate. The colors are rich and 
 full without looking cartoonish. (WoW)
  
  At the moment without any expansions released one drawback of the game is that there is not a very 
 involved character creation and most of the classes look the same due to limited offerings in armor 
 and gear. Dont look to hard at that though, with less emphasis on armor the game is kept pure and 
 about what these games are supposed to be about and that is killing and getting new spells and 
 levels.
  
  This is a must have game of anyone who loves the rpg genre especially if you've been playing EQ 
 for the last 5 years and are just plain sick of all the MMORPG bs.
  
  Grab this game, you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 23, 2005 1:15 pm PT
Review:  For a person who played a lot of RPG before but never entered the world of MMORPG this is a terrific 
 introduction. At first you get confused with all the people hanging around wondering what to do 
 with it all, but after a while when you get aided you see it clearly.
  A big plus is that there is no monthly fee. One could hope that other producers and developers 
 will learn their lesson.
  
  The graphic sure helps with the atmosphere. I would never belive the game actually would look like 
 the screenshots, but it sure did. It's big and the variaton and rich detail of the different enviroments 
 is extremly well done.
  I which the sound would differ more. The music is kind of looping, but fills it's function. I have 
 no complaints on the effects.
  There is different ways to get to the great equipment. Finding, buying, mending, creating stuff... 
 you get it. It took a some reading and asking around before I figured it all out but now I have 
 found the road to get to the ultimate outfit and weaponry.
  
  This buy I will never regret. From the first hour until now I feel rich and that the money was 
 well spent.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AustinOnline
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2005 5:11 am PT
Review:  Are you an MMO fan? Do you hate MMOs? Which ever one you answered doesn't matter. Your still likely 
 to have a great time with Guild Wars. Because playing with others is your option. Making a Guild 
 is your option. So no playing with others is needed. But if your friends DO play or if you wanna 
 make online friends, that perfectly ok. Because with the District system, you can be in one play 
 and click the district you wanna go to.
  
  But lets get to the graphics. The graphics are to me equivalant to World Of Warcraft. You can go 
 anywhere you want! No place is forbidden! I zoomed in as far as I could and you can see every stich 
 in their shirts!
  
  The mobility on this game rules! Like I was just saying, you can go everywhere and do everything! 
 No place is blocked off, and there is no hard air, lol, so no walking then all of a sudden stopping 
 because it wont let you through!
  
  This is an RPG all over! And thats ok, because thats how I like it! If you dont have Guild Wars, 
 get it now and add 'Logon Mitchell' to your friends list and drop me a line. I know the $50 may 
 be a bit much, but come on guys, this doesn't have a $15 monthly fee either! This game is the best 
 monthly fee free MMO you'll find! And it's worth it. Hey, if you have a credit card you can go 
 to www. guildwars. com and buy the game for $40 instead of $50 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowcuz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 21, 2005 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars isnt your typical MMORPG. It doesnt focus on grinding for levels and items but instead 
 focuses more on how well you use your skills and how well you cooperate with your teammates. The 
 PvP is where the game is at and also one of the best.
  
  Story: The Kingdom of Ascalon needs a hero to battle evil, and guess what? Its You!
  
  Graphics: 
 Guild Wars looks simply amazing. The world is nicely detailed and it looks like your in a fantasy 
 world with its lush environments. Each character has their own distinct looks and fully customizable. 
 Enemies are also nicely done and vary in many shapes and sizes. The game still looks great on low-end 
 PC.
  
  Gameplay: The combat is fast-paced and fun to watch. The learning curve is pretty steep and it 
 would be sort of hard for novices. You have many different skills but can only carry 8 with you 
 during battle, so you have to decide which best suits you. There are many missions to complete, 
 skills to unlock, and items to obtain. You will need to play with your PvE character to unlock 
 skills and items for your PvP character. However, you can make a pre-made PvP character (which i 
 advise not to do) . PvP is where Guild Wars shines. You can battle other guilds, team up with random 
 people to fight another team, or battle in the hall of heroes to get into the underworld. PvP isnt 
 about being able to overpower your opponents with your level and equipment. In PvP every character 
 is level 20 and in order to beat the enemy you have to work well with your teammates.
  
  Music/Sound: Theres nothing really special about the sound/music in Guild Wars. The music is pretty 
 decent but can get repetitive at times.
  
  Value: You want to play an MMORPG but dont want to pay monthly? Well, Guild Wars has that covered. 
 Even though Guild Wars isnt exactly an MMO but is in the same league. If you have a decent PC and 
 like online RPGs then get Guild Wars, is simple as that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 21, 2005 10:23 pm PT
Review:  One of the biggest complaints of Massive Monthly Online Role-Playing Games (MMORPG) is the issue 
 of monthly fees needed to be paid each month to be able to play. Monthly prices of the different 
 games can be anywhere from $5.00 to $15.00 a month, which does not even touch upon the fact that 
 you need to actually buy the game first to be able to play it which can cost upwards to $50.00. 
 But why all this talk of MMOPRG when Guild Wars cant really even be considered one? Because its 
 the next best thing that incorporates almost everything from a MMORPG without making the players 
 pay a fee each month. What can be better than that to the community that pours hours of game time 
 each month to play the developers product? AreaNet released Guild Wars on April 26th of 2005 giving 
 the public what theyve been asking for. A massive online game where players could meet friends 
 and go off adventuring into vast lands of a world unknown to them. 
  
  Although Guild Wars cant be considered a MMORPG, AreaNet would like to think of their latest game 
 as a Computer Online Role-Playing Game (CORPG) . Guild Wars offers players a vast fantasy world 
 to explore with their friends and gives them multiple unique professions to specialize in during 
 the course of twenty-four plus missions and hundreds of quests that spread out over a long story 
 driven campaign. With each mission having a bonus objective and most quests having sub-quests, 
 Guild Wars campaign can take up many hours of a gamers life, but thats only really touching 
 upon one aspect of the game. The campaign and multiplayer involved in Guild Wars could be considered 
 one game in itself, but its actually only half of the actual game. When starting a new character 
 each time, youre given the choice of two ways to play the game, through the Role-Playing mode, 
 and through the PvP mode of the game. The Role-Playing (RP) half of the game, as somewhat described 
 above, is where players will unlock each professions unique and elite skills whether they pay 
 for them, find them, or steal them from a boss creature. Once these skills are obtained from the 
 RP part of the game, theyre unlocked in the PvP portion of the game where the player can join 
 teams/groups of fellow players to battle it out in arena battles. 
  
  What makes Guild Wars different from a MMORPG is the aspect of instanced zones. The easy way to 
 explain it is when youre in a village or town, youre in a district. Now, youre able to change 
 your district to whichever you want to meet up with friends or whatever, but once you leave a town 
 or village, youre zoned into your own instance of the game. The only other players youll see 
 in these instances are the ones you brought with you in your group. If you forgot to add your 
 friends to your group, you can go back into the village and change the district to the one your 
 friends located in and regroup with them. The amount of people you can have in your group changes 
 over the course of the game from four people to eight person groups. Missions are much the same 
 way. Your group leader chooses when to start the mission and once its started, your group is instanced 
 into your own mission. MMORPGs are not instanced in this way. Youll meet players all across the 
 missions and towns. What Guild Wars instancing helps is to stop the campers, the people who sit 
 by a spot where monsters are regenerating and continuously kill them for experience and gold. In 
 Guild Wars, in your instanced spot, what monsters you kill stay dead until you decide to quit or 
 go back into a zone. A different approach then most MMORPGs, but in a way, better. One nice thing 
 with Guild Wars is the ability to fast travel to any town/village youve already been. Any time, 
 whether youre out adventuring or even during a mission, youre allowed to travel to a village 
 youve been to just by clicking the location on your overall map. This will of course take away 
 your progress while adventuring, and youll have to start the mission over, but in some spots, 
 when things are getting rough, youll need this nice feature to Guild Wars.
  
  Death is dealt by giving penalties to the player after their death. Each time the player dies, 
 and is either resurrected by a fellow player, or resurrected at a shrine area, he is given an overall 
 15% penalty to his player stats and skills. This penalty can be worked off by gaining more experience 
 or zoning back to a town or village, but it can also build up to a 60% penalty if your character 
 continually dies over and over again. Your character retains all of their equipment and items, 
 thus making it impossible for other players to pick up or scavenge any of your items which is nice. 
 In talking about dropped items, when adventuring or playing through missions with henchmen, items 
 that are dropped by monsters and bosses are assigned to different characters on a random basis 
 and thus can only be picked up by those selected players, but after a certain amount of time has 
 passed by, other players can then pick up these items. This eliminates the scavenger who waits 
 for everyone to kill the enemies and then proceeds to run up and take all of the dropped items 
 while everyones still fighting for their lives. 
  
  There are six professions in the game being Warrior, Monk, Ranger, Elementalist, Necromancer, and 
 Mesmer. While going through the RP part of the game, youre able to have a primary and secondary 
 class, thus enabling the player to unlock two class skills in one play through of the missions 
 and quests in the game. Each class is dramatically different from the other and each pair of classes, 
 while partnered together, can be played extremely different from the other. The combinations in 
 Guild Wars may seem small with only having six professions, but the skill and strategy involved 
 in playing each class, whether its the primary or secondary can be different in and of itself. 
 Pairing up the different classes in both the RP and PvP portion of the game can be a learning experience 
 dealing with knowing which skills to assign to your character, having an allowance of eight each 
 time you leave a town/village on the map of Ascalon or go into a PvP arena. Once youve zoned into 
 an instance, you wont be able to change a skill youve selected, so this makes you choose what 
 kind of playing style you want to have for that particular mission/quest/adventuring trip. This 
 also makes the PvP more challenging and makes players strategize their playing styles more each 
 time they go into PvP matches.
  
  But lets not forget about what the actual games name is, being Guild Wars. Guilds are a major 
 feature of AreaNets newest release. Once youve collected enough gold (2,000 gold) , you can purchase 
 a cape and start a guild. From there, youre able to invite your friends and different players 
 around the world to join your guild. In the beginning, guilds are mostly meant for finding adventuring 
 groups easier and building up your strategies during the first few Arena battle areas. Once you 
 and your guild mates have progressed through the game and won a Celestial Sigil through guild battles, 
 youll be able to buy a Guild Hall for your guild for the right price (65,000 gold) . This may seem 
 like a lot of money, but having a nice large open area for your guild members to meet anytime during 
 the game is nice. 
  
  Graphics wise, to simply put it, this game looks amazing! The developers of this game have taken 
 a lot of time to make each area in this game look different from the other and to make the atmosphere 
 in Guild Wars simply beautiful. Whether youre in the scarred Ascalon or crafting weapons and armor 
 up in the Ice Mountains by Drokners Forge. Each area of the game is detailed and looks great. 
 The characters are detailed and look different with every piece of armor that have on whether its 
 scalemail or tattoos upon the body of a monk to give them extra energy for their skills and powers. 
 Bosses and monsters throughout the campaign story look greatly detailed and the animations in which 
 your character and their enemies move look smooth and have nice fluidity. Each different profession 
 has its own type of armor that can be found and made throughout the different villages and towns 
 of the large world. In an age of gaming where graphics can make or break a game, Guild Wars shines.
 
  
  The sound in the game is also down nicely. From the musical score playing at the menu screen to 
 the epic score delivered during the missions and quests, youll have a pleasure listening to your 
 headphones or speakers the whole time youre loaded in. The ambient and atmospheric sounds also 
 make you, the player, feel as if youre ravaging through multitudes of enemies as you try to purge 
 the world clean of monsters and beasts. Whether youre on the shores by Fishermans Haven or in 
 the volcanic ashes of Hells Precipice, youll be hearing a different tune that only enhances the 
 experience of being in that location.
  
  One thing that can plague a lot of online games is the loading times. Whether youre just starting 
 the game up or loading into a new zone, loading times can make or break any game in the market 
 today with players attention spans and patience both decreasing at a fast rate and this is where 
 Guild Wars excels. The amount of time it takes you to get from your windows desktop to your character 
 thats already made in-game somewhere pretty much depends on how fast you can type your password. 
 It literally takes Guild Wars seconds to load up into the game and also into different zones. This 
 simply puts Guild Wars up above any other online game because of the ability to jump into the game 
 for a quick fifteen minutes when you want instead of having to wait five or more of those minutes 
 loading.
  
  Unlike other online role-playing games though, Guild Wars has a lower level cap than most. The 
 cap is set at level twenty right now and no word has been said about raising it anytime near in 
 the future. Does this hinder players from making huge powerful characters? Not at all. The cap 
 makes the game more interesting in many different ways. It makes you, the player, make more strategies 
 than are regularly needed in other online games. Instead of having a level 25 character getting 
 wasted by a level 40 character, in Guild Wars, you have to watch yourself no matter what level 
 you are. In arena battles, everyones open game to anyone else. Its all about the strategy you 
 bring into the battle. The skills that you choose beforehand will define your playing style and 
 strategy in the coming arena/guild battle. Also talking about limits, youre allowed to have up 
 to four characters under one account in Guild Wars. This may seem small in comparison to other 
 online games, but be rest assured that youll spend more time detailing and defining these characters 
 instead of wasting time across ten plus characters. Having the option to be able to PvP from the 
 start is a nice feature in Guild Wars and just brings more to the table.
  
  Overall, Guild Wars will provide any type of gamer with hours upon hours of entertainment. Whether 
 youre a player who likes to play for quick spots here and there, or someone who spends countless 
 hours each night building up each character, Guild Wars can provide you with lots of fun, adventurous, 
 strategic gaming hours that are totally free. No monthly fee to play this massive online game which 
 AreaNet is constantly updating with new items/armor/weapons and soon, two large new areas to explore. 
 Be rest assured that youll get your moneys worth whether you pay $50. oo or $70.00 for this title. 
 With the amazing graphics, great story, and addicting playing style, Guild Wars is a game that 
 everyone should try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: onuracengiz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 15, 2005 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a Competitive Online Role Playing Game with an emphasis on rewarding player skill. 
 In large head-to-head guild battles, cooperative group combat, and single player missions, players 
 will explore a fantasy world while pursuing professions and acquiring skills to develop their own 
 personalized character. Unique items, special abilities, and a wide variety of skills add meaningful 
 value for the player and for their comrades.
  Guild Wars, developed by ArenaNet, is a radical departure from your current MMOG offerings. First 
 and foremost, theres no subscription fee, so Junior doesnt have to keep bugging Mommy and Daddy 
 for their credit card to play; instead, the company is planning on delivering an expansion every 
 six months in the hopes that players will keep the development process going by purchasing the 
 expansions.
  The other way it differentiates itself from current games is by having competitive PvP, similar 
 to Dark Age of Camelot, but their focus is on making player skill, not player level, the deciding 
 factor in resolving combat. In Camelot, a level 50 player can easily wipe a level 30, but in Guild 
 Wars they want the level 30 to stand a chance.
  The way theyve done this is by making the game system akin to Magic the Gathering. Youll adventure 
 through the lands collecting spells and spell gems; once you level, these can be used to get extra 
 abilities. Before you enter a combat area, you decide what spells you want in your hot-bars and 
 load them. Thats where the similarity to MtG lies, in creating a balanced deck that gives you 
 the most options. A higher level character might have more options, but they can only go into combat 
 with the same number of spells loaded as you can.
  To paraphrase Henry Ford, you can play any race you want, as long as it is human. The story is 
 that humans have been enslaved and are doing battle with the slavers and the monsters surrounding 
 them. Since the game has a PvP component as well, its a safe bet that humankind hasnt changed 
 much and still likes to fight other humans.
  The graphics, from the player and monster models, to the vast terrain and particle effects, is 
 impressive.
  One of their goals is to reduce what they term to be the boring stuff in the current MMOG offerings: 
 grinding to get levels, long transportation times and camping. They are attempting to reduce the 
 treadmill by making the combat strategically challenging and interesting  easier said than done 
  and travel times are eliminated by giving you the ability to teleport yourself to the beginning 
 of any quest youve unlocked. Im a little leery of this myself  part of the immersion is the 
 sense of scale traveling across the world brings.
  They are designing the game for both solo and team play, with mission areas for each type of player. 
 Im pleased to see solo content going into what could be taken as group only game. A lot of people 
 just want to play for an hour or so before they need to run, and having content people can solo 
 is great. Youll be grouping during the bulk of the game though, which is fine as the point to 
 these games is the social aspect.
  The underlying technology is interesting as well. Firstly, you don't have to worry about what server 
 all your friends are on, as all of the servers work together to create a single, virtual world. 
 The content is also streamed  the initial install is quite small and the additional content is 
 then streamed down when you access it. While you might get a hit when you first download it, but 
 its then cached for the next time you need it.
  what I saw impressed me. Guild Wars looks like it will do an excellent job at catering to the fans 
 of BlizzardNet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnDeAd_FuRbY
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 15, 2005 8:32 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the greatest online rpg i have ever played. It feels like Diablo 2 but plays 
 more like Everquest only without money sapping monthly fees. Some cool new aspects of Guild Wars 
 include salvage items and item crafting. You can buy a salvage kit from a local merchant and when 
 some enemies die they drop salvage items which you salvage to make armor and stuff. Some cities 
 have missions that you can form a party and complete it for items, experience, and to move forward 
 in the story. There are six different proffesions and thirty different profession combinations 
 with hundreds of different skills make each character unique. The arena and guild wars (hence the 
 name)
  are really what make this game great. If you play through with a role-playing character you can 
 unlock armor, skills, upgrades, and runes for a pvp character that starts at level 20 but can only 
 play in arenas using the things you've unlocked. All of these roll into a great game with no monthly 
 fees! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rburnett123
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 15, 2005 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Guildwars is enjoyable for the first character you level up. The PVE aspect is surprisingly entertaining 
 for a "PVP game"; however, you will soon become bored as you have to farm for materials and elite 
 skills that are required to be competitive in PVP.
  
  The tournament style of PVP was enjoyable for a couple of weeks and then quickly became boring 
 as you realize its the same fight over, and over, and over. There is nothing to be gained by winning 
 the PVP tournaments other than the "look at me" factor.
  
  Bottom line: Fun for a couple of weeks (80-100 hours) . The price you pay for this entertainment 
 is actually in line for a standalone RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkSauron
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2005 4:32 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars takes many of the best MMORPG styles and combines them all in one game for NO monthly 
 fee. Althoughit is refer to as a CCORPG (Competitive Cooperative Online Role-Playing Game) it still 
 plays very much like a MMORPG. It's also not your original play it a weak then play somethibng 
 else type of game. Even though level cap is 20 you can continue on and get more skill points. When 
 I first heard of this game I thought i'll get it because it has to be better than Runescape and 
 its free but after I played it awhile i wouldn't mind much for an online fee the game is AMAZING. 
 The gameplay was really cool especiall the PVPing in your PVP character. In the game you get 2 
 types of characters Roleplaying and PVP in your roleplaying you play through the story and do missions 
 but in PvP you fight other players in tournaments and guild battles. 
  The graphics are also one of the best in Online RPGs. The explosive scenerys, the detailed character 
 models, etc... Another thing I liked about this game was your choice of characters where you can 
 combine 2 types. There are Monks, Elementalists, Rangers, Warriors, Necromancers, and Mersmers. 
 For me I am a ranger/elementalists so i can use my bow skill and my pet along with my firery storm 
 and ice wind. The sound is also very good but to me I have to turn off my volume because it just 
 gets annyong after awhile. The replay value may not be the greatest but the game is still fun to 
 play on every level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeorgeTopouria
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2005 10:33 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars starts off with a tremendous introduction telling of a war between the mighty kingdom 
 of Ascalon and the horrible Charr. After the invasion of Charr into Ascalon, the Almighty King 
 of Ascalon commands to gather the bravest and smartest heroes to assist defending his nearly fallen 
 city. As proposed, you are one of the heroes, and you step into the kingdom of Ascalon where your 
 story begins. 
  At first, you carry out some minor missions, like delivering messages and annihilating enemy patrols, 
 but after some time, you are granted missions of superior importance, which will lead you through 
 out the intriguing plot.
  
  Speaking of the graphics side of the game, it's yet the most wonderfully graphics ever emerged 
 inside a MMORPG. Easily speaking, Guild Wars has the most impressive graphics ever, since all of 
 it's details are polished till the very top notch and the characters also shine with breathtaking 
 design.
  
  The sound side of this game is also wonderfully created, all environment sound effects are remarkably 
 detailed, and the character's voices are greatly voiced. The music is also pitched to the high 
 mark, it's masterfully delievered and greatly composed.
  
  All of this exceptional pros make Guild Wars the best choice for MMORPG fans and for any gamer 
 that enjoys exceptional gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hugo30
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 10, 2005 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Wheb I first heard of Guild Wars, I was excited. The fact that it was a MMORPG without any monthly 
 fee thrilled me, and when my brother bought World of Warcraft, I was looning even more for my first 
 own Onlene-RPG. The 26th April, the game at last was in store at my local game shop, and after 
 I had runned there to buy it, I played the rest of the afternoon, and the rest of the night. So 
 I've continued every day since, and I'm still not tired of Fleeing from the betraytus (is it spelled 
 like that?) White Mantle or slaying the wrethless Charr. This game is absolutly amasing, and I 
 recomend anyone owning a computer to buy it, not only because of the free monthly fee, but also 
 for the tremendous graphics, the perfect music (made by Jeremy Soule, probably the best Game-Music 
 compositour in the world) and the great match between PVP and RPG.
  
  And by the way, it is better than WoW =)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dzearing
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 27, 2006 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Here's the deal. Guild Wars is the first game in which I've felt comfortable asking complete strangers 
 to play the game coop with me. And that multiplayer component coupled with new content every so 
 often will add replay value to the game that other new games like HL2 just can't offer. That about 
 sums it up.
  
  Gameplay - amazingly balanced game, doesn't seem like some classes are significantly better than 
 others. I would say that targeting individual enemies to attack does become a bit tedious and there 
 isn't enough variety in the spells.
  
  Graphics - BEAUTIFUL. I personally find them far superior to HL2 except for the lack of complex 
 facial animation and physics. Every frame is practically artwork. Guys at work spend time in the 
 game just collecting screenshots of neat things they see.
  
  Sound - a little underwhelming, would have liked 7.1 speaker support but doesn't seem to be there. 
 Music however is EXCELLENT.
  
  Value - you can't beat a game at this calibre not having a monthly fee. stunning.
  
  Tilt - 
 this game is a lot like Morrowind, except all the really annoying things aren't there, and it really 
 centers around multiplayer. This is really a groundbreaking experience that I haven't tasted since 
 playing ultima online betas years ago. (though i didn't get into the pay monthly games like everquest 
 and such.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seteger
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 7, 2005 6:11 pm PT
Review:  I come to MMORPGs as a relative "noob." CoH was my first on-line experience, and I stayed with 
 it the longest (almost a year) . Eventually, though, I got tired of all the "same ol', same ol'" 
 combat and repetitive missions and tried WoW. WoW lasted about two months for me. Once you get 
 over the neat environments and classes, things just get boring all over again (hunt this, collect 
 that, kill, kill, kill) . Where's the role-playing? Where's the long-term depth and community?
 
  
  Guild Wars is NOT the answer to those questions. It does, however, take everything that becomes 
 boring about typical MMORPGs and make it better, faster, FUNNER. It is a boiled-down, nearly perfected 
 distillation of the combat-heaviness of WoW and company with little attempt to be a "role-playing" 
 game. In so doing, it is much better than WoW and its brothers because it's more pure and more 
 focused.
  
  There's a still a hunger among older gamers like me for an on-line game that truly makes you inhabit 
 various characters, interact with a large world, and make crucial, tailored decisions during an 
 epic, on-going story, all with in-character players who share this desire for fun gameplay, combat 
 balanced with campaign, and vivid story-telling. But if you're NOT going to do this, why pretend? 
 Make your game what it is and do it as well as you can. That, in a nutshell, is Guild Wars' accomplishment.
 
  
  Everybody kicks butt. EVERYBODY. Sure, you'll get killed fast and often at first as you probe around 
 the arena for the first time, but when you begin to dabble with different "professions," you'll 
 see the system is very rock-paper-scissors and everyone has the chance to beat anyone, with enough 
 experience and savvy, of course. Actually, the game feels like Street-Fighter had a child with 
 Yu-Gi-Oh ---you collect new "skills" to use in combat, decide what goes on your limited skill bar 
 (think "deck") , but then use your skills with quick reflexes and basic arcade acuity. It's addictive. 
 You'll tinker through different combinations of skills, try different combat strategies, and then 
 return to the rpg-like missions to try to get better gear and even better skills.
  
  The story is actually not bad. If you compare it to any higher-rated stand-along rpg (BG, KOTOR, 
 even Jade Empire) , it's a shallow story. But for an action game, which is how I prefer to see GW, 
 the story is just decent enough to make you want to proceed. The environments vary as you go, the 
 enemies are standard but interesting, and having the option to use computer-controlled "henchmen" 
 for teammates makes solo-ing not just tolerable but fairly fun. Don't buy this game for the rpg 
 story, is all.
  
  I love having the option to solo at will. GW provides that in spades with the instanced maps and 
 henchmen. 
  
  Now, add insta-click travel to major towns, kill-steal-free combat, a punishment-free death system, 
 balanced classes, complete freedom to switch to ANY server at will, a many-possibilities-available, 
 but limited-actions (over a hundred skills to acquire and choose from, but only eight at a time) , 
 and NO MONTHLY FEES ---ok, you NEED to try this game. 
  
  Guild Wars doesn't revolutionize on-line rpgs. It just beats them at their own game, subtracting 
 the pretension that they're doing otherwise, by creating a much faster, more exciting, more balanced, 
 infinitely more addictive gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khraiven
Rating: 2.8
Date: Jun 7, 2005 2:21 pm PT
Review:  I've been pvp'ing in MMO's and FPS games for many, many years. Naturally I was looking forward 
 to a game built for "GUILD WARS". Having commited to WoW, I still bought GW with the intention 
 to play at work, get in some short spurts of fun. I've put in many hours, waiting for the "fun" 
 to happen, never to be found. I can no longer even play at work, I get more enjoyment out of my 
 work itself.
  
  While the game engine itself is quite cool (coming from a senior developer) , especially the patching 
 system, the game is utterly mind numbing. Everything from the character system (not talking looks) , 
 to the lack of options, to the arcade-style fighting, the game is just boring. Very uneventful 
 combat system, not much run'n'gun, it's mostly stand there and click sequence of keys, yay. 
  
  The thought of having 8v8 fights was very appealing, I have no interest in having massive guild 
 and love the thought of small organized fights. Just a shame this game is all bark, no bite. The 
 lasting appeal of this game is horrid.
  
  Does the game have potential? If for no other reason, because it has a great engine and patching 
 system, I'd say the game could mature. But understanding many of the design flaws behind the game, 
 I am very confident this will never be a GREAT game.
  
  The only thing I'm more dissappointed with then the game is that high ratings and reviews this 
 game gets. You people are out of your minds. Hope you continue to enjoy your "happy world", no 
 offense intended.
  
  All bark, no bite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: en-z-io
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2005 9:30 pm PT
Review:  When you first open up the game you get to create your character. You choose from six different 
 classes (Mesmer, Elementalist, Warrior, Ranger, Necromancer, and Monk) and you also choose between 
 being a Male or a Female.
  
  When you first enter the game world your in the pre-searing area, or the area before you really 
 get into the game. Once you enter the searing you'll have so much fun.
  
  I have currently beaten the singleplayer mission with one of my characters (Warrior/Monk) , and 
 I am on the road to beating it with my second character (Monk/Elementalist) . There are so many 
 side quests, and missions to do you'll be playing non-stop for a few days. 
  
  The PvP is really quite good, in the earlier stages you just fight in arenas with random groups, 
 but as you progress farther and farther into the game you find that you can build groups beforehand. 
 
  
  There really isn't a bad character that you can make, all of them can contribute to a team and 
 make that team succesful.
  
  One of the major problems i have with this is it is really hard to find a good group. The majority 
 of groups you get during the game are usually pretty bad. People go wandering off doing their own 
 thing, they go ahead and fight when no-one else is ready, etc. 
  
  Another problem is the Henchemen (NPC fighters) don't really have good AI. They sometimes get stuck 
 in objects, and they just go running around like idiots. 
  
  But other than those problems this game is loads of fun, and one of my favorite online games to 
 date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acidfighter
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 3, 2005 7:09 pm PT
Review:  the most of us that shows first interst for guild wars is for the life time play signature that 
 comes with you can play the game for the rest of you life with out the price of the game to be 
 high.
  the game comes in 2 cd-roms in a verry good looking box a key-map that will show in new players 
 the keys & emotes buttons & 2 verry great manuals that are veery good.
  when install the game & downloading the update files you log on & you create you character in there 
 you have the option of rpg char of a pvp char
  the rpg char is in my opinion the first option for everyone.
  the story of the game is verry 
 good but not the best that we have see in rpg games (in my opinion the best in mmorpg after the 
 wow)
  
  the grfx of the game is verry beautifull with great details on everything that is on your screen,
 
  
  the sound is also good with good speech & music
  
  the gameplay & controls of the game are in the say way that we know from other mmorpg like lineage2 
 so they are verry easy to new players to learn & allready know for the old
  
  now something also that gives points to the game is the verry beautifull & great player vs player 
 that the game got
  the players create teams of 8 members & fight against teams from europe korea & america that way 
 of pvp make the pvp do need good teams & the players to play good the one with the other & that 
 something that makes the game joy for everyone.
  
  my last words about guild wars is that the game is a must have for every rpg fan out there
  & 
 a jem game that will make other mmorpgs to copy some of his futures. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meyer2278
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 2, 2005 9:18 pm PT
Review:  By far the greatest part about guild wars is the fact that it is free. The RPG side of the game 
 is solid in almost every aspect. The storyline is a bit shaky and the magic just does not have 
 the flare you want from an RPG. For me, one of the main things I enjoy about an RPG is the magic 
 and annihilating an enemy with a new powerful spell. Now to be honest I dont play games for a 
 living so I have not "beaten" the game yet, but I dont see the magic getting any more impressive. 
 The storyline is not involving and half the time you will just skip the reading and watch just 
 the cut scenes, once, then you will skip those to if you die and have to do a mission again. Which 
 is what everyone does, its normal, you saw it already, so why watch it again? An RPG should make 
 you want to watch it again. 
  
  Graphically speaking Guild Wars is great, the scenery is beautiful and the characters look just 
 as good. Here again though, the spells and magic fall a little short.
  
  Gameplay in Guild Wars is more of a hack and slash then an RPG, which is probably why the magic 
 is not all that. The AI Bots are good for earlier missions but once you get to the last area they 
 get to be pretty useless. On more then one occasion i had to restart a quest because a bot was 
 stuck in a mountain or left behind and still alive and i died causing me to travel back to a city 
 and taking a 30 - 45 min. journey all over again. Once you play with other people though this is 
 not a problem. 
  
  The sound in GW is very good, the music is orchestrated superbly and fits in all the areas it should. 
 The SFX on the other hand are not as good but do just fine.
  
  As far as the value for your money, there is no other RPG that comes close. I personally will never 
 again buy another that charges an online monthly fee. I think this is absolutely absurd. 
  
  All in all GW is a superb game that lives up to the hype and does what it is supposed to do 
 brilliantly. One word of caution though, you had better have many, many hrs. to invest to invest 
 in this game or in four months you will still be at the beginning. This is, for the most part, 
 a good thing. On the other hand if you are looking to do battle against other players in the PVP 
 mode, you will be very weak grasshopper, you will be crushed. You must unlock spells, weapons and 
 items in the RPG part of the game before they are made available to you in PVP. Which is what you 
 will ultimately be wanting to do. If you are an RPG/Online gaming fan, look no further, Guild Wars 
 will be more than enough to tide you over for many months.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shodog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 1, 2005 5:27 am PT
Review:  This game rocks. I watched Greg's review of Guild Wars and it pushed me over the edge to buy the 
 game. My friend plays WoW and I watched him play. The screen has a crazy amount of icons, you can't 
 just build a PvP player, and you have to play monthly. Plus in Guild Wars you can have computer 
 players go with you on missions in case you can't find someone online to help you. Guild Wars runs 
 fantastic, plays fantastic, is addicting, is beautiful, and is alot of fun. I love the game and 
 now am a fan of Online RPGs. I also play alot of Counterstrike Source, which is rocks also. If 
 you are thinking about starting to play a Online RPG, stop thinking and go buy this game. It. F-ing. 
 Rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robbhart
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 1, 2005 12:24 am PT
Review:  If you're a solo-player like me, looking for a great game to follow in the footsteps of Baldur's 
 Gate, Diablo, Dungeon Siege, Neverwinter etc... look no further. Often overlooked in the other reviews: 
 Guild Wars is an excellent solo adventure. The dual-class character selection system really lets 
 you customize an avatar to your gaming style. Couple that with a tutorial that seems like a game 
 world in itself, and you have the makings of a classic.
  
  While GW is multiplayer-oriented, it plays great as a solo game. Sure, you can't save the game, 
 but the regeneration system is generous and allows you multiple chances at a tough objective. 
 
  
  Hiring the right combination of henchmen in town leads to satisfying battles. I'm playing as a 
 Mage [pyromancer] /Ranger that allows me to stand back and deal max damage. By joining up with a 
 healer, a couple of fighters and another mage, we seem to be able to conquer what ever is thrown 
 at us, maybe not the first time, but that is where strategy comes in. As a Ranger, I can bring 
 a pet into the mix and decice whether to increase its attack or increase the power of my spells. 
 True role-playing.
  
  The graphics are great, the lag is very low, even on my measly 1.8 ghz system and no monthly fee. 
 The district system seems to work very well and I feel like I'm playing a solo game.
  
  I think many of the other reviewers were expecting something different. To me, this game ranks 
 up with the best solo RPGs of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JRBottom
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 31, 2005 9:31 pm PT
Review:  That's right, Guild Wars cost absoluetly nadda per month, and it hangs up there with recently released 
 MMORPGs like World of Warcraft.
  
  Gameplay:
  Now, this is my second MMORPG (last one being Diablo II) . I have played WoW, but not enough to 
 know everything. WoW is better, but Guild Wars gives you more than what you would expect from a 
 MMORPG that costs you nothing per month. The gameplay is solid, with every sort of RPG element 
 you can think off.
  
  Innovative is the city and personal map feature. The only way to interact with real life players 
 is by going into a local town or city, which are abundant throughout the absoluetly massive world. 
 Once in a city/town, you can trade or form a party, where you can head out on all sorts of fun 
 and time consuming quests.
  
  Graphics:
  Not the best in the world, but very good. Some of the scenary is just beautiful, especially when 
 you reach Lion's Arch and you are moving in the jungle. The player models are very nice and each 
 type of character has his/her own unqiue traits.
  
  Sound:
  I love the music in this game, along with the variety of sounds you hear in the environment.
 
  
  Value:
  No monthly cost, hours and hours of great fun, only $50 for life, no choice but to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ticktocktick201
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 9, 2006 1:17 pm PT
Review:  This game has an amazing storyline with detailed graphics that puts you back into medeival times. 
 The game is an rpg and you gain statistics. I would recomend this game to serious rpg fans that 
 enjoy a good storyline and online multyplayer games. Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, 
 Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, 
 Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, 
 Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, 
 Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, 
 Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, 
 Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, 
 Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, 
 Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing, Amazing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sicton
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 29, 2005 10:27 pm PT
Review:  Being someone with increasingly small amounts of time on my hands to engage in a bit of games playing, 
 there's always been one major stubbling block when it comes to online role-playing games: cost. 
 From month to month or even day to day I'm not always sure how much freetime I'm going to have 
 available to me so I'm not a fan of paying monthly subscription fees to play one of my favourite 
 genres, the role-player. Having to pay reasonably pricey fees in comparison to the retail cost 
 of a game on a monthly basis just doesn't sit well with someone like me who doesn't have a guaranteed 
 amount of time each month. I want to play games at my own speed but at the same time I want to 
 get my money's worth. 
  
  Thankfully, one of the single best things about Guild Wars is that it is completely free to play 
 online which makes it several times more inviting than the likes of World of Warcraft, Everquest, 
 Lineage II, Dark Age of Camelot, and whatever else. Not only that, Guild Wars uses a fantastic 
 graphics engine that makes it look better than any other MMORPG I've seen to-date. In addition, 
 the gameplay mechanics are simply superb and the story integrated into the online experience is 
 wondrous. The explorable world is also remarkably large and finely crafted and detailed throughout. 
 As you explore, you realise just how large the environment is and they're generally pretty free-roaming 
 for the most part. The guild system, weapons, items and everything else in the game all work extremely 
 cohesively together and the online experience is second-to-none. Everything about Guild Wars is 
 great and it deserves a place in any PC gamer's collection - even for those not overly keen on 
 the genre.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxcobraxx
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2005 8:41 am PT
Review:  lets start off with the game itself
  
  the game shows all the best parts off a MMORPG , the great exploration of this game is massive 
 just think of all of star wars galaxies planets all put together into one game thats how big the 
 map is
  the PvP part is great , u build up your character in Role playing mode then when you goto the PvP 
 mode you get to create & character based on the skills you unlocked in roleplay mode , then use 
 them in PvP battle , this sets you into an arena with other players doing differant match types 
 /w there guild or team of people
  
  the guild part is fun , set up a guild hall , challenge other guild masters and there guilds to 
 fight against you then you have a 'team' fight 
  
  Exploring the games potential i could see this game shows that free is the best way to have a MMORPG 
 , this game is worth buying if your into MMORPG's & if your an action & adventure fan then this 
 game is definatley worth buying , im still loving this game every minute 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chinykian
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 27, 2005 1:54 pm PT
Review:  I'll be honest. I bought Guild Wars because it offers FREE online play. Free online play does not 
 mean that the gameplay is compromised. In fact, I believe this game is as good as any other MMORPGs, 
 if not better.
  
  The RPG portion of game is filled with content, there's tonnes of quests to complete and experience 
 to gain. Furthermore, you can pick this game up pretty easily. This is a game where the user interface 
 is user-friendly. Controlling the character is as easy as abc.
  
  Of course, Guild Wars is centered around PvP, and I have to say is fantastic. You'll find yourself 
 tweaking your character to make him/her fit into your guild; to make him/her the ultimate attacker, 
 interrupter, healer.... etc.
  
  The game, however, has a few problems. Some times you'll find yourself pinned to a wall by NPCs 
 or your pet. One other issue is that there are a lot of 'fetching' quests which you might find 
 repetitive. These flaws are of course, very minor.
  
  To put it simply, Guild Wars is a fantastic game that's worth your money.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fascolik
Rating: 5.7
Date: May 27, 2005 11:51 am PT
Review:  A lot of people were waiting the lunch of Guild Wars, and most of them doesn't like it. Why? The 
 graphic are normal, the gameplay is spicking (even with a good computer) and you don't get all 
 the fun you could get playing World of Warcraft. Maybe GW is not an mmorpg but it's trying to be 
 one in a way smaller server. Guild Wars is not a bad game, but I sweared a lot the time i've played 
 for all the bug of the game. The game is not as great as Gamespot told us, It should be a good 
 idea for you to try it before buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marty50
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 25, 2005 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Main attraction to this game is the absence of a monthly fee. It's why I decided to check out the 
 game. The graphics are astounding, the load times are fast and the game is loads of fun. However 
 the game can ware thin I leave a town and enter the world, there's no one there but me, kind of 
 boring. but at the same time player characters can be beneficial if you are trying to get thru 
 a hard and player characters can help point you in the right direction if you get lost, or help 
 point to more quest. But for no fee I can't grip much. 
  I did enjoy playing the game and if you join up with friends it's not too bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkfear2222
Rating: 9
Date: May 25, 2005 1:38 pm PT
Review:  [5/25/05] I bought the game on Sunday, ive played about 10 hours already... needless to say its 
 a great mmorpg for the fact that it is FREE! No monthly fees. The game is unique in the gameplay 
 and style... its very straight forward so you wont have to spend days figuring out whats going on 
 and how to go about your daily routine. Different than most mmorpgs when your out on the field 
 fighting you will not see anyone else unless they're in your group, so that takes away the chances 
 of being trained or getting loot stolen ;) . I was a bit turned down by this but now that ive played 
 it... you begin to enjoy the feature much more ... you can even get Henchmen to aid you in towns 
 or outposts, so instead of waiting for the long time that you usually do (ex. EverQuest Online 
 Adventures: Frontiers, ive waited for an hour or so for one group) . Your situational awareness 
 is very keen for the fact you have 3 maps to go by and a red dotted line markes the path you have 
 already taken... so as if needed to backtrack or if your looking for something you dont go the wrong 
 way by mistake. All in all the sound is great, gameplay is unique, graphics are splendid and the 
 value and addictiveness is extremely high. 
  
  This is the kind of game where you wont need to spend hours grinding to beat a single boss. You 
 can play it if you have 10-15 minutes while waiting for something or play it for hours on end. 
 If you like rpgs, buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFox2892
Rating: 9
Date: May 24, 2005 8:20 pm PT
Review:  Thi game offers loads of gameplay. I could play this game a long long time on the count of that 
 Ncsoft updates the game with new quests, new items, new maps in pvp mode and new skills. This game 
 is totally worth $50. Obivously the best part is how you don't have to pay a monthly fee. Another 
 cool feature about this game is that you get to be two charachters. You select two masters you 
 want to be. You can be a  and a Mercemer. You can have 8 skills 
 at a time out of over 100 including updates. You can create 5 players max. Of course you candlete 
 them if you want to. Role playing mode is surprisingly great along with pvp mode. I actually like 
 role playing more then pvp. In pvp mode its 4 on 4. They have capture the flag and just orginal 
 fighting 4 vs. 4. Thye have at least 5 maps in pvp. The graphics in the game are amazing. You can 
 be up to level 20 max but who knows it can change in the future. This game is a must buy for MMORG 
 players. I can defintly see myself playing this game two years from now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guruofchem
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2005 5:28 pm PT
Review:  This is the MMO game that non-obsessive players like me have been waiting for. No recurring fees, 
 enjoyable variety of gameplay (PvP and PvE, with class and skill combinations too numerous to contemplate) , 
 minimal and non-intrusive downloads, and beautiful gameplay and graphics make this my game of choice 
 for many weeks to come. I love the flexible nature of the skill system in particular; characters 
 can fit exactly the style you want to play, and the refund system prevents the game from penalizing 
 you for changing your mind about skill point distributions - you just get the points back and reallocate 
 them as you wish! Not only is this kind to newbies (who are prone to making mistakes) , but it is 
 also helpful to advanced players, who can reconfigure a character as needed. This seems to be a 
 game designed by people who really love gamers, and want them to have a great experience. Too often, 
 you are stuck playing a game in the style the developers allow, not the way you want to play, and 
 that can be intensely frustrating. Guild Wars lets you play when you want, however much you want, 
 and how you want - BRILLIANT!
  
  The game isn't perfect (what game is?) , but its flaws are not difficult to live with. I would like 
 to see more character slots (4 is a bit restrictive if you really want to try out different combinations) , 
 and the variety of monsters leaves a bit to be desired (it takes a while to get to the next set 
 of critters) , but these are relatively minor quibbles with a great game. You'd be a fool not to 
 play Guild Wars! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stegma
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 22, 2005 10:00 pm PT
Review:  I am surprised as how high the game has been rating out there. Do not get me wrong but I do like 
 the game and will continue playing it. It just falls a TAD short of all the rest.
  
  My opinion on why it got these ratings is this: The fact that this is a free game to play unlike 
 other MMOs - people who have never played MMOs for this reason flock to the game. MMOs generally 
 have a major positive impact on a player. For this - you get a lot of new people playing MMOs 
 who will usually give it a high ranking because they can not compare it to past MMOs on the market. 
 WOW is the best out there right now.
  
  My major disappointment:
  
  ***I think the biggest of all disappointments is the fact that you essentially are not free to 
 roam and explore. It generally is a maze. Paths set between gorgeous settings that you may not 
 always explore up front. Cliffs you cant jump off. Places in the horizon you will never really 
 see. In a way, that is how Diablo was. And god knows I love Diablo. The problem is, we have moved 
 past this and thats one of the reasons Guild Wars falls short.
  
  ***The second major one - which is a toss up - is the Skills Bar. As it is set up you can just 
 about gorge on the amount of skills you can learn in the world. Which is a wonderful thing - I 
 do enjoy that they took in the fact that - we just love learning new skills and magics. My issue 
 is that we can only use 8 at a time. In a town we select 8 out of many to be our primary skills 
 while we venture out until we return back to town when we can change them again. It just doesnt 
 sit with me well. Generally reality suggests that when a person learns how to do something - they 
 can do it all the time. The toss up comes here, the challenge this presents to you is welcomed 
 - where you need to THINK what is most important for the situation. Of course you are not sure 
 what is or isnt important in a place you havent been in or vs a person you havent fought in 
 the past.
  
  ***Third that also gets to me: The items you can equip on your hero are limited. There are no rings, 
 necklaces, belts or other little details that we just love collecting/trading in the world. The 
 little things that make your character interesting. Nevertheless the equipment you do put on your 
 hero, make him/her look amazing! 
  
  ***Graphics are amazing. Very clean, wonderful to look at. Just gets realy disapointing we cant 
 go up and touch half of it.
  
  ***Sound is fine the way it is. I guess it could have an
  
  *** The most amazing fact is that this MMO is FREE! Personally I dont mind paying for them 
 but it is nice that I dont have to pay for - another one!! In that sense it is a relief. The problem 
 with MMOs is that if we own one or two already - than we probably wont buy the third without cancelling 
 one of our other ones. That and the fact that we JUST DONT HAVE THAT MUCH TIME!
  
  *** PVP is fun to play with all sorts of different types of play... like capture the flag and so 
 on. This is something other games dont have so much, but that is changing with WOW's battle ground 
 system. WAAAAAAAAAAAAYYYy better.
  
  ***The thing I really do like tho is that this MMORPG seems to finally have a story line! Something 
 that gives us an end in sight other than that level cut off. Its OFTEN (not always) the story that 
 drives me to play that extra step. Think of Diablo2 - generally the play was repetitive - but at 
 least we had that story line of Going into the East - following Diablo and his slaying his brothers 
 until you are the hero. Its just nice to see a story go with this MMO.
  
  *** The teleporting can REALY take away from the overall feel of the world you are playing with. 
 The good thing is a lot of tedious travel time is cut to nothing. Im not sure what the best way 
 to deal with this problem would be. Maybe a balance of teleportation to the core areas like cities 
 and major towns - but the rest of the world have different means that are similar to the other 
 MMOs we have seen. 
  
  I expressed some major concerns a - generally I would say it is worth getting your paws on this 
 one just for the fact that its a MMO that you may play for free (other than buying it first) . 
 You cant really go wrong with that. So why not..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skippyj9
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 18, 2005 6:56 am PT
Review:  When you first start up Guild Wars you are blown away at how MMO it is without a monthly fee. And 
 it is very fun. Well, it's very fun for 2 hours then okay for 4 hours and then repetitive for 6 
 hours and then the game is done. Sure you can play with another character but all though the classes 
 are all different they all feel the same. And there's PvP but the PvP isn't all that great.
  
  It tries to break new ground by being an MMO** and have no monthly fee. Sounds good on paper 
 but doesn't quite work out when the game's up and running. There are too many districts in this 
 game. Districts are servers pretty much. There are about 30-70 in each town. The towns are the 
 MMO part of the game. Here you form your group but once you leave the town, it's just you and your 
 party. But now back to the districts. Since there are up to 70 (Yes I have seen 70 districts in 
 this game at one time) the chances are very low that you will ever bump into a friend that you 
 played with before. This only happened to me once in the whole 22 hours I spent with this game. 
 And isn't community the whole point of an MMO??? So don't buy this game if you are looking for 
 an MMO.
  
  The spell system is pretty cool though you can only choose a certain amount of spells to bring 
 with you when you go adventuring. So this adds to stategy. But my big beef with this game is the 
 repetitiveness. You can't just go from stage to stage in this game. If you do that you will be 
 too low of a level to go to the next one. So you have to do the same stage over and over again 
 until you get to a high enough level. Also groups are too dependent on Monks. Monks are the healers 
 in this game. It is impossible to do anything or go anywhere without a Monk. In other games you 
 don't HAVE to have a healer. You just won't gain experience as fast. Also no one really plays Monk 
 because it is too hard in this game. MMOs like EQ and WoW make it easy to play Cleric or Priest. 
 But in this game the health bars are off to the side and yo uget attacked too often so you usually 
 end up getting shouted at for doing a crappy job.
  
  The sound effects suck. Some magic spells sound like your ear drum is about to blow. They are really 
 annoying, like figner nails on a chalk board annoying. However, the cutscenes have nice music and 
 voice acting and are usually very entertaining.
  
  The graphics in this game are beautiful. They are colorful, artistic, and immersive. You actually 
 feel like you are in a fantasy book or something. It's just what you imagined a fantasy world to 
 look like. My only beef with the graphics is that every person of the same calss looks exactly 
 the same. There are only about 4 armor types for each class and 90% of the people in each class 
 wear the same one because it's the best. So there's no need for the other 3 types. But this is 
 more of a gameplay issue so I'm not marking the graphics down for this part.
  
  But here's the major downfall of this game. The value. You will be bored with this game before 
 a month is even over so if there was a monthly fee it wouldn't matter because you wouldn't play 
 past the 30 day free trial. Sure it's fun in the beginning but after a while it just gets boring 
 and repetive.
  
  Overall, just borrow it from a friend or don't play it at all unless you are in desperate need 
 of a free MMO. Because this is barely an MMO. And if it were it still wouldn't be all that fun. 
 I did a review earlier that was an 8.3 but that was after only 2 days of play. By the fith day 
 it got boring and now, 6 months later I'm writing a second review. 
  
  Guild Wars recieves from me a less than average 6.1 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotline_strider
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 22, 2005 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - 10/10 - The first thing i noticed when i play this is, hey this looks exactly like WoW. 
 they are almost the same, except you get you own sort of "copy" of the world when you exit the 
 towns and "outposts". i guess because of this, it isnt really an mmorpg. but the gameplay is just 
 so easy to use and fun to use, it makes you think it is one. 
  
  the gameplay got 10 because of the simple fact that its easy to use. it does take a litlle while 
 to learn and get used to all the keyboard commands, but once you do, its just plain fun.
  
  Graphics - 10/10 - one word: unbelievable!!! absolutely beautiful, you will on more than one ocasion 
 youll want to pause from the action and just take a look around. perfectly done.
  
  Sound - 9/10 - almost perfcet sound. there is nothing wrong with the quality, but sometimes when 
 you are playing, it tends to get a little quiet, which kinda urks me.
  
  Value - 10/10 - easily worth $50. even worth more. just so polished, no glitches to speak of, in 
 a nice little 2-disc package. WARNING TO PEOPLE WITH LOW MEMORY on you computer !! it takes a massive 
 2000 MB to install, so that might be the only drawback to some people.
  
  Tilt - 9/10 - fun to play, amzing graphics, evereything EXCEPT it gets pretty hard later on in 
 the game, to the point when its a little fustrating. (after about 15-20 hours of play) . 
  
  the thing i love about these game is though, ive been playing for about 30 hours, and i am only, 
 what, like 5-10% done the game!!
  
  OVERALL SCORE - 9.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnyv2003
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2005 1:59 am PT
Review:  Rarely in the gaming world does a game come along and change things in such a way that it deserves 
 it's own "genre" of gaming. For being heavily instanced and small group play, it falls short of 
 being a MMORPG, but it's not just an RPG because everything is based on teamplay and guilds. So 
 Arenanet has cleverly called it a (CMORPG) competitive multiplayer online role playing game.... i 
 think the acronym is right. As i mentioned in my caption, all traditional MMORPGers need not apply 
 with this game. But if you want a game that you can pick up and play and have fast-paced, team-based 
 fun then this is a must buy.
  
  If you're a fan of being whisked away in the lore and roleplaying of a game, then this game might 
 not be for you. The story of the game isn't what drives this game. The two things that make this 
 game different and above the rest, is it's massive quests and missions, and most importantly its' 
 PvP combat and GvG combat.... and you cant forget that you dont have to pay a monthly fee for any 
 of it. First, the missions are what i like to call "uber quests" that involve alot of strategy 
 and team work to finish. These missions, especially the end-game missions rival the epic feel of 
 the WoW quests, and considering that WoW is all about questing this is impressive that it is close 
 to the same greatness with questing. One setback to playing the missions and quests is that you 
 heavily rely on other people, and lets face it some are better than others. Some people are obnoxious 
 but luckily you get to choose your party members before the mission begins. Also, I have beaten 
 the game and am halfway there with my alternate character, and I can count on half my hand the 
 number of times someone has left a group or got DCed. The story is flat and towards the end becomes 
 really "Lord of the Ringish", but the fun you have doing the missions and quests to get there more 
 than makes up for it (and the point that it has a central story to focus on is a breath of fresh 
 air) . The PvP system is the most revolutionary of any RPG ever, and is definitely the selling point 
 of this game. What makes the PvP so fun is the balance of the classes. There is Warriors, Monks, 
 Rangers, Elemantists, Mesmers, and Necromancers.... for all you people that love caster classes, 
 there are four different choices in this game. There is no class that is superior to another class, 
 but there are people that know how to use their class better than others. Lets just say that I've 
 been owned in PvP by every class there is, but I've equally owned someone else of that same class. 
 To go along with class balance, team work is a definite must in PvP, if you are grouped with people 
 you know and have developed strategy with, then you have a massive upperhand against your opponent. 
 Guilds also play a heavy factor in this game, and when you win enough in the "Hall of Heroes" (a 
 tournament based PvP) , then you are given a Sigil and can created your guild hall. In this guild 
 hall there is an arena, and you take on other guilds in an "uber CTF", where you have to take on 
 another team and take out their "guild lord", who happens to be protected by numerous NPCs, and 
 the characters themselves. The GW site has a guild ladder, and keeps up with how many wins you 
 have, so it's definitely a great feeling to see your guild and the accomplishments you've achieved. 
 For only having one "race" in the game, there is definitely a high variety of looks and feels. 
 I have never seen someone have the same color armor or armor "get-up" as i have.
  
  The graphics in this game are amazing, and run really well on the fairly old system i have. There 
 is a well ranged variety of areas in the game and you never feel as though you're in the same ol 
 place. There is a high variety of mobs you will face, and each of them will take different strategies 
 to beat. The only gripe i have with the graphics, is that in the cutscenes would it have been difficult 
 to make their lips move just alil bit????
  
  The music of the game isn't terribly amazing.... but isnt terrible either. The sound effects of 
 spells and actions seem to fade with the game well, and dont stand out or seem clunky either.
 
  
  If you get into a good guild, and are a fan of strategy in your game, then you will definitely 
 spend more than a fair amount of time on this game. And the fact that you are always fighting someone 
 new will require that you always think differently in PvP.
  
  No monthly fee is enough to send this game through the charts in sales. The fact that the game 
 is so great without the fee will make it a classic, and will definitely put some pressure on the 
 competition. Arenanet has promised that it's expansion packs will equal the content of the original 
 game..... let's hope they promise, because if i can get a Guild Wars 2 out of an expanision, this 
 would be another ground breaking success. There are rumors floating around that maintenance on 
 the game will take too much for them to keep it free, but since it's so heavily instanced and not 
 one massive world to look after, i dont see maintenance as hard to keep up with as in most games. 
 Now quit reading this world and go out into the world of Ascalon...... hopefully you'll be at the 
 end of my blade or in my guild....... later 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tsukasa7
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2005 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is the latest MMO from the highly acclaimed MMO devlepor NCSoft. WIth it's minimum system 
 requirements being very low, practically everyone can enjoy the game. If you are one of those gamers 
 that wonder if this will run or if that will run, you need not worry, Guild Wars is very versatile.
 
  
  I got Guil Wars a little less than a week from the time of writing this review, and I have already 
 explored a lot, leveled up to 10, and learned several skills with the help of my guild. I am not 
 bragging, just simply letting you know that my 15 hours of addicted gamplay was all put in because 
 I was having fun. Not a single part of this time did I force myself to continue. I lost track of 
 time a lot, meaning several 2 a. m. play nights.
  
  Gameplay-wise, Guild Wars never lets down. In my journey through this massive and innovative game, 
 I have seen something new at least once a quest. Whether I am using my new skills or watching others 
 show off theirs, I always seem to be learning. Although I am a level 10, I still consider myself 
 a noob. I don't know the in's and out's of this game, I am just playing and learning constantly. 
 Although the combat is a little repetitive, it doesn't get old.
  
  Sound-wise, Guild Wars feels a lot like The Lord of The Rings. I feel like watching the movies 
 and playing the game at the same time to see how similar they are. Thank god they didn't put a 
 footstep sound in here, seeing as you do a lot of walking. Overall, sound does add to the experience.
 
  
  Graphics are not top notch, but are definately incredible, especially when you run the game on 
 a low-end PC. It has a style similar to Fable, although the overall look is one of a kind. The 
 "glow" effect is a nice touch too.
  
  I don't really have any complaints with Guild Wars except tht there is a lot of walking, and maybe 
 the price tag should be lowered to 39.99 US. Other than that, Guild Wars is a treat for any PC 
 gamer lookin to get into the MMO genre or to expand their gameplay horizons. If you have the money 
 and are looking for a new game, do yourself a favor and pick this game up. You might only need 
 this game for the year, seeing as you'll be playing it for hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metallimoose
Rating: 7
Date: May 13, 2005 6:43 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars has its moments. The developers have carved away at the inane fluff that has become 
 synonymous with the term MMO, allowing the simple, speedy gameplay to shine through unimpeded. 
 It doesnt hurt that the title sports an amazing graphics engine, one capable of looking excellent 
 on even lower-end PCs. But somehow Guild Wars falls short on nearly every level, and the impressive 
 innovations serve less to vault the game to greatness than to save the game from badness.
  
  The campaign of Guild Wars is the standard MMO fare -- the player creates a character by chooses 
 among the various looks and classes, and then journeys about a medieval fantasy world, completing 
 the various quests, becoming all the while more powerful through leveling and skill acquirement. 
 Guild Wars other mode, an extensive array of player-vs.-player options and arenas, seems to have 
 been equally important to the developers, and through this mode player clans can compete against 
 one another for placement on the leader boards.
  
  But calling Guild Wars standard is unfair to the renovations it has made to the current MMO formula. 
 Most prominently, Guild Wars has no monthly fee -- none whatsoever. The developers apparently hope 
 to secure consistent funds through the selling of expansion packs. This is an original financing 
 model that, if successful, could have a major impact on the pricing schemes of other developers. 
 Whether it does or doesnt remains to be seen, but regardless, Guild Wars uniqueness in this field 
 is a boon to the discriminating player.
  
  Gameplay-wise, Guild Wars shaves away at many MMO adhesives. One of these is the slug-like traveling 
 pace -- in Guild Wars, its possible to instantly teleport to a nearby town by simply accessing the 
 world map and clicking on the towns icon. This is an extremely welcomed feature that makes the 
 core gameplay much more accessible, as both back-tracking and meeting up with friends become entirely 
 painless processes; and since physically traveling to a town is necessary to unlock it for teleportation, 
 the overall impression of a traversable world isnt lost in the mix.
  
  Several other concepts have gotten the axe. Death penalties are non-existent, other than a short 
 teleportation to a nearby spawn. Logging out is not tethered to an absurd 30-second timer that 
 prevents the player from leaving -- all logging is immediate. Booting up the game is equally painless, 
 as loading is fast enough to be practically non-existent -- type in the password, and youre in.
 
  
  The combat is the heart of Guild Wars; crafting is present, but is relegated to a minor role. The 
 fighting has been compared to Diablo elsewhere, and this is generally a good comparison -- the combat 
 is fast, simple, and direct (although, thankfully, the needless hyper-clicking of Diablos combat 
 has been lost in the translation) . Spell effects and attacks are quickly animated, and the health 
 meter of both friend a foe seems to drain rapidly. The overall effect is that of the standard MMO 
 combat system tripled in speed.
  
  But for a game so focused on combat, Guild Wars is unacceptably weak. Its only uniqueness is its 
 insistence on speed -- but speed is not enough. City of Heroes (another NCsoft title) had comparable 
 speed; and the combat there was much more solid, much more satisfying, much more complex, and much 
 more animated (but more on that later) . Guild Wars may wrap its simple gameplay in the guise of 
 speed, but the illusion is thin.
  
  Guild Wars skill system is equally troublesome. The game features scores and scores of skills, 
 each one related to one of the games six classes, and through the course of the game a given character 
 can learn a wealth of these abilities. The catch is that a character can only equip eight of these 
 skills at a time, and these eight can be mixed and matched at will, as long as the player is in 
 a town (changing skills in wild areas is impossible) . While this system has its positives -- a given 
 character can have a wide variety of capabilities, and can specialize its role for an upcoming 
 excursion -- on the whole it is unwieldy. The characters are so versatile that any sort of permanent 
 identity is shattered, and it is simply a chore to micromanage the skills available. Guild Wars 
 skill list could easily have been cut by half, or more -- the system is simply too extended, and 
 isnt tight. 
  
  Much has been made of Guild Wars graphical strength, and this is understandable: the game is simply 
 gorgeous. Many sights are here to be seen -- waterfalls, harbors, distant castles -- and all of these 
 environments are simply stunning. Amazingly, Guild Wars prowess is visible on even lower-end systems -- a 
 fantastic technical feat.
  
  The problem with the graphics is that they feel fake. Guild Wars areas are essentially large mazes, 
 and the excellent-looking environments are nothing more than elaborate back-props. The Guild Wars 
 player is not allowed free movement -- it is impossible to swim, hop off a cliff, or engage in any 
 form of travel that moves the player off the pre-set path. Even jumping is verboten. And while 
 this lack of movement is more of a gameplay fault than a graphical one, the effect still serves 
 to undermine the beauty of it all; you can look, but you cant touch.
  
  Another fault is the animation -- it simply isnt up to par with the rest of the graphics. Some of 
 the animations, like that of an archer firing his bow, are fine, but too many are downright weak. 
 The flare attack of my fledgling elementalist is made up of a two-foot hop and a petite forward 
 arm motion. Its like the dancing flourish of a Backstreet Boy gone horribly wrong.
  
  The audio is undoubtedly the weakest portion of the game. The music was composed by Jeremy Soule -- who 
 also composed the music for Neverwinter Nights and Morrowind. Much of it is very good, and the 
 sound of the score rolling in the background as the player journeys forth is appropriately mood-setting. 
 But inexplicably, the main theme that plays in the opening menu is directly lifted from some of 
 Soules previous works. Its not a remix -- its an exact duplication, and it raises doubts about 
 the score of the entire game -- if the friggin main theme is a hack, the originality of the rest 
 of the music is called into question. Call me a stickler for quality, but I think that original 
 music has been an industry standard for quite some time. 
  
  The sound effects are infinitely worse. The combat is made up of a chorus of weak-sounding whacks, 
 but this is neither damning nor surprising. Its the ambient effects that are unacceptable. The 
 world of Guild Wars is extremely silent. No rustling water, no wind through the trees, no braying 
 animals, no chattering NPCs, no roaring fires, nothing. The distinct lack of a convincing audio 
 environment gives the entire game a dilapidated feel.
  
  Technically, Guild Wars is absolutely outstanding. Loading times are extremely brisk, and occur 
 only at major area transitions. The games amazing graphics are expertly produced, and the game 
 can both look good and run fine on even light-weight systems.
  
  In the end, Guild Wars is a above average game that never transcends the standard fare that has 
 already been seen. Ive sounded overly negative, but the game is decent -- the detriments Ive associated 
 with it are probably a reaction to the flabbergastingly high scores that the game has so far received. 
 For those without the will or the way to pay monthly for MMOs, Guild Wars is a fine choice; but 
 for those with the means, there are simply better options out there. Guild Wars is apparently cheaper 
 for a reason.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFry64
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 13, 2005 2:39 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars Review
  By: StarFry64
  
  World of Warcraft and City of Heroes are two examples of great MMORPGs. This game, just came out 
 of nowhere and Guild Wars is hard to describe of what it is. There are two sides to this game, 
 RPG and PvP.
  
  The story to RPG isn't much original like WoW's but it is about the King looking for the bestest 
 guild who can beat up the enemies. RPG is your regular MMORPG with a story, quests, and such. RPG 
 is probably in my opinion the worst part of this game as it is still trying to be entertaining. 
 Although you can have a party and a guild which may seem familer to WoW players. If you are going 
 solo, there is A. I. to help you but as a result they usually aren't that helpful. This game is 
 better without having the RPG. 
  
  PvP is the bestest part of this game. It's all about you and your group trying to go trough obstacles 
 that come toward you. In this side, you are looking for the best in your group. PvP seems like 
 parody of Warcraft 3 in my opinion. PvP is great with teamwork and fun. There is one level where 
 there are two guilds or parties killing each other which just feels insane. Sure PvP in this game 
 isn't what you expected in a MMORPG but like I said, thank God it's here. Also in Pvp you can design 
 your character in a more detailed way. And you can choose him or her skills, what level should 
 she be in, what class, and etc. which makes PvP just nonstop decoration for your new character. 
 
  
  Other than the the sides of the game, the gameplay feels pretty much the same thing you'll see 
 in a MMORPG but more slower and boring. The graphics however are really better than Fable's. And 
 for those who haven't noticed, this game has light boom. The sound really doesn't sound orginal 
 but feels good because it fits right into the times when you are with your team fighting and etc. 
 The tilt is horrible because with or without a tutorial, this game still has the worst tilt. Another 
 part of Guild Wars' best parts to it is its value. The online play in this game is TOTALLY FREE. 
 Overall, I guess you can say it is hard to describe Guild Wars. But this game really is boring. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wenolas
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 13, 2005 12:53 am PT
Review:  I was sitting in my computer chair only seven days ago asking myself, "Do I want to purchase Guild 
 Wars?" Every time I opened up the forums I saw something about Guild Wars. Whether it was, "Guild 
 Wars is awesome!" or "My favorite RPG.... Guild Wars!" I became quite curious as to if it was really 
 that good. I had played beta and never really got into the game. I seemed a bit lost I guess you 
 could say. That wasn't the case when I logged in for the first time on the live version of the 
 game. You start off with the choice of creating a roleplaying character or a player verse player 
 character. If you select the player verse player option you skip through the entire story and start 
 right in the action of PvP. If you choose to roleplay you play through the story and complete various 
 quests with others. Your next step is creating your character from a selection of six different 
 classes (ranger, warrior, mesmer, necromancer, ranger and monk.) You customize your character by 
 choosing your sex, face, hair, and build. Afterwards you assign you character a name.
  
  If you've chosen to roleplay you start in Ascalon and begin gameplay. You begin with doing quests 
 and you soon face the decision of choosing a secondary class. Say you are playing a warrior and 
 you would like some of the monk skills. You would become some what of what we in the roleplaying 
 world call a paladin. You would posses mainly warrior skills, but those skills would be supported 
 by monk abilities. When you exit a city in Guild Wars your zone is instanced, for you if you're 
 fighting solo, or for your group if thats what you prefer. As you've made your way through the 
 story you may have joined a guild, or formed your own. Guilds can even have guild halls. Much of 
 the higher end gameplay is guild focused, but it is not necessary that you are part of a guild. 
 
  
  The game doesn't follow the typical MMORPG model so the creators of this title have called it a 
 CORPG (competitive online roleplaying game) focused on competitions at the high end game. People 
 who liked games like Neverwinter Nights will absolutely adore this game. I recommend it to all 
 RPG fans out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CraigH123
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 12, 2005 9:38 pm PT
Review:  To tell you how great this game is from my perspective, I've played it about 50 hours out of 12 
 days or so of having the game. That is a lot. I may have even spent more. I've never been a fan 
 of MMORPG's really before, mainly because I thought it was rediculous to spend $5 a month on a 
 game I already lumped $50 on. I tried Everquest once as was not to impressed. Many of the problems 
 I found with Everquest (the original one I don't know about the expansions or EQ2) are taken care 
 of in Guild Wars. It's easy to port between towns, quests are marked on the map so you don't have 
 to wander around aimlessly in places that all look the same basically, and its a lot easier to 
 grasp, although difficult to master. However that is good in a game, especially with a PvP arena 
 aspect.
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  
  The best part of this game is the gameplay. At first seeing 6 classes doesn't seem like a lot but 
 you can take 2 classes - a primary and secondary - and there are tons of skills to play with with 
 each character. One good aspect of this game that I've already used a lot is the attribute refund 
 portion. For each level you gain you get more attribute refund points, which can accumulate to 
 24, and then you can then use those to take down one attribute and then give it to another. Upgrading 
 armor and weapons is also a fun aspect of the game as you have to unlock components in roleplaying 
 that you can then use as a PvP only character. At the beginning you can either playing as a roleplaying 
 character in which you follow the storyline or you can play PvP only in which you just play against 
 other characters. I haven't done PvP yet, but I believe it's teams though I don't know how many 
 are on a team.
  
  Graphics 7/10
  
  The graphics in many parts of this game are spectacular, the characters, the houses the sky, and 
 many parts of the environment. But much of the landscape is too pixelated and has too many invisible 
 walls that can get annoying. Other than that it's great.
  
  Sound 6/10
  
  The sound effects are pretty good, but there is no battle music, which I don't like, but the Normal 
 music is good.
  
  Value 10/10
  
  I've spent over 50 hours already on this game and I'm about 3/5 through the story I believe and 
 I haven't even done the PvP yet. Worth the $50
  
  Tilt 10/10
  
  I thought a 9.3 score sounds fair for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deleran
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 12, 2005 6:45 pm PT
Review:  I gave this game a good 15 hours, and I have to say I was less than impressed. This game offers 
 nothing you can't get better elsewhere. The combat is stale, the concepts are cliche, its tedious 
 and most importantly, its boring. There is little excitement to be had in this game. I have few, 
 if any, good things to say about it. I would recommend any number of games over this one, including 
 WoW, CoH, or EQ2. I dont need to write a big, long review telling you why its a bad game, it just 
 is. I want my money and my time back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Bebop
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 12, 2005 5:36 pm PT
Review:  My favorite thing about this game is that the game makers finally realized that not every online 
 game that is an RPG has to have monthly fees. This is one of the reasons i got this game is because 
 of the free online play. I wish that most game makers would realize more sales from no fees.
  Ok now on to the game. this game has it all. it is smooth and clean. the weapons systems are nice 
 and clean and there are alot of choices when picking a weapon. the character selection is pretty 
 nice too. its the same as most RPGs and keeps the standard characters. really really really fun 
 game. it is a must buy for those interested in massive games with online play and such.
  A few things i would change are all cosmetics. sometimes the graphics tend to look squarey and 
 not very sharp. the music is kinda boring and you dont really notice it very much. other than that 
 the game is just sweet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpaladin_basic
Rating: 8
Date: May 12, 2005 10:44 am PT
Review:  I'll start off with the comparisons to World of Warcraft since everyone seems to be trying to make 
 these games into a rivalry of sorts although they really have no business being mentioned in the 
 same sentence. WoW is a true mmorpg while Guild Wars is more of a hybrid. In WoW you'll find thousands 
 of other human beings online on your server all at once running around tackling quests and dancing 
 for half an hour in the streets. You will find this in Guild Wars as well. However, your character 
 in WoW is confined to the server he was created on and you'll find all of the other people playing 
 not only in the cities but out in the wilderness killing mobs of enemies and whatnot. The only 
 time you won't be able to see another person is when they enter an instance dungeon which is just 
 a small area in the grand scheme of things. In Guild Wars the ONLY place you can find other people 
 is in the cities which act as hubs for you to get a party together. You won't find them out fighting 
 monsters or doing their quests unless you form a party with them before you head outside. When 
 you head out alone there is no one out there to provide any quick help or hurt for that matter.
 
  
  When you start a character you choose to be either a human male or human female. You pick between 
 an assortment of usually bizarre hair styles and other features to try make your character a little 
 more original or at least different than the others. Sadly it won't amount to much. After thinking 
 up a name (must be at least two words) you are treated to cut scene to help you into the fantasy 
 setting and your off to help save Ascalon. You'll immediately notice throngs of other people that 
 look almost identical to yourself. You might have a different hairstyle to slightly differentiate 
 yourself but thats it. If you picked a Ranger for example, you'll immediately notice several other 
 rangers wearing the exact same armor. In other words, you'll never at any point be able to strut 
 around showing off that godly armor of yours because chances are, every other person who is the 
 same class as you is wearing it. You can attempt to give a little customization through the use 
 of blue, green, yellow, orange, silver, red, or black dyes. You can mix them and try and come up 
 with a good color or just use them straight up on your armor to change its colors. This is a nice 
 feature but doesn't make up for the astounding lack of armor models in this game. 
  
  Where you will feel true customization is in your skills that you use. The eight skills that you 
 will use to be specific. Each class gets 75 skills and when you add that to your secondary class 
 you will have a total of 150. When you pick your main class in the beginning between the Mesmer (a 
 sort of anti-caster) , Warrior, Ranger, Necromancer, Elementalist (mage) , and Monk (a priest essentially) 
 you will have the opportunity early on the pick a secondary class. The combinations you can make 
 are truly interesting and usually complement eachother in some way very well. Although being able 
 only to use 8 out of those 150 skills might seem a little restricting, its what makes it very tactical 
 game. You can only bring eight skills out with you to fight the mobs of enemies so choose wisely. 
 You'll often find yourself wishing you had more room for skills when you have to choose between 
 to skills because you don't have the space for another. 
  
  To progress through the game you'll be either grinding (killing enemies over and over without doing 
 quests for experience points) or doing quests for the experience rewards. The quests are pretty 
 generic just like they are in WoW. There are a lot of 'go fetch' quests and 'go kill' quests that 
 you can choose to do or not. At first they aren't too important but later the quests will serve 
 to get you not only some experience and items but more skills as well which is essential to become 
 more powerful. Leveling up in this game maxes at 20 and with each level up you get twenty more 
 health points and zero energy points. Your energy will not increase throughout the game except 
 by items which add to it or the elementalists ability to increase his mana pool. 
  
  The items dropped throughout the game will 80% of the time be sold to a merchant, 19% of the time 
 be salvaged for materials to use as components to build a new weapon, and 1% of the time you'll 
 use what you picked up. You won't shout with joy seeing any weapon fall off an enemy corpse because 
 none of it really useful at all. White text colored items are plain common items, blue are unidentified 
 items that will add something to your stats, and purple items are rare but no more useful than 
 blue items. In my opinion, the lack of useful weapons that drop coupled with the unoriginal and 
 lacking armor models gives this game a black eye. Once you reach level 20 there isn't much to hold 
 out for except for new skills. 
  
  One thing that isn't mentioned too often is the world map and its size. You couldn't ask for more 
 in terms of map area to cover. It's large, make no mistake about that. If you like uncovering a 
 map bit by bit fighting monsters in repitition every step of the way than this will be what you 
 look forward to. Of the areas that I uncovered during my explorations I'd find a nice scenic area 
 that seemed very mystical and fits very well into a fantasy world like this. However, thats all 
 it is. There are no treasure chests with powerful items or secrets to discover there. You'll enter 
 rooms such as early on in the catacombs where it looks like something special but is in fact nothing 
 at all.
  
  With no monthly fee its easy to throw praise on a game like this as something special but the reality 
 is its decent but isn't what people are making it out to be. The reason you pay to play WoW and 
 other mmorpgs is the deep customization and deep rpg elements found in every aspect of the game. 
 Guild Wars comes up short in a lot of those aspects especially with the weapons and armor system. 
 It's hard to escape the feeling of being very unoriginal when everyone else looks like you do. 
 There is no auction house or central hub area where people are tuned in to hear what you have to 
 sell and there really isn't much to sell since so much of it is worthless to everyone. The chat 
 interface needs some fine tuning as well as its harder to get a party together than it really should 
 be. If you have a friend or two who you can quest with that would enhance the feel of this game 
 quite a bit since you can avoid some hassle with getting a party together. 
  
  The pvp aspect of this game I haven't tried much. If you really love pvp then it'll help give this 
 game a longer lasting effect but it won't hold your attention for as long as an mmorpg would. 
 
  
  To say that Guild Wars trumps mmorpgs by having no monthly cost is flat out wrong. It pales in 
 comparison in a lot of ways but we don't all play mmorpgs and we don't all want a monthly fee of 
 $15 so if you are very strict about not wanting to pay monthly then Guild Wars is your game. Make 
 no mistake about it, Guild Wars is a lesser role playing game when compared with mmorpgs but its 
 easy on your wallet and it ain't bad to boot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Centra
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 11, 2005 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Cause GW is all bun, and nothing else. I have no clue how Greg could have scored this the way he 
 did. I'm even more confused at what the general public would call the best thing since WOW. The 
 designers said from the onset that GW would be different, and boy is it.
  
  I keep reading that GW is a hard game to describe, but I think I can sum it all up....
  
  You 
 create a character. Pick the class, choose a pretty face, some hair, etc.
  
  When the game opens your presented with a tiny intro of some rolling terrain with all the goodness 
 of what looks to be a grand world waiting to be explored. From a role players perspective, it doesn't 
 get much better than this. The graphics in the game really stand out. Everything from the post 
 process effects ingame, and the fine detail of the trees, rocks, sky etc. Very nice. Compared to 
 EverQuests ingame engine, I would have to say that GW is a step above, with a lower PC req to boot. 
 Not bad. 9 out of 10
  
  Your character begins inside the fortified compounds of Ascalon City. Surrounded by big walls, 
 and taking a beating from the creatures outside. Your first task is to walk forward and speak with 
 one of the NPC's to begin a quest. With that out of the way, you'll most likely make your way down 
 the hill into the central square and see lots of others who look just like you! LOTS OF OTHERS 
 WHO LOOK ALOT LIKE YOU! Every class starts out with the same pair of socks in this game, and its 
 so blatently obvious because every class also has the same look. Can you say attack of the clones?
 
  
  My first thought was I would soon pick up some nice pants, or a new shirt. Maybe a different cap 
 for my head, etc. So I quickly took on a few quests and ran through the instance serperating the 
 front gate of the city to the outside world beyond. 
  
  Did I mention the pretty graphics? Yes I did! Did I mention the hickity cupity lagity whatever 
 it is? No I don't think so. For the most part, the game world runs pretty smooth, except for the 
 fact that every 10 feet or so, the game tends to burp. My first thought was maybe it was lag, but 
 I think it may also be HDD access, or a bit of both. Not a big deal, as the game is still very 
 playable. I ran about outside the main gates and spoke to a couple of NPC's and proceeded straight 
 ahead to kill the creepies blocking the road. To my surprise, it played out pretty well, and felt 
 well scripted. I picked up an Axe, 5 gold, and a Bow. Cool a Bow! I tested it on the next set of 
 baddies and it performed as expected. I thought my character looked good using it too. The weapons 
 do look great, and look even better in action. My next quest was to find a buddy and drag him into 
 my own personal world, so I marched back into the city proper, hung out with the clones until finally 
 I found a lvl2 Warrior who said he would team up with me to finish my quest. For some odd reason, 
 and I can't put my finger on it, while questing with this warrior, I had the strange feeling we 
 were playing a LAN game in the same room. GW just does not have that MMORPG feel. Its strange, 
 but from the onset, GW feels like a single player experience.
  
  I spent the next 3 days running around the country side completing quests (Mostly by myself) building 
 up my cash, and picking up lots and lots and lots of bows, swords, cash, misc trinkets, and more 
 bows, swords, cash.... you get the point. Early in the game I picked up a color potion to change 
 any item in my inventory to that color. Since the color I picked up was purple, I tried it on my 
 boots. Wow, purple boots. Thats nice, except I want my boots to look unique, not the same as everyone 
 elses boots with a new shade. Where the heck is the customization?? I'll admit I'm only lvl10, 
 but so far the drop items have been a repeat of swords, yata yata yata. I see folks with capes, 
 but please tell me I can do better than dressing like an action hero. 
  
  I messed around with PVP, and I like the idea of a quick click to action feature. It works well, 
 but the novelty wears off quick. Plus you cannot pick who joins your group in PVP, the computer 
 randomly picks others who have quick clicked and throws you all into the fray. I'm sorry, but its 
 simply dumb.
  
  Another thing that peeved me off was while questing with 3 others, way the heck out in the middle 
 of nowhere, one of the guys decides he's gonna enter into another instance. We all get zapped out 
 of our current quest, and find ourselves standing in town. 
  
  In a nutshell, If you liked diablo, and would like to play diablo in 3D, then GW might appeal to 
 you. Just be warned, that the world is pretty small, and the quests are awkward. The story is not 
 the main focus of GW, so its safe to say that you won't get any from it. True RPG fans would be 
 better off playing D&D on paper, or something along the lines of Marrowind. With that said, If 
 your a total newb to Online gaming, then GW with its lack of monthly payments is a great way to 
 get a basic feel of how online gaming works. 
  
  PROS
  Awesome visuals
  No monthly fee
  Plenty of skills/spells to work with
  
  
  CONS
  Poor RPG elements (This 
 aint WOW or EQ folks)
  Poor PVP elements (Starts out ok, but gets boring really quick)
  Chat interface needs reworking
  Attack of the Clones
  Difficult forming and keeping a party 
 together
  
  GW tries to be a bit of everything thats good about todays current crop of MMORPG, but for me it 
 came out being really short. Take the big expansive world of World of warcraft, and all it has 
 to offer, jump up and down on it for several days, and you have GW. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keledron
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 11, 2005 1:36 am PT
Review:  People said it couldn't be done... there's no way a company producing a game that even remotely 
 has Massive Multiplayer mechanics could ever actually survive without charging a monthly fee. 
 
  
  Well, whether its a pact with evil deities, or just solid release sales, the creators of Guild 
 Wars have seemingly done the impossible. 
  
  First off, GW is a fantastic and solid release. I have yet to encounter a single frustrating bug, 
 and that is absolutely impressive. The game itself is one of the hardest things to describe. After 
 playing many games, its easy to try and pidgeonhole GW as a perticular kind of game... notice that 
 the statement is easy to try, but you won't succeed.
  
  Starting with visuals... wow. As a designer, someone like myself can't help but take their hat 
 off to this entire team. Guild Wars is absolutely gorgious in the graphical sense. Not only that, 
 but the engine and the power it is built upon is absolutely incredible. No other MMO to date runs 
 as smooth as this product. The environmental graphics of GW are on par with EQ2, except that you 
 don't need a $2000 system to run it. With its required specs, Guild Wars looks beautiful and runs 
 almost flawlessly.
  
  The audio is immersive and well composed. The clack of a bowstring and clang of a sword will leave 
 you satisfied in the heat of combat. The music is composed by none other than the renowned Jeremy 
 Soule, of Neverwinter Nights fame, and many other great musical scores in the software industry.
 
  
  Gameplay is top notch. It plays like an MMO, feels like a single player game, what more could one 
 ask for? When you're in major cities/towns, you'll interact with about 50-100 players. Here you 
 can meet up and form parties, and then head off to do whatever quests await you. Upon leaving town 
 however, the ENTIRE world outside of it is instanced for you and your party. Goodbye kill-stealers 
 and griefers, you weren't wanted anyway. You'll be able to play with people you want to play with, 
 without having to watch out for those of little intellect who seek fun by ruining your gaming experience.
 
  
  Solo play is definitely viable during earlier levels, but you'll most certainly need a small group 
 for certain quests. This brings up several more points. For one, the maximum level in Guild Wars 
 is 20. This actually works out really well. When you create a character, you have the choice of 
 creating a high leveled ready to go PVP character. Sure, that character will be viable and playable 
 in PVP, but you will be unable to get the level of customization and the amount of skills that 
 you would if playing the RPG (start at LVL 1 and work your way up) character. 
  
  Customization is a big plus in guild wars. You will be given the option fairly early on to choose 
 a second profession. This is actually selected from the list of classes, and not a tradeskill or 
 something like that. So you can easily create a Warrior/Monk, ready to tangle in the frontlines 
 but also able to heal yourself during combat as well. It makes for a really fun and interesting 
 play experience. 
  
  The RPG character experience can easily last you 100+ hours doing all the sidequests, so GW is 
 in no way a quick experience. Upon reaching level 20, you'll have something close to 150 skills 
 between your primary and secondary class. However, while in a mission or PvP event, you'll only 
 be able to choose 8 of them. This adds a lot of strategy and planning, and can set a character 
 apart from others depending on what you choose and how you use those skills. 
  
  On the subject of PvP: Many players are totally turned off by this aspect in MMOs, however Guild 
 Wars does it right. You don't have to engage in PvP until you reach your max level. The RPG character 
 will provide you with plenty of quests and things to do. But there is actually great fun to be 
 had once you complete that portion of the game, especially if you've got some friends to form a 
 guild with. 
  
  There are many fun PvP events to attend in the "Hall of Heroes", everything from gladiator style 
 deathmatch free for alls, to guild vs guild deathmatches, to 'Capture the Relic', King of the Hill... 
 it really adds a lot to the end game. There is a ladder on the Guild Wars website that keeps track 
 of the top 1000 guilds, so competition is there for those who want it. Guilds can actually build 
 their own Guild houses as well, just another neat immersive factor to go along with your guild 
 cloaks and tabards and symbols, which all set you apart from other guilds.
  
  
  Of course as the headline mentions, there is no monthly fee! Honestly, I couldn't tell you how 
 they pull it off, but they do it and do it well. GW has the potential to revolutionize the entire 
 MMO industry if this trend continues to suceed. 
  
  Overall, like the reviewer previously stated, if you're only buying one game this year, it may 
 as well be this. If you've never played an MMO before, you'll really enjoy guild wars as something 
 new. For my own take, the last time I played something this different and refreshing, was the release 
 of Diablo. There is something in guild wars that appeals to everyone, and it is done so well that 
 it really should not be passed up. 
  
  Thats my take, take it or leave it. To sum it all up, do NOT pass GW up, for any reason, or you 
 may find several Charr knocking down your door to eat you!!!... um... well not really... but you 
 would defintiely miss out on a ton of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Medic
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 11, 2005 1:04 am PT
Review:  I don't even have time to tell you the excitement this game had built up from me. I couldn't wait, 
 people raved about how much fun it was, the awesome PvP, no grinding and incredibly interesting 
 plot.
  
  I expreienced none of this, and am so angry while writing this I can't even see straight.
  
 
  For one thing, the plot is stupid, boring, lame and stupid. I know I said stupid twice, that was 
 for emphasis. Oh wow, how innovative, Goblins "charr, sorry" attack humans... and you kill them.
 
  
  That's about it, no I'm not kidding. It never gets any better, and it bores you to tears.
  
 
  As for Gameplay, it's nothing that hasn't been done in Diablo. Click spells and click to swing 
 your sword. Not that there is anything wrong with it, because in other RPGs it works just fine, 
 but in this game you need groups, something ALWAYS LACKING in Guild Wars.
  
  Finding a group is painful, thanks to a confusing chat interface, and people who prefer to stand 
 around AFK and play "rock paper scissors" than complete boring mundane quests.
  
  Oh wait....
  
  As for the PvP, it's probably the best part of the game, which isn't saying 
 much. The game pretty much plays out like this:
  
  - Do stupid quests
  
  - Hit level 20
  
  - No more levels, PvP cause there is no more point to doing quests.
  
 
  I hate PvP, if I wanted to do that I would play Quake. Sorry though, cause that is pretty much 
 all there is to do.
  
  As for killing for items, nothing cool ever drops. Get used to: "Longsword" and "Shortbow" because 
 you will see them alot.
  
  This game is boring, stupid and won't interest you in the least.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hadiz
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 10, 2005 5:16 pm PT
Review:  Everyone will admit, the main attraction to this game is the absence of a monthly fee. It's why 
 I decided to check out the game, as was the reason with a couple of friends. At first, the game 
 is tons of fun. Make no doubt about it, the graphics are astounding and despite the presence of 
 "zones", the load times are remarkably fast. However I personally felt that the game's shine quickly 
 wore off, for a few reasons.
  
  First off, when you leave a town and enter the world, it is like your own version of the world. 
 Meaning you will NEVER run into another player character. For the first few levels this is nice, 
 because those levels are easy anyway. However after a while it's downright strange.. for example 
 player characters can be beneficial if you are trying to do a quest that is harder than you anticipated, 
 and don't want to go back to town to find a group and start all over. Another downside is player 
 characters can help point you in the right direction if you get lost, or assist in finding an NPC 
 for a quest. The only upside to this situation is you never have to worry about your dungeon/mob/quest 
 being camped.
  
  Second, it gets extremely annoying that the game has these sort of "invisible paths". You'll be 
 running up or down a path, or will come to a small hill, and you cannot go up or down it, whatever 
 the case may be. Even areas that clearly look like they can be scaled or crossed over, etc. cannot.
 
  
  After doing 7 levels in roleplaying mode, I decided there really is not much point to continuing 
 as a lot of the incentive to get to high level is to experience what the game has to offer at that 
 point. However, if you can be high level at the click of a mouse, why bother grinding there? Would 
 there be a distinct advantage if you level to 20 instead of starting a PVP character? I personally 
 didn't want to wait around to find out.
  
  Grouping is fun and fairly straightforward- there is the typical system in place to split loot, 
 gold and experience. Speaking of which, it got very annoying to constantly have to make trips to 
 a merchant to sell the random crap I was picking up, as inventory is so small. Back on the subject, 
 there are henchmen available if you don't want to go through the hassle of finding player characters 
 to group with. Henchmen are free, and you can choose which of the four classes to bring along with 
 you. However, there is still the split with the experience and the loot, and what is very strange 
 is the henchmen I brought to do a quest where 3 levels lower than I was, so all it took was a decent 
 sized group of mobs to wipe us out. I have no idea why they are not the same level as your character 
 by default, because 3 levels below you is not much help in a game where there are only 20 levels. 
 Even a one level difference is very noticeable in terms of difficulty.
  
  The bottom line is you get what you pay for. For no monthly fee, this is a very good game. It looks 
 amazing, and is very easy to dive right into. You don't have to be an RPG or MMORPG vet to get 
 into Guild Wars. However personally I got bored fairly quickly with some of the pitfalls mentioned. 
 I'll be playing around some more in the future with different character types and a PVP character, 
 but in general there is not a lot to hold my interest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthpathfinder
Rating: 5.6
Date: May 10, 2005 1:57 pm PT
Review:  You see i liked this game it was ok at the start, but small things draged the game experience down 
 a bit at a time. The big thing i dislike about this game is that the world is boxed in by walls 
 and lack of ability to swim or climb in the game. I also got bored of the missions or so called 
 missions within the so called story line.
  
  Also to my mine point i do not like how people compare GW to WOW, i mean how can they compare them 
 when they are not even the same type of game. One is a MMORPG the other is on singleplayer game 
 that you can play online.
  
  The game world when you are on a mission on your own is bland there are no players around its like 
 everyone stays in town and your the only one that gose out into the big bad world? How dose that 
 in keep with the story? How dose that make you feel being part of a gaming world when your the 
 only one there? In WOW there might be the odd ganking quest depending on how many people on the 
 server might take a little longer but it is no where near as bad as people here would try and make 
 you believe.
  
  To end i have one question to ask the people who like this game if you had to pay for it each month 
 like you do other MMORPG would you still be playing it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrownWalrus
Rating: 6
Date: May 9, 2005 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Ok first of all let me start out by saying that the only reason a lot of people (such as me) like 
 this game and gave it a high score is because it was free... i see absolutely no other reason why 
 people keep giving it 9.0+. 
  
  This game has very little content and there is NOTHING to do in this game either then play the 
 very boring campaign or PvP or craft items in a sucky crafting system. All the other little things 
 such as trading with people and making you Guild cape or "buying your own guild island (which is 
 a load of crap if you say thats a cool thing because you HAVE to buy the stupid 2000gold island 
 to have guild battles which is the only use it has) .
  
  PvP is random you go to a town and click a button and boom you are randomly put in a team against 
 another random team. You can't choose who to fight so if you wanted to duel your friend you would 
 both have to hope you would be put on the teams dueling. Also PvP matches usually end very quickly 
 but they can be fun which is a thing i actually like about this game but then again if you don't 
 like just dueling non stop (basically saying if you don't like PvP) this game is pretty much useless 
 to you. The PvP however is riddled with tons of options such as capture the flag and whatever other 
 types of matches there are which should keep it interesting for at least a little while. Also to 
 PvP with other guilds as i said you must have a guild island and to purchase it it costs 2000g 
 and to design yor own cape (not needed for anything just for looks) costs 1000g.
  
  The campaign is horrible. The missions are boring despite what other people say (like saying that 
 thsi game has "unique" and "Special" quests that no other games have) and i just got bored of them 
 almost instantly. I only got to Old Ascalon and i didn't even have the will to go on the game just 
 got too boring wayyyyy too fast. Also the level cap is 20 which can be a good thing and a bad. 
 Good because you can get to it fast and bad because well i am going to explain that in my next 
 paragraph.
  
  The non PvP part of the game is a joke since this entire game is based around PvP. There really 
 is no point to play the campaign unless you are trying to have fun doing something other then PvP 
 (which is unlikely seeing how dull and boring it is) . There really is no point in getting to lvl20 
 since you can't lvl past that and there is no point in even trying to play after 20 since you should 
 PvP at lvl20 which is the whole point of even leveling you character to that in the first place. 
 But now whats the point of doing that when you can just make a character at lvl20 without having 
 to lvl him to 20 through that gruesome bore fest. This eliminates the need to lvl your character 
 to 20 since you can just make one at lvl20 already. Then when you do make a character at 20 all 
 you will do is PvP which will get boring pretty fast since thats all you will need to be doing. 
 
  
  Now The sound is weird and it feels like its not even there which is stupid and there is not combat 
 music either which feels dull. Plus the music just sucks and it keeps playing the same things over 
 and over and over. The graphics are good i will give it that that the water is gorgeous and the 
 scenery is amazing. 
  
  Skill... this game does not require as much skill as everyone says. I played and got to lvl 8 and 
 it was extremely easy and frankly i don't see a reason why it should get much harder later on. 
 All you do is click an enemy and just use your buffs and attack moves how the heck does it require 
 skill not even in PvP did i see a need for skill i won about 50% of the time its not that hard 
 you don't need a lot of skill to play this game. Also for the grouping its not as easy to find 
 a group as people say. You won't see a lot of "looking for group lvl7 ranger//warrior" or things 
 like that too much. Infact 80% of the time your screen will be flooded with "WTS wood or BUYING 
 IRON FOR XG!!".
  
  Now let me clear that whole "is this game MMORPG or not". It sort of is and then again it isn't. 
 Yes you do group with people and you kill monsters and you have a job to do (like keeping the casters 
 safe, or if you are a healer to heal the party) and you do PvP against others or with teams but 
 then again it isn't. The reason its not like a normal MMORPG is because the lack of exploring and 
 the fact that the only place you see people are in towns and outposts. The second you step outside 
 if you are not in a party you will not find a single person ANYWHERE. Also you can't jump, swim, 
 step over the smallest rocks, jump down the SMALLEST cliffs, and there are an insane number of 
 invisible walls.
  
  Overall this game isn't all too bad its just plain with not much content and things to do. However 
 it does offer free online gameplay and pretty fun PvP. There are much better online games other 
 then it right now but they are all PTP (pay to play if you did not know) .
  This game would suit you well if cannot pay monthly and want a MMORPG like experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: atmeclipse
Rating: 10
Date: May 9, 2005 2:28 am PT
Review:  I've played a lot of MMO games over the years, some pretty good (RO) some not so good (usually 
 the free ones) .
  Well, ArenaNet has completely changed what it means to be a no monthly fee online game!
  Usually 
 with free games, you get sub-par graphics, even in the high end ones, and little to no customer 
 support. Gameplay can range from good to subpar, but with most of these games, you wont get to 
 have all the fun, unless you pay them.
  
  The guys at ArenaNet apperantly used to work for Battle. net, so first off we know where they came 
 from, and its not a nameless in asia somewhere. lol
  
  Those of you that get Guild Wars (and I think anyone interested in MMOs should) will be immersed 
 into a world of artistic graphics, beautiful ambeint music, and a fun and invovative new take on 
 the MMO genre.
  The storyline of GW is written by a professional, and so was the music. And for the scenery in 
 the game, they had artists come up with everything before hand and based the graphics on it.
  The Graphics of GW are unique and new! The lighting and shadows, and the landscapes and people 
 are all part of a superve new graphics engine.
  
  I can't even begin to describe how awesome the gameplay is! I can say that something about the 
 quest system REALLY reminds me of the ps2 baulder's gate games. (even the music reminds me of those 
 XD) The Quests system is very simmilar to BG.
  This game is heavily based on quests and missions, the latter being to progress the story.
  This 
 is also more like a Team RPG than a true MMO, due to the fact that they've cleverly gotten rid 
 of the possibility of Kill Stealing! Thats right! When you leave towns, you are the ONLY person 
 out in the wild! You can, however, bring parties with you, and in that case they will also be in 
 the same 'dimension' XD as you.
  Don't like playing in parties with other people you say? Want to be cool and play alone, so you 
 can say you got as strong as you did by your self? Thats fine! You can solo, but better not forget 
 to bring Henchmen! Or else you'll not make it beyond the first few quests! Henchmen are NPCs that 
 can greatly improve your chances for survival. Plus, in an NPC party, there seems to sometimes 
 be easier monsters around. lol Don't worry about dying though, cause there really isn't much of 
 a death penalty! but you will lose some max health until you go back to town!
  
  Another interesting new take on the MMO in GWs is that there is no more lvling after lvl 20! thats 
 right, they caped it at 20! Well, then whats the fun you say? How can we enjoy progressing in the 
 game? lets say 150 skills to gain for EACH jobclass! and even though your lvl wont increase, you 
 do still gain exp and there are benifits to that!
  
  I don't know too much about the new technology they used in Guild Wars, but I do know that there 
 are no more update to wait for! and loading screens are extreamly short!
  Updates are streamed to you in the background, so you'll never notice them!
  And on top of all 
 that, they've managed to keep lag down to the lowest amount I've ever seen in an MMO! To date, 
 I haven't seen ANY!
  
  Well, for one of you out there that reviewed this, you gave it a 3. something... and I'm having 
 a hard time beleiving you even played the game. If your gonna call the story stupid, at LEAST know 
 what the story is about! and you must have no artistic tastes at all, to not appreciate the music, 
 story, and art of the game... If it wasn; t your kind of game, then what are you even doing playing 
 MMOs... Your review isn't even a review, just some spam because you want to give a good game that 
 everyone likes, a bad rating.
  
  Anyway... Guild Wars! Best online game ever!! I'm sure it will win tons of awards for 2005! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rabid_Possum
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 8, 2005 7:05 pm PT
Review:  I played World of Warcraft and i loved it. It was the best MMORPG to date. Well, that has changed. 
 At first i was sceptical of Guild Wars, thinking to myself how a Massively Multiplayer game could 
 succeed without a required monthly fee so the designers could fix problems in the game. Not only 
 is this game as perfect as a MMORPG can get, but also doesn't require a rediculous fee each month 
 to continue playing, a major turn-off for many gamers. This game is GoTY material, and is right 
 now my favorite game to date.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 10
  
  This game doesn't even need a manual. The interface is so easy to use and the controls so simplistic 
 my little brother could get used to it almost instantly. The character classes are extremely balanced, 
 with one never being more powerful than the other. The traveling system used in this game is probably 
 the most useful thing ever. In World of Warcraft, when you wanted to go somewhere, you either ran 
 for 10 minutes or payed money to take a transport, which took at least a minute of just flying 
 around. But in this game all you have to do is open the map, click where you want to go, and you're 
 there. Revolutionary.
  
  GRAPHICS: 9
  
  Beautiful, realistic graphics that give this game a really unique feel. At first, the environment 
 looks green and beautiful, giving you the sense of a real traquility in the world (There are literally 
 bees buzzing around, leaves falling off of beautiful trees, butterflys fluttering around and waterfalls 
 in the distance) . Then something happens in the game and the world goes dark and evil, with a real 
 sense of forboding and death. All in all the graphics are wonderful and give the game a real feeling 
 of something i can't put my finger on.
  
  SOUND: 9
  
  Great sound effects, like voiceovers and sword bashing and whatnot, especially when you're slashing 
 different enemies and each one has a particular sound to it (like when you're slashing flesh, there's 
 a nice slashing sound, but when you're striking a rock golem thingy, it sorta clinks off like it's 
 not doing much damage) . The musical score is good when it's actually playing (half the time there's 
 nothing) , but that really doesn't take away from the game.
  
  VALUE: 10
  
  It's a MMORPG, it has almost infinite value. Even when you complete the relatively short RPG version 
 of the game (you can only go up to level 20) , there's a PVP section where all the skills you get 
 during the game can be used to make an uber-character that's a level 20 and can't grow anymore. 
 You can pick what classes you want to be, what 8 skill you want and what equipment you have, and 
 you just battle 4 vs 4 where skill determines everything. EXTREMELY FUN!
  
  TILT: 10
  
  Like i said before, GoTY material right here. If you haven't bought it yet, get it now. It'll be 
 the funnest game you'll play this part of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thoriphes
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 8, 2005 6:53 pm PT
Review:  I was always interested in the concept of MMORPGs but I never liked the monthly fees that were 
 usually attached. Then I heard of this game, Guild Wars. I read into it and found that it had a 
 simple concept, the graphics were nice, and best of all, it was free of monthly fees. When I bought 
 it, I found that the game was nothing short of stunning. The Guild Wars doesn't drown you in gameplay 
 mechanics like other MMOs in the past have. The actions are simple, the interface is clear, and 
 managing in the game is a breeze. It never gets more complicated than possibly drag and drop. The 
 learning curve for this game should be no more than 10-15 minutes at most. 
  
  What sets this RPG apart from others is the fact that it seems very limited with options when in 
 fact there are a vast number possiblities to go about playing this game. Guild Wars allows you 
 to choose a primary and secondary skill class from a possibility of 6 classes. These classes range 
 from your brute strength to spell casters and healers. The developers have done an excellent job 
 in balancing these classes. No single warrior could ever overpower say a spell caster if the cards 
 are played out right. The main focus of the battle system is in the skills. You can only ever choose 
 up to 8 skills when going out in the field. This makes strategizing a bit more important. Since 
 you can choose two class skills, you have plenty of abilities at your disposal. It is up to you 
 to maximize effectiveness of your 8 skills while maintaining consumption or energy use. 
  
  The game has very good connection performance. The only lag that I have seen so far is in towns 
 where you are able to see everybody. These towns are usually jam packed with users buying skills 
 and weapons or armor. Being outside is a different story. Unlike other MMOs, the outside world 
 is "instanced" meaning it is created for your or your party's use only. You won't ever find anybody, 
 outside of your party, out in the world. This generally makes for a smooth, low latency gameplay 
 when out doing missions. The only real lag that would exist is that between you and your party 
 members. 
  
  This game is very group oriented. At first it would seem that you could tackle any mission by yourself. 
 But as the game progresses, you find that more and more enemies (even low level ones) start ganging 
 up on you, forcing you to find assistance. You can assemble parties inside towns and once outside, 
 they pretty much stay with you until they leave. If you never liked cooperating in games, you'll 
 definitely find it the most useful asset if you want to make the most out of this game. If you 
 find it a hassle to assemble a party, then you can use the game's "henchmen" or NPCs. These henchmen 
 have a really good AI. They'll attack only when and what you attack. Healers and archers will tend 
 to stay away from the main battle supporting and healing players from the back. The NPCs are good 
 if you just want to roam around the world looking for new areas and whatnot. They are limited in 
 level, though. They never level up as you do, and as a party, the XP and money gained from battles 
 are still split up evenly, even if they don't reap the benefits themselves.
  
  PVP is also another great feature in the game. It contains various types of matches so you don't 
 always have to go head to head with another character. In PVP, you are able to create a max level 
 character with attributes that you can unlock in the regular game. This is good in that everyone 
 who participates has the same base. It all boils down to how the players utilize their abilities. 
 
  
  Guild Wars is an overall excellent game for people who enjoy MMOs and even those who don't. The 
 missions are never bland or repetitive and there's always something to do. It is very easy to pick 
 up this game and play for hours a sitting. So far I've convinced two of my friends to buy this 
 game and they absolutely love it. Just remember, no monthly fees. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: russlc
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 8, 2005 6:49 pm PT
Review:  I will admit even though I am a huge World of Warcraft fan, I did have to check this title out. 
 I will not compare the two (because they are different) but I will admit I am jaded based on my 
 experiences with WoW...
  
  Guildwars is good fun, although it is easy fun. The design is very clean and easy to get into. 
 It doesn't take a lot of time to invest. It is more along the lines of a "RPG" rather than a "MMORPG". 
 There is no monthly fee - which is amazing. Getting around is a breeze. 
  
  However, if you are a hardcore MMORPG player, GW will probably disappoint. The world is big but 
 is it not a seemless as I would have hoped. You can't go everywhere and there are definate paths 
 to walk. The quests are very straight forward and don't add much new. There are plenty of loads 
 screens (although they are short) . I definately didn't feel the same kind of "attachment" to my 
 char as in other MMORPGs. You can only be human and there are no other choice but the typical male/female, 
 hair, face, etc. Also, I would be concerned that the community will not be as "mature" due to the 
 fact there is no monthly fee - but only time will tell that. The combat seems very bland but I 
 will admit I only have 40 hours or so into the game.
  
  IMHO... if you are a hardcore MMORPG gamer - this may not be the title you for. If you like Diablo 
 style RPGs and want to experience a degree of MMOs, then GW is a good buy. I am not sure why Gamespot 
 gave it a 9.2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JediMasterJelin
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 2, 2006 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a difficult game to describe because there has never been a game quite like it before. 
 You play a warrior of Ascalon, a beautiful kingdom with a pest problem: a barbaric monster race 
 called the Charr. The game begins with the king of Ascalon ordering that all the bravest, strongest, 
 and smartest report for military duty against the Charr. Of course, things escalate as soon as 
 you are recruited. 
  
  At the start of the game, you choose a primary profession (Warrior, Ranger, Monk, Elementalist, 
 Necromancer, Mesmer) and your appearance. Done. No worrying that you've assigned stats badly, no 
 poor combinations of skills that sounded good, just a simple risk-free choice. You can also choose 
 to start with a max level character, which is a lot more involved but lets you skip right to the 
 PvP portion of the game.
  Leveling up your character is also easy and risk free. When you level, just assign any points earned 
 to your skills, like "Fire Magic" or 'Swordsmanship," and keep going in the game. If you assign 
 points to the wrong skill or decide later that you want to change your character around, every 
 level you get a bunch of "attribute refunds" that allow you to get as many points back as you put 
 into the skill. 
  
  The gameplay is equally streamlined. You are allowed to bring eight different skills, including 
 one "elite" skill, into every area you go. These skills will let you preform special hammer bashes, 
 cast healing spells, summon undead minions, ect. What this means is that your Elementalist/Monk 
 may be the same level as some other Elementalist/Monk, but you could have Fire and Healing spells 
 while the other guy has Earth and Smiting spells. 
  Another great aspect of the game is that level is so unimportant in the overall game. The max level 
 is only 20, and you should be able to reach it in around 35 hours of gameplay. Each level is fairly 
 insignificant because it only translates to raising a single skill by one point. This means that 
 if you are level 16 and great at Guild Wars, and your opponent selected a pre-built level 20 character 
 but hasn't played much, you're probably going to kill him before he knows what happened. Of course, 
 no profession is even partially self-sufficent. Fighting in the arena is impossible without a coordinated 
 and diverse team to back you up. 
  
  The graphics in Guild Wars are the best in an RPG to date. The character models are well-detailed 
 and move fairly well. The graphics of Guild Wars are truly in it's backgrounds. The areas are amazing 
 to behold and perfectly set the tone of the game. The entire game is artistically blurred to give 
 it a dreamlike quality which is just wonderful. Not only that, Guild Wars runs great even on lower-end 
 systems. As great as it's graphics are, they just can't match up to Doom 3 and Half-Life 2. If 
 there were a 9.5 for graphics, Guild Wars would be it.
  
  The music of Guild Wars doesn't disappoint either. It fits in well with the fantasy feel and does 
 a great job of setting the mood for the game. There isn't very much of it however, and you'll probably 
 get tired of hearing the same tracks over and over. The game also includes voice acting. It's a 
 nice touch, but the actors sound a little silly most of the time.
  
  The PvE section fo Guild Wars will take you more than 50 hours, and you could easily sink another 
 50 into the equally-engaging PvP. The gameplay is very original, addictive, and most importantly, 
 fun. It's graphics and sound certainly aren't let downs either. With no monthly fees and it's fast-paced 
 combat, Guild Wars will likely be the beginning of a new era of online RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ian73
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 7, 2005 9:20 pm PT
Review:  What can i say about Guild Wars? I could say its one of the coolest and best MMORPG-ish game ever. 
 Yeah, i think ill leave it like that.
  
  Guild Wars is amazing.. Beautiful graphics, Wonderful gameplay, and Great sound. i mean the difficulty 
 is just there and the game alone will likely last up to hours and hours at a time. The game has 
 2 modes.. a Role Playing Mode and a PvP mode. Even though i havent played the PvP mode yet, ive 
 heard some good things about it.
  
  The roleplaying part is great. you start out as being either a Warrior, Mesmer, Ranger, Necromancer, 
 Elementalist, or a Monk. Then after you progress, you get to pick one more profession. I myself 
 chose Warrior / Monk.
  
  I say if you had to pick anygame at this point.. Guild Wars is the game to choose! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j-miller
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2005 8:59 am PT
Review:  Nowadays role playing has gave me nothing but greif because they're always ending up as lack lusting 
 titles (like Dungeon Lords and the fasinating yet lagging title Boiling Point) . Fortunentaly Guild 
 Wars was not one of those titles and it's a surprisingly good game bugged by some minor flaws. 
 The plot is a bit like Lord of the Rings set in a post apocalyptic fantasy realm ruled by swords 
 and sorcery, warriors and wizards, and dungeons and dragons (hah, forgot to laugh) . There are six 
 character classes: Warrior, Ranger, Monk, Necromancer, Mesmer, and Elementalist each have their 
 own strengths and weaknesses. For intense warriors can dish out the pain in close quarters but 
 with Mesmers and Elementalists it's the other way around. One thing I like about Guild Wars is 
 the solid gameplay and how well the controls work. Another thing that I like and probably the main 
 reason why I play this all the time are your options to choose a secondary profession. This means 
 that you can be a warrior/elementalist or a monk/necro which really helps when fighting big bada** 
 monsters. Also the graphics are to die for which is all I can say about that. There are flaws I 
 forgot to mention you about and is that the sound and music's a little repetitive and there's not 
 enough character customization. Also I wish the ranger was capable of turning into a werewolf or 
 a werepanther (the werepanther should be for the ladies since the cat describes a female ranger 
 perfectly) . Despite of all that complaining about my ranger chick not being able to turn into a 
 panther woman I still like this game..............." A WHOLE LOT! I MEAN A  
 LOT. Thank you and good night cause your gonna need it because last night you were playing an all 
 nighter weren't cha, WEREN'T CHA! HAH I KNEW IT SCORE ONE FOR THE JONMISTA! What?! Are people gonna 
 read this? Ohhhhhhh s**t I feel like a nerd but wait I'm darn proud of it soooooooooooooooooo BUG 
 OFF B**CH'S! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaxPower562
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 5, 2005 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Guildwars offers many set up for the PvP including everything from 4 man randomly assigned teams 
 to 8 man arranged teams with both straight pvp and some objective maps. The game looks and plays 
 absolutly great. The PvP is good for endless hours of fun at almost all levels. As a bonus the 
 PvP also gives some exp so you can level that way.
  
  Overall, it's just great so far and I haven't even gotten to the guild on guild action yet. The 
 set up where you can start at level twenty is pretty nice. It isn't all that good without doing 
 some the story because a level 20 is mostly usless with almost no skills, but it does not take 
 long at all (a few hours) to unlock enough skills to be effective in PvP. You won't beat everyone 
 with just a few skills, but you can actually out skill some people with your underdeveloped character. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L33tBudDha
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 5, 2005 6:47 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  1) Graphics - Whether or not you like the game Guild Wars has one thing that everyone should agree 
 on and that is how beautiful the art work is. The artists have outdone themselves with their work 
 especially the vibrant colors and large (looking) environments. The backgrounds are very well done 
 making you think the world is quite large even though you are confined to an obvious space (no 
 falling off cliffs and what not) .
  
  2) Game play - The game is easy to play and pick up but as gamespot's review indicates mastering 
 the game is another story. Controlling your movement couldn't be easier as you can use your mouse 
 to move, keys to move, and even set an automove key. Targeting is easy as point and click or set 
 hot keys to target. You get the ability to pre-set equipment load outs as well which is an outstanding 
 feature. PvP is difficult to pick up for PvP newbies and vets will need about 10 hours to become 
 competitive but then it's "on" from there.
  
  3) PvP - If you are like me then you have no had a good PvP experience in an MMORPG since the early 
 days of Ultima Online before their dev team changed for the 100000th time and eliminated the days 
 of tank mage and replaced it with dex monkey point and click warfare. Guild Wars brings back the 
 art of skillful combat in an MMORPG. The battles can be quick or long depending on the players 
 skill levels. The matches can be made up of absolutely bizarre class combinations or ideal load 
 outs that cover all their needs. With the variety of classes and the addition of sub classes gaining 
 experience in battle is a MUST to become a great PvP'er in Guild Wars. And it's group combat think 
 DAoC meets UO who had a slight affair with Dungeon Siege...
  
  4) Performance - This game loads very well and plays well. You will not need a hard-core gaming 
 box to play this game though you will need at least a 2ghz p4 or comparable processor with an FX 
 quality graphics card and a gig of ram probably possibly 512 might do it. The game runs fast and 
 smooth no big load issues. In areas where there are 30+ people all moving around I noticed a very 
 negligible drop in performance nothing significant.
  
  5) The little things - They did a good job at figuring out what were some of the pet peeves of 
 other RPG's and MMORPG's and put them to rest in Guild Wars. If you visit a city you can now travel 
 to it by clicking it on your map. No more having to run fro place to place that you have already 
 been to. I hated having to travel through 10 minutes of n00b areas just to deliver something to 
 an NPC. You can only travel to cities you have been to before not to new ones. Pre-set load outs 
 always a plus! Here's my bow, here's my sword and shield, here's my two handed F U axe, and all 
 I have to do is click a button and they are unloaded and loaded.
  
  6) Value - Unmatched in it's value due to the fact it has something for both fans of RPG's and 
 fans of PvP combined with no monthly fee.
  
  The Bad:
  
  1) Pathing - The pathing in the game is poor. I've attacked things that seem to run around invisible 
 square objects before getting to me, mind you it's on a flat surface so it really looks bizarre.
 
  
  The Ugly:
  
  1) NPC AI - NPC's often forget you need to do something before you can continue a quest with them 
 and instead give you dialog to a part of the quest you should not be able to get. NPC A tells you 
 to take item A to NPC B. Well, talk to NPC A before you deliver to NPC B and you get the dialog 
 for the next phase of the quest that you shouldn't get. This happens more often than I would think 
 since BETA is over. Also, NPC's often don't talk to you at all which is rude! lol This is not a 
 big problem but it is a let down when you see a random farmer or townsfolk walking around and when 
 you get to them they do not respond to your attempts to communicate.
  
  Guild Wars is simply fun and has something for everyone and free from a monthly fee which shows 
 to me that my suspicions that the MMORPG's really make a buck off their monthly fee more so than 
 they should.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jameswatson
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 5, 2005 2:27 pm PT
Review:  No servers to choose from. You get in the game and that's it, you're in! Have a friend who signed 
 up? Don't worry about which server he's on, you're all on the same one! Login at 5am when only 
 a handful of people are in the game, and you can easily find a team because you're ALL ON THE SAME 
 SERVER! It's a great idea that other developers will soon copy.
  
  Everything is an instance. You go into your mission and don't worry about somebody else running 
 along and killing everything before you get to it, or taking your treasure while you're fighting 
 off the bad guys.
  
  Multiclassing offers a great deal of variety to your character. You can mix and match to get many, 
 many combinations and find one that suits you the best.
  
  The skills system is limited in the fact that you can only have 8 powers at a time. I'm not sure 
 if that's good or bad at this point, but I imagine I won't like that at later levels when I have 
 100 skills but can only use 8 at any one time.
  
  The character modelling is limited at this time. Because this is NCSoft I expect that to change. 
 However, after awhile you can get dyes to change the color of your armor and make yourself stand 
 out more.
  
  There is no mining, tailoring, feeding your pets, etc. GW gets rid of most of those little things 
 in the game. That may prove to be problematic long-term. When I was playing WoW I was kind of getting 
 into the tailoring aspect of the game, but in GW I don't have that option.
  
  There is no vertical combat (dragons swooping down to attack you) . This part is just like WoW. 
 The game is, in fact, extremely similar to WoW but without many of the annoying issues like lag, 
 limited appearances, cartoonish landscape, spending a half hour travelling from point-to-point, 
 frustration trying to figure out where to go to finish your missions, etc. 
  
  I would recommend this game to anybody who is tired of the typical WoW grind. GW is mostly a photocopy 
 of WoW but without all the messy edges. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashbecker
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2005 7:31 am PT
Review:  Fast paced and easy to learn, yet providing depth on character development like any other MMOGs. 
 Guild Wars is the next best thing I have seen in MMO after Dark Age of Camelot. It features a fast 
 paced, downtime-less combat system. Dynamic and interesting quest plots. Instanced zones to suit 
 your solo or grouping needs, thank god for no longer having to wait for spawn and compete over 
 quest mobs. Everything that Guild Wars provides could keep you hooked for hours of non-stop playing. 
 But most important of all, there's no monthly fee, which is the reason why I decided to try it 
 out.
  
  The core combat system is very "Diablo-lish", while the quest and equipment crafting system are 
 something close to "Monster hunter" on PS2. 
  
  Given I had a bad track record with NCSoft's games, such as Lineage 2 and City of Heroes. Guild 
 Wars is surprisingly good. I would recommend this game to those who grows to like Diablo type of 
 game and console game fans who love instant actions instead of slow paced waiting type of MMO.
 
  
  The only improvement I would like to see now, is more classes/skills selections and perhaps, a 
 way to duel-wielding swords. Ain't it will be cool! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_of_Dark
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2005 4:50 am PT
Review:  i think this is an excellent game. Everything from the story to the graphics to the gameplay... 
 Its all just top notch high quality stuff. I have played many MMORPGs, this one is my favortie 
 next to WOW. I have so much fun playing everytime i log on, its like a tornado of things that you 
 can do. First off, the graphics are INSANE, stuff ranging from light bloom, to dialogue, to the 
 characters and animations themselves. The gameplay is excellent, but to be honest, I though WOW's 
 gameplay was better, but this plays in a different way, so I have no place to judge, and i won't. 
 Third, the sound. Its excellent, orchestra themed music, it sometimes fits in some parts, but sometimes 
 doesn't, i think this is the only real weak point of the game, but all-around the audio is excellent. 
 The overlasting value of this game comes from its profession system and of course the PvP. The 
 pvp is quick, fun, and simple to initiate. The profession system is cool as well, as you can only 
 have 8 skills in your skill bar at a time so you have to be wise and choose the best ones for you, 
 and the combinations of professions make this alot more enjoyable. This is one of the top games 
 i have in my library, its really awesome and shouldn't be missed by anyone into pc gaming. Plus... ITS 
 FREE!!!! I highly suggest you pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakasm
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 5, 2005 4:23 am PT
Review:  Currently I am a level 11 player - with an extra PVP Only (LvL 20 character) . I made two to see 
 both sides of the game to make sure that my review was as accurate as can be - as I hate to try 
 to have to update these. I will do so if I find anything to be said in my later playing..... 
 
  
  - Let's talk a technical for a sec -
  
  Guild Wars got me hooked on graphics alone. I hate to say it but I was not going to get this game 
 as a few people I know played the beta and said it was "So-so". Two days after it released and 
 about 200 screenshots later... I had to try the game. I went on Arenanet - downloaded the game 
 (which took literally 10 seconds!) - purchased a unique ID - (about 3-4 minutes) - and with about 
 another 3-4 minute wait I was already at the login Screen. I was waiting for the extra long installation 
 that was undoubtedly going to happen (Final Fantasy XI Took almost four hours for me to install 
 on release!) yet to my suprise - this was the actual game! 
  
  From a technical standpoint this is quite amazing as the graphics of this game beat out every MMO 
 I have played yet. Very attractive with very little installation time. No lag what so ever - and 
 I don't even use a top of the line computer to play this game (I use my laptop!) . I noticed the 
 actual gamespot review mentioned that entering and exiting the game is almost instantaneous - and 
 they aren't lying! 
  
  Now to the actual gameplay....
  
  Creating a Character....
  
  You start up with a limited number of physical character creation options which is sad because 
 having a lot of models would boost this game's already unique set-up. You get the choice of a PVE 
 character which starts at level 1 or an already boosted character that is already level 20. This 
 level 20 character is STRICTLY for use in a PVP setting while the level one can be used in both. 
 
  
  The game itself starts out with a few "Warcraft 3"-esque cut scenes and pushes you to learn about 
 the game. There are tips as you play and you early on are herded into learning a second profession 
 as well as performing quest after quest to learn the mechanics of the game. 
  
  The World you live in....
  
  The set-up of the game is an odd mixture of MMO and that of diablo 
 2, PSO, and Monster Hunter. If anything - this is what Phantasy Star Online wished to accomplish 
 back in the day of it's creation. Oddly enough with all these elements - the game almost feels 
 like a console RPG at times while you are in instanced parts of the worlds and you only see NPC 
 players. 
  
  Towns are basically Meeting points where all the other people in the world are playing. These towns 
 - or districts - have multiple copies of them. If one gets full - like "Town A" you get pushed 
 into "Town B" which is an exact copy of the town - just with different users. You can switch Freely 
 from "Town A - B - C" etc. The different is that the world is full with these towns spread throughout 
 the world. MANY. Some are kingdoms, some are towns, others are just small outposts and trading 
 havens where your adventure takes you. Once you visit a town you can teleport to previous ones 
 instantly - but you have to discover them first. 
  
  If you venture out of the town you are imediately instanced into the world. This means the long 
 trek from Town A to City B only contains you and your party members. It is in these large locations 
 that you can forget you are playing a game full with other people and can get lost in exploration 
 if you so choose. 
  
  Character Development.....
  
  As you have probably read - you can only hold 8 skills at any time. However - you can unlock hundreds 
 of skills throughout the game's varous quests and missions. Some skills are suited for PVE while 
 others are suited for PVP. Each fall under their own class - IE. Fire magic, Blood Magic... etc. 
 You character's "Stats" affect each of the various class. 
  
  My current character for instance is an E/N - Elementalist/Necromancer (Just chose two classes 
 at random) . Elementalists use Fire, Water, Earth, ice, Lightning - etc to attack and have a stat 
 point for each of these classes. A Necromancer uses Hex's, Blood Magic, Curses, etc and I also 
 have stat points for these as well. Currently I have raised the points I have in Fire and Blood 
 magic to lvl 5. This means all my fire spells and vampire spells (ones that drain and steal HP) 
 do more damage. So instead of a Fire spell doing 20 points of damage, they now do 32 points. I 
 can still use my earth, ice, curses, hex's, etc - but they just aren't boosted. 
  
  This leaves for almost an infinate (or seemingly) amount of customization. You can swap your spells 
 and skills at will and even change your stats if you choose to become an Ice user later on and 
 pump points into those skills. I find that i still use my other skills - especially in PVP (more 
 on later) . 
  
  The game's story really really really pushes you to explore the game slowly. I refuse to have elements 
 of the game's story ruined for you - the reader - like it was for me... but I implore you to attempt 
 the game's story without getting it ruined by others. (It's hard with all the shouting and questions 
 you get from other players) . I assure you that your first experience will be best if you have the 
 least amount of story ruined for you as some of the games pushing elements are sort of shockers 
 your first time through. 
  
  PvP...
  
  I have yet to participate in the actual Guild vs Guild action as you have to actually REACH your 
 guild hall (even if you do get invited to one early on) . However - early on in the game are pvp 
 arena's for "Noobs" and even the story makes you go through some simulations of pvp. This is the 
 first game where PVP at a lower level is still fun (Unlike WoW where level is really an issue until 
 you get to lvl 60) . 
  
  My experience so far really dives into exploration of your skills. My first few times at PVP were 
 ok - intimdating - but i found I would either win or lose without any real explanation as to why. 
 Early pvp pits you with random teamates in arena battlefields - so you do not get to choose strategy 
 or anything of the like. 
  
  Once I gained more skills (I currently only have about 50) the gameplay really opened up. I started 
 experimenting with skills i never used before. I gained more armor which had bonus' against different 
 elements and set them my swap commands (which are built in) . Soon I began to come up with good 
 combinations and I started to find I was becoming a powerhouse. I soon won 11 matches in a row 
 with a group of well rounded players and I felt alive playing this game - even at such an early 
 stage!!
  
  To give an idea of my combination I will describe my skills. 
  
  Currently (And forgive my use of their actual names - they have a "?" after them - they may be 
 incorrect and made up! - as I am not playing the game right now) I have certain key skills. I describe 
 them also....
  
  Vampiric Blast and Hex. - These steal life from enemies for me and refresh my own life. One does 
 it over time (giving me 2 hp per second) and one does it in one burst (stealing 32 hp for me and 
 giving it to me. 
  
  Flare - does 30 dmg from a fireball
  
  Flare Radius? - Does 15 dmg per second in a radius around me
  
  Earth Totem? - Puts a totem 
 on the ground which makes people run 50% slower
  
  Red Spell Refresh? - All spells I cast give 169% of health equal to the energy cost (So if something 
 costs 20 energy - i get 36 health also)
  
  Raise - Can be used to raise a teamate one time - can only be used once
  
  Fire Storm - Shoots 
 fire in an area doing 15 dmg per second in an area around target
  
  
  These are the skills I use now which make me strong. It took a LOT of time to figure out how to 
 use these (especially the Flare Radius and Earth Totem ones which their real names escape me at 
 the moment) . Warriors who used to kill me now die as they double team me. Why? 
  
  -First I hex them - each one - so I get 4hp per second
  - I cast Flare Radius - which starts 
 to hit them for a lot of hp per second.
  - I drop an Earth Totem making it hard for them to run.
  - I then chase one with Vampiric Blast 
 and Flare (which have long range) And finish them off.
  - Sometimes I am lucky and they think they can kill me - usually two fire radius? kill them!
 
  
  With this one combo - I generally can kill two people at once with full health as I am getting 
 health from a lot of places!
  
  
  DOn't be fooled however. As great of a combo I discovered - there are combos that easily defeat 
 me. Sometimes a Warrior/Elementalist has "protect from elemental damage" which nulifies my fire 
 or they can heal themselves faster than I do damage if they are a Warrior/Monk. Sometimes an archer 
 will jump in and set his pet on me while blasting me from affar making me have to retreat. Oftentimes 
 I get support from someone with Ice slowing escapees get away. Other times I get killed by two 
 Necromancers who steal my life back with hexs and vampiric touch allowing me to not be able to 
 heal. 
  
  These are just some of the millions of variations and experiences I am sure that could happen. 
 It can be very overwhelming - which is why I can't wait to get with guildies who will provide the 
 correct support (or allow me to support them!)
  
  
  
  All in all - this game is very entertaining. No monthly fee either and tons of content that I still 
 have yet to explore.... I have no idea how long this game will "last" as some MMO's start off great 
 and die quickly. Yet... Most reviews are off first impressions and this is a strong strong first 
 impression. 
  
  
  Negatives -
  
  - Hard to invite/find teamates
  - People can be very unfriendly at times - leaving and quitting during missions and quests
  - 
 People hate to lose and leave as soon as they die once in PVP even though the tide of battle can 
 change all the time
  - you can't jump which makes these really huge worlds seem small as you are herded through paths 
 often
  - Prince Rurik (NPC) is nuts and oftentimes attacks hordes of monsters solo - bad idea 
  prince!
 
  - You can't command your henchmen 
  - You can get stuck easily in the environment
  - Music is repetative 
  - The game needs more unique armor
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: meegs_6sic6
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 4, 2005 9:34 am PT
Review:  Now, Guild Wars is a new game on the market that abandons alot of what we have come to expect from 
 MMORPG's. It no longer takes you 200+ hours of gameplay just so you can get your character to the 
 maxumum level and enjoy the more interesting parts of the game. In Guild Wars the game is fun from 
 the outset, the first area of the game is a kind of training area, in which you learn how the interface, 
 gameplay and character building works. This is a very fun area because its not too hard but the 
 missions can still be challenging. Then once your character reaches level 5 or 6 you can move onto 
 the next area, and in a way, the real game. This begins with a short 2 minute PvP battle and then 
 a short kill quest. After this it becoms a whole new game, You don't even have to worry about level, 
 because a level 5 can group with a level 15 and still be just as much help. But saying that, it 
 dosent even take you that long to get your character to the max level, I have had the game since 
 Friday 29th April and Just playing for about 4 hours a day i have managed to get my character to 
 level 13, which means i only have 7 levels untill level 20. And i am in no great hurry to get there, 
 Of course getting to level 20 is a great thing because thats when the main bulk of the PvP can 
 take place, but i am having so much fun doing the missons and quests with my guild, i dont even 
 care what level i am. And thats what makes this game so much fun. Time and time again i have found 
 myself playing MMORPG's and getting so bored and frustrated just running arround and killing stuff 
 for 8 hours or more just to gain 1 stinking level.
  
  I would reccomend GW to anyone, If your playing games like World of Warcraft, Dark Age of Camelot 
 etc. Cancel your subscriptions and buy GW. It's only 20 to buy and there are no subscription fee's. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doomslayer
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 4, 2005 3:28 am PT
Review:  No more treadmilling, No more idiots camping on quest locations, No more Idem thiefs, endless buying 
 and selling. No more having to play forever before you have a decent charactor. I hope all of the 
 other mmog's learn a lesson or just become irelevant.
  
  I knew this was going to be sooooo much better than WOW hope all of you enjoy paying forever muhahahaha. 
 this is not the first game with a large online component with no monthly fee (diablo II , Dungeon 
 Siege ) to name a few so don't say it will never work, both of of the afore mentioned games still 
 have large online communitys 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Danny14
Rating: 7
Date: May 4, 2005 1:58 am PT
Review:  this game looked really good before it came out but when i got it it was another story. Dont get 
 me wrong i do like this game but it just is not what i wanted. Now i know there are so many people 
 who think this game is so good but i dont get it the Pve part of the game is lacking i think. To 
 group in this game is a quest in its self. The items are lame and the moves are so so. its not 
 that fun but if you like the free monthly go for it.
  
  Now i must say i did not play the game that much and i play WOW so i dident really give it a shot. 
 So this is just what i think of the game and i know alot of people like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dslyderink
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 3, 2005 10:47 pm PT
Review:  I play World of Warcraft. Alot. So when taking the seat in front of Guild Wars, the inevitable 
 "does it do this, does it do that" immediately became a part of my first few hours of playtime. 
 In the end, Guild Wars doesn't do much of what makes Warcraft such a great game, and conversely, 
 Warcraft doesn't do much of what makes Guild Wars such a great game. The best approach is not which 
 is better, or which game you will play, but to simply play them BOTH for their strengths depending 
 entirely on your mood at the time. Seeing as there are no monthly fees for Guild Wars, this decision 
 won't affect your wallet.
  
  Guild Wars graphics are superb, the combat engine is quick and fun, interaction with the masses 
 are contained in manageable 'districts', and the trading system is simple yet comprehensive. I 
 would like to see an auction house I must mention, and also the chat/party system could be improved 
 for better distinguishing of who is who when talking/trading/partying. Armor, skills, professions, 
 dyes, attributes, PvP, GvG, RP - all make this game packed full of angles that complement the combat-side 
 of the game very well.
  
  I will say one thing about the combat that I would like to see improved - and that is target selection. 
 It is MANUAL - you have to press C/TAB (then SPACE) or mouse click to select and attack each enemy 
 in turn, the engine does not automatically move on to the next closest target. This can be frustrating 
 in intense battles when you find yourself standing still like a moron because you didn't choose 
 your next enemy to bash up. A small gripe and I say it because I yearn for this game to be perfect.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phantom_2003
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 3, 2005 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Graphics:
  When I first started playing Guild Wars, I was surprised at it's attention to detail that many 
 games are lacking nowadays. How many games do you see anymore where every blade of grass, every 
 leaf on a tree, and every ripple in a river are paid attention by game makers? Not a whole lot. 
 What also impressed me was the fact that all of these detail intensive graphics did not tax my 
 3 year old graphics card. The game runs incredibly smooth on my computer at high quality, a computer 
 that normally has trouble with games like The Sims 2 and Black & White at lowest quality. 
  
  Sound:
  Guild Wars has a wonderful collection of soundtracks for each area, some for plains, 
 some for the mountains, some for the labyrinths, some for the cities, etc. The fighting sound effects 
 are also varied in a healthy way to keep battles from becoming boring, with varied growls from 
 each of the game's monsters as you hack and slash (or cast spells on, or sic your pet on, or shoot 
 arrows at, etc.) enemies throughout the areas in the game.
  
  Value:
  Guild Wars is big. When I say big, I really mean BIG. in about a week of playing, it seems as though 
 I haven't even made a dent in the world map. The only problem in this department is that there 
 is a level cap of 20 (I'm assuming this will not be changed, you never know) . When you get bored 
 fighting monsters, there is a well made and organized PvP arena so you can hack away at your friends 
 whenever you like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TiamatDraconis
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 3, 2005 6:44 am PT
Review:  I'll make this short, because all of you have plenty other reviews you can weigh along with this 
 one before making the decision. I will say one thing though... This game is worth playing. No monthly 
 fee, beutiful graphics, unique item system, addictive multiplayer and guild support, and a huge 
 world.
  
  World of warcraft is great and has many battle features that aren't included in Guild Wars, such 
 as a clear party panel with easy healing access and a clever aggro control system, but many things 
 make Guild Wars worth playing just as much, if not, more so than the costly World of Warcraft. 
 One major thing that makes it stand apart from world of warcraft is its skill system. No longer 
 do you have to stick with one party role. You may decide on two different classes to combine in 
 infinite ways; IE; You may be a healing summoner of the undead or a warrior with control of fire 
 magic. The possibilities are nearly endless. Each class has around 100 skills, but you may only 
 equip 8 at one time, forcing you to use strategetic combinations for each mission. Skills may only 
 be swapped at outposts and cities.
  
  I've taken a bit off the gameplay marks because of a tricky targeting system (as compared to World 
 of Warcraft) . Regardless of this flaw, if you like MMO games or RPGs like Diablo 2, you should 
 pick up and enjoy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mrgrimm312
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 3, 2005 5:54 am PT
Review:  Up toe the launch of the game I was hearing rave reveiws about this game. So I figured i would 
 give it a shot.
  
  --The install doesnt take long at all. The first load times for all zones may take a while but 
 after yoru first load they will be saves to yoru computer making them load faster.
  --You start out the game by customizing your character and choosing a Main Profession.
  The characters 
 look absolutely great. Realistic as can be right now. 
  -The quest are straight forward and you cant get lost on them to long simply because when you highlight 
 quest in the Log it will point you in a direction.
  --Everytime you load into a zone where there is Mob's/Enemy. That zone is specifically made for 
 you. So theres no one else in it. No Ganking Worries or anything of that sort.
  --There seems to be a good story mode so far. Actuall cinematic trailers show some of the story 
 but you play most of it out. 
  -- Level 20 is the highest lvl right now. And tons of skills that need to be learned and unlocked 
 by questing.
  
  ====Cons=====
  - Great looking game
  - Lots of skills
  - Actually takes skill in PvP to do good
  - Most classes cant completely cominate the other
 
  - Nice quest system
  - No worries about KS'ing or any of that sort
  - Story is relatively good. 
  
  ===Pros===
  - Extremely Quest Based (takes very long to lvl 
 by killing)
  -- Sometimes i like to go kill stuff to level. Not worry abotu travel and quest.
  - If your not 
 a person to shout for groups. Gets boaring being by yourself.
  - Max LvL of 20 right now. (Lots of people already have got to that)
  - It feels as if you dont 
 get stronger. 
  - Everything is expesnive while most dont pay out
  -- Armor is expensive for a full set. Honestly it dont make a differance at lvl 12 where im at 
 right now. So why did i spend aver 1200 on it who knows.
  - Very little skill points given
  
  
  ::CONCLUSION::
  If your looking for a change in an MMO/RPG this can get you a quick fix. 
 
  This game is relative good all around. But i feel as if theres something missing. It seems slow 
 in a way no enough action. (except PvP) . So if you dont enjoy questing constantly this game is 
 not for you. BUT WHO CAN BEAT FREE ONLINE PLAY???? its a game that you can always play with freedom 
 and no worries about having to play it. BUT LIKE I SAID IN RPG "it just doesnt feel like you get 
 stronger" you still have to fight lvl 3 when yoru lvl 15 not that great when you actually dont 
 kill them in one hit.
  
  PS i havent seen how the guild system and such will be wokring Such as wars and such it will be 
 interesting to find out. Im a lvl 12 Ranger/Mesmer lvl 10 warrior/monk lvl 9 Necromancer/Elemntalist. 
 Ranger/mesmer definatly does most effective damage. Also has +7 HP regen rate.
  
  If you trust me as a reveiw please express it. I Give all honest opinions and try my best not to 
 be to byest in one way.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackLabel677
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 3, 2005 3:56 am PT
Review:  4 days of playing and I cannot stop. There are tons of factors that make this game outstanding 
 and addictive.
  
  For anyone who has played SpellForce, they will find a familiar experience in this game. The roleplaying 
 elements of Guild Wars seem very derivative of SpellForce (except for the Real-Time Strategy elements 
 of the game) . Ironically, the environments seem just as familiar, just spruced up a lot.
  
  Speaking of the environment, Guild Wars is gorgeous. You might find yourself wandering around just 
 to check out the scenery. Enough said, you have to check it out. The light bloom and the sun rays 
 emerging through holes on the roofs of caverns is almost breaktaking. Not to mention details like 
 springs and dripping wet ceilings of the caverns too. As you begin the real story, it is a lot 
 gloomier, but you will recognize familiar landmarks and paths regardless. Amazing job.
  
  As a fan of singleplayer games (and free multiplayer games) , this game fits into my category perfectly. 
 It is not the same old slow hack and slash game. You don't even need to sit down to gain health. 
 This game is as fast paced as a platform game such as Beyond Good And Evil. Back on topic, for 
 singleplayer fans, you get a nice ragtag group of henchmen (similar to Freedom Fighters) . Using 
 them, you can do all of the sidequests at your own pace. If you are lost without other human players, 
 you can form a party and perform these tasks together, but a lot more patience is required.
  
  There are ungodly amounts of sidequests in the game (for any Fallout fans out there) . You will 
 have a list of about 10 before you can even really start executing them.
  
  The level cap is twenty. This seems very low. It will surely take quite some time to get to level 
 20, but I'm a lot of incentive on the roleplaying mode dissipates. Unless you have not collected 
 all your skills yet, finished all the quests you want to, or even haven't gotten the best equipment, 
 but I have not reached this level so I am speaking out of assumptions.
  
  This game is highly replayable. With each class, different NPCs give you different skills and quests. 
 Not to mention the vast array of skills each class has. I'll spare you the review on the multi-class 
 and 8 skill system because it is in many other reviews.
  
  Learning curve is moderately steep for those who have not played this style of game before (for 
 the most part, the style is pretty unique) . This is because you are thrown into the world with 
 little knowledge of what you are doing. The most annoying part of learning is trying to find out 
 what acceptable prices for your goods are when selling to other players. I can never figure out 
 MMORPG economies.
  
  There is a whole other mode where you start at the max level and just PvP, but I haven't tried 
 that yet, and besides other reviews cover that as well.
  
  Music is weak. For that matter so is sound. Neither are essential at all to play the game. You 
 get subtitles for cutscenes, and dialogues are not spoken. So pop open Winamp and start blasting 
 your favorite music while playing this game. You do not even need a sound card to enjoy this game, 
 it is enjoyable enough already.
  
  If you read my review first, check out other reviews for such things as -Secondary Professions, 
 Salvaging, Identifiable Objects, Crafting, Weapon Customization, Account-Based Storage Bins, Skills 
 and Types of Skills, Strategy Elements, Storyline, The World Map, Teleporting Between Landmarks, 
 Dyes and Customization, Attributes, and any other questions you may have-
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fast_Eddie2
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 2, 2005 3:35 pm PT
Review:  After playing for around 8 hours, I am impressed with this game. It has nice graphics, a user-friendly 
 interface, and an interesting secondary profession system. Most missions so far seem to be easy 
 to solo, and guild creation is easy. 
  
  I'm not particularly impressed with the "click to attack" system, as it doesn't take much skill. 
 The skill seems to be in selecting which abilities you put on your spell bar, which is limited 
 to 8 abilities. Having the right 8 abilities can spell the difference between victory and defeat.
 
  
  The graphics are nice, but not spectacular. They are photorealistic a la EQ2, but seem to be a 
 little too dead. Character models are good, but seem to be a little too "anime" for my tastes, 
 especially with professions such as necromancer or elementalist. The high-resolution graphics don't 
 affect your gameplay, however, due to instancing. Because everything outside of the towns is instanced, 
 you don't get the massive processor lag you may see with MMO's. 
  
  The downside seems to be that because of instancing, player interaction is minimal, outside of 
 PvP. It's a great game to spend an hour or two on, but it is not the immersive experience of a 
 game such as City of Heroes or World of Warcraft. If you are into PvP, this is a don't miss game. 
 If you aren't into PvP, you are probably better off spending your money on a true MMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evarmy98x
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 1, 2005 8:46 am PT
Review:  It's difficult to write a review for a game that honestly has nothing but positive qualities. Guild 
 Wars starts you off on the path of an adventurer in the kingdom of Ascalon, and through a vast 
 catalog of quests draws you into the story of the kindgom's fall and struggle for redemption. This 
 game incorporates what is easily the best possible system for integrating players in an online 
 environment. When you are in town or at an 'outpost' you will be able to see other players as they 
 visit merchants and speak to quest-giving NPCs. While in town you also have the option to form 
 parties or even join large guilds of players. However, when you step out of town and into the wide 
 world the game provides you with your very own copy of the map. The only other players you see 
 or interact with outside of town are those in your party. This makes every quest, every hunt, every 
 new discovery fresh and fun. There is no competing over scarce resources -- such as monsters, items, 
 or quests. Besides this marvelous system the game is also remarkably deep. Six different classes 
 offer enough on their own, but they can also be multi-classed into 30 combinations of each other. 
 Guild Wars is quite nice to look at, but not revolutionary in its graphics or sound/music. However, 
 that there is no monthy fee to play the game should sell many MMORPG fans immediately. You simply 
 can't afford to pass up this experience. Get Guild Wars now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TurtleMilk
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 30, 2005 11:03 pm PT
Review:  By far, Guild Wars is one of the most unique and greatest RPGs ever created. It provides a very 
 unique style of gameplay which is based on skill, and not the number next to your name or the gear 
 you wear.
  
  The first thing you might notice while starting up Guild Wars, is that there are no patches you 
 are forced to download. This is because a unique system called Streamline Technology has been implemented 
 into Guild Wars. It literally downloads patches and extra features in the background as you play. 
 Truly, the annoyance of having to wait for hour long downloads, or even a few seconds for a simple 
 bug fix, has been removed.
  
  The game is constantly being updated daily, so you will soon begin to realize that the game world 
 literally changes as you play through it.
  
  There are a total of 6 character classes or professions if you will. The Warrior, Necromancer, 
 Ranger, Monk, Mesmer, and Elementalist. In my 130 hours of gameplay, I noticed that these character 
 classes are practically perfectly balanced. There really is no such thing as an overpowered class, 
 because in reality, there are no overpowered classes.
  
  Players are given the ability to dual-class, which is a way to have another profession as your 
 secondary profession. This gives you a wider range of strategies and tactics, and it allows to 
 you play really, however you want.
  
  From a raging Warrior who uses Water Magic to a Water Magic user who summons undead minions, you 
 are given a huge amount of freedom as to how you create your character.
  
  The character customization on the other hand is unfortunately mediocre. You can change the size, 
 hair color, skin color, face, and hair style of your character. There are enough options to keep 
 you content, but you might run into someone who looks extremely similar to your character. Thankfully, 
 the various armor pieces help quite a bit to fix this problem, and in the end players are able 
 to learn up to 150 skills to boot.
  
  To help against the war against similar looking character models, the developers of Guild Wars 
 have allowed players to use Dyes. By mixing Dyes or by using them directly, players can change 
 the colors of their various armor pieces. They are also a very good way to make money which in 
 this game is Gold, because they are quite valuable.
  
  When you are done creating your character, you are greeted by a very well done in game introduction, 
 which tells you the basis of what exactly is going on. It is very important to listen to everything 
 the NPCs have to tell you, and to pay attention carefully overall. Without doing this, you may 
 find yourself lost and confused which, unfortunately, happens very often to beginners.
  
  The very first thing I bet you will say into your head the second you start playing is, "Wow." 
 The graphics, honestly, are simply amazing. 
  
  I have played games such as Half-Life 2, Farcry, Doom 3, and the Chronicles of Riddick. Although 
 this game does not have next generation textures, in my opinion the scenery simply cannot be beat. 
 Out of all games I have played, this is by far the first one where I find myself staring at the 
 scenery for several minutes upon a time. Gamespy was right, you really do just want to "reach out 
 and touch" the gameworld.
  
  Below this line and above the next line is an explanation of what Zones are:
  
  ----------
 
  
  Unfortunately, the entire aspect implemented into Guild Wars called Zones, can be a difficult thing 
 to understand. However, once you have it locked into your brain, you will soon find it to be one 
 of the greatest and unique things that could ever happen to a 3D MMORPG (or CCORPG if you prefer) .
 
  
  Before we begin, pretend you are looking at the world map of Guild Wars.
  
  The map is basically divided up into several sections. Let's label each of these sections a Zone 
 shall we? No matter where you are in the game world, you will always be in a Zone. If you decide 
 to travel into the Mountain Range, then you will be inside a zone implemented there. If you are 
 off adventuring in the islands, you will be inside one of the zones implemented there as well. 
 Even places such as cities, outposts, and small towns are sections off into these areas called 
 zones, because everything is.
  
  Basically, the developers of Guild Wars took an area, and made several copies of it. So, when you 
 are in a city, town, or outpost, you will be inside one of the copies that were created. One thing 
 you will notice when you first begin to play the game, is that while in a city, town, or outpost, 
 you will find yourself in a certain district. In reality, this is just a fancy name that means 
 copy.
  
  So, say there are 10 copies of a city, and you want to go play with a friend. Say your friend is 
 in district (copy) number one, and you are in district (copy) number seven. In order to meet up 
 with your friend, you would have to drop down the menu, select which district (copy) you would 
 like to enter, and with a click of a button, you are there within two seconds. In other words, 
 there are several copies of each city, town, and outpost that are implemented into Guild Wars.
 
  
  When you decide to leave the city and go explore the game world, you are given your own private 
 copy of the area. While there, you will notice that the game has basically switched from an Online 
 RPG straight to a Single Player RPG. Giving players their own private copy of the game world when 
 they decide to go adventuring prevents and causes the following things:
  
  Waiting in lines for quests is now history. You will not see other players trying to accomplish 
 a certain mission or quest at the same time you are, only to realize that you have to wait for 
 the enemy or item to respawn. Because of this, it allows the developers to implement very interesting 
 and exiting quests such as using catapults to rain death upon the enemy, or by blowing up stone 
 gates with barrels of gunpowder. 
  
  You are able to interact much more with the environment, and you are given much more freedom as 
 to what you can actually do. Because of Zones, there are several different and interesting ways 
 to complete quests.
  
  Kill stealing is now officially a thing of the past. No longer will you be so close to defeating 
 an enemy, only to realize that someone else has stolen all that valuable experience. Gameplay elements 
 such as these are very annoying, and with Guild Wars, they are now history.
  
  Much like kill stealing, you will no longer have to worry about other players taking items from 
 enemies that you defeated. No longer will you open up a chest, see an item, and watch it be carried 
 away by another player.
  
  You will not defeat enemies or a boss, only to see them respawn right next to you. Enemies in the 
 game do not respawn, so you do not have to worry about killing a boss, and then have him suddenly 
 appear behind you and backstab you.
  
  Because you are given your own private area, players are given the ability to summon powerful magic 
 in order to build bridges, burn down forests, and tear the land asunder at their very own will. 
 Other Online RPGs or MMORPGs do not offer nearly as much freedom gameplay-wise when it comes to 
 Guild Wars.
  
  Interaction with other players is by far higher then some people might realize. In most MMORPGS 
 or Online RPGs, you might solo by yourself much more then you do with a group. In Guild Wars, player 
 interaction is very common, and you will find yourself in a group far more then you will playing 
 by yourself. Only, if you choose to however.
  
  Of course, Guild Wars would not be much of an online RPG if you could not have other players travel 
 around and go adventuring with you. Grabbing a friend and going out in the world to play with him 
 or her is very simple and easy. With the click of a button, you can invite a player or players 
 to form a party. Any person or persons in a party will easily be able to travel together, or go 
 and help each other combat evil.
  
  Experience points are shared among all party members, as is gold and items. Whenever someone discovers 
 an item, that item randomly selects a player. Once that player is selected, that item becomes reserved 
 for that person. This means, that no other person besides the one selected by the item will be 
 able to pick it up. This prevents very annoying gameplay elements such as scrambling to pick up 
 items that drop in the middle of a huge battle.
  
  Zones are massive and in Guild Wars, you can see as far as the eye can. The draw-distance is certainly 
 impressive.
  
  Surely, the unique feature implemented into Guild Wars called Zones will be a very positive thing 
 to most (if not all) players for years to come.
  
  ----------
  
  Another nice thing about Guild Wars, is how you can literally use the terrain to your advantage. 
 
  
  You may find yourself luring enemies into tar pits, receiving a damage bonus while on high ground, 
 or knocking enemies down into a river of burning flame.
  
  Unfortunately, you cannot jump nor swim in Guild Wars. There are invisible walls preventing players 
 from jumping off of cliffs and going out into the middle of the ocean. Otherwise, you can pretty 
 much travel wherever you want to. There are huge open valleys, dark dungeons, paradise islands, 
 wastelands, lush forests, raging volcanic islands, and much, much more to explore at your will.
 
  
  There is a very unique and well done PvP system implemented into Guild Wars. There are several 
 different gameplay options to choose from, and players are allowed to participate in tournaments 
 for the Hall of Heroes, which is an exaggeration of a Master Tournament.
  
  Guild Wars is very focused around the creation of a Guild as well. You are able to design your 
 very own Guild Cape from scratch, and even purchase your Guild's very own Island. You may wage 
 war in Siege the Castle type battles on your Island as well.
  
  The sounds are great, and it really helps to make you feel that I am actually in the game world. 
 
  
  The sounds of birds chirping and leaves are noticeable and effective. The soundtrack consisting 
 of 28 songs are very powerful and moving, and the sound overall is very well done. It's nothing 
 amazing or breath-taking, but the fact still remains that when it comes to the sounds implemented 
 into the game, there really is nothing to complain about.
  
  Lastly, combat. The combat in Guild Wars is by far the best I have ever seen. The animations are 
 great, realistic, and the combat overall is very fast paced. You are always keeping track of what 
 you are doing, so unlike most RPGs, you will not simply click on the enemy and wait for it to die.
 
  
  You will find yourself fighting dozens of enemies at a time, yet at the same time you might go 
 one on one with other creatures. Honestly, the combat in Guild Wars reminds me of an action game.
 
  
  The difficulty implemented is very good. It can be easy, but usually it is pretty challenging. 
 At times, the game can suddenly become extremely difficult, so carefully deployed tactics are always 
 a necessity.
  
  Unfortunately, the path-finding of the A. I. within the game can be pretty bad at times. NPCs do 
 not get stuck somewhere and cannot get out, but they can be halted for a few seconds by an obstacle. 
 it is very solid overall, but there is no doubt in my mind that it could use a little bit of work.
 
  
  Overall however, the A. I. in Guild Wars is very good. Enemy spellcasters and healers will stay 
 in the back, they will try to get on high ground, go on patrol, and even try to ambush you at times. 
 It is very well done surprisingly, and it is especially well done seeing as how Guild Wars is an 
 Online RPG.
  
  No game is perfect, and despite the fact that Guild Wars does have a few flaws, they really tend 
 to be very minor. For what it offers, Guild Wars offers it just about flawlessly. Truly, in my 
 humble opinion, Guild Wars is by far one of the best (if not the greatest) RPG ever created.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alestian
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 30, 2005 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Many of the players who will log onto the Guild Wars servers are World of Warcraft players who 
 are tired of paying for monthly fees to play WoW online and who want to generally play the same 
 game for free. Luckily, they have Guild Wars. But, Guild Wars isn't exactly WoW but it's close!
 
  
  The game is very similar to WoW in that you create a new character, enter into a starter city, 
 meet up with a person, get a quest, complete the quest, get experience, and start leveling up. 
 This is pretty much the entire premise behind WoW. But, there are differences.
  
  Gameplay Controls
  Unlike WoW where you can pretty much move anywhere you want, swim any body 
 of water, climb mountains, jump terrain, etc., Guild Wars is extremely limited. You cannot jump 
 in this game, there is no swimming, and climbing is not only frustrating but nearly impossible. 
 Given these limitations, you may find your character stuck and unable to move at times. For example, 
 there is a little girl named Gwen who will follow you on your adventures. It's important for Gwen 
 to follow you as she gives you about 20 percent health. However, because she follows you, when 
 you reach a cliff, body of water, or some foliage that has a boundary box around it (a boundary 
 box is a line of code that a developer implements in the game so that the character cannot proceed. 
 this keeps characters from falling off of cliffs, swimming in water, etc.) , you could find yourself 
 stuck and unable to move because your character is trapped. But, luckily, the solution is simple. 
 All you have to do is just wait for Gwen to step back so you can make your escape from the development 
 trap. 
  
  In addition to missing basic movements, you can run and walk with no problem. However, if you want 
 to strafe while you run then you might have some major difficulties there. Other than that, the 
 game does a great job and is rather close to WoW.
  
  PvP or PvE
  This game is no doubt built for PvP (Player versus Player) players. If you want a strong story 
 and great quests then you might want to look elsewhere. This game is built for PvP players. 
  
  Leveling
  You can go up to 20 levels in this game, which is severely lacking when compared 
 to the 60 levels that you can go up to in WoW. Also, leveling is fast in this game. I played for 
 about four hours and already reached level 10 with no problem. 
  
  Auction Houses
  There are no Auction Houses in this game unlike in WoW so you aren't able to sell your items in 
 the game unless it is to a vendor.
  
  Pets and Mounts
  Unlike in WoW where you can ride a beautiful white tiger at 60 percent top speed across the open 
 terrain, this game has NO mounts. But, however, it does have pets. If you are a Ranger then you 
 can tame a pet. 
  
  Skills
  One thing that I really like about GW is that you can be a Mesmer and a Ranger if you want. Basically, 
 you can have the skills and powers of two types of characters where in WoW you can only have one. 
 So, you want the ability to resurrect your friends from the dead like a Healer but still have a 
 pet like a Ranger then no problem.
  
  Graphics Detail
  You will be hooked in GW when you log on. The graphics alone are fantastic. They are rich in color 
 and exceptionally well designed.
  
  Sound
  Unlike WoW, there are no great soundtracks in GW. In fact, the music is rather lacking in that 
 department.
  
  LAG LAG LAG
  Everyone who played WoW where the lag is terrible in Ironforge and Stormwind wants to know what 
 the lag is like in GW. Well, I have a 1 GIG of RAM and a 2 GIG Hertz processor and it works fine. 
 I do have the occasional problem where the character just stops and doesn't move. Then I have to 
 log out and back on. But overall, the game lag has been low or nonexistent for me. I'm not sure 
 what others have experienced.
  
  Characters
  Unlike in WoW where you can have as many characters as you want and as different races and types, 
 GW is limited. You can only have four characters in GW and they are all human. No undead, gnomes, 
 or dwarves in GW. Just tons of humans. The downside is that every character pretty much looks like 
 a twin of another. The game is lacking in individuality. I can't tell you how many times I have 
 walked into a city and have seen at least two or three other characters that looked "exactly" like 
 me. It's literally a boring world where everyone is identical.
  
  Gameplay
  Well, I'm already level 10 out of 20 levels so I'm really hoping that it gets better and more interesting. 
 But overall, it's been fun getting to level 10. I just hope that the game isn't over when i reach 
 level 20.
  
  Well, that's it. As you can see, the game isn't World of Warcraft, despite having some Blizzard 
 staff on the development team, but it's close. I would call it WoW's step child.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neoledd
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 30, 2005 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Im in college, and this allows me to have countless hours of nothing to do. I started playing world 
 of warcraft..... and now that ive played Guild wars, I wished I would have never subscribed to WoW 
 (sorry fan boys) . From a gamer that has alot of experience and playtime in many different genres... this 
 game is the best mmo ive played. To start, did anyone hate the fact that high level characters 
 would sit around a town just to brag, and basically they lagged the server on some MMo's? Well 
 thats over, you can block channels a hell of alot easier than world of warcraft, plus you cant 
 see anyone's level, and so the "children" that sit and tell you how powerful they are and spam 
 is a thing of the past.
  On gameplay, its not the average "you hit me, then ill hit you" and so on. If you do an attack, 
 they do it, no problem. Its great how they put it together. The only downfall is that you can only 
 use 8 skills at a time, but if you could use more, i think the game would be unfair, so it evens 
 out. As you get more into the game, more people can be added to your party which is a great idea. 
 You start with a max of 4 in a party, then to 6, then 8 later on. The enemys are larger, and the 
 action never stops.
  The graphics are stellar, they beat any mmo out, and the best part is their new streaming technology 
 makes lag a thing of the past (depending on connection, im on cable) . The sound is also very good, 
 depending what kind of enemy you fight, their is a different sound to melee attacks (example: if 
 you hit a stone elemental) it sounds like you are hitting stone, and so on. As far as my Opinion 
 on the overall game, I started believing that there was now ay in hell that it could beat WoW, 
 but I canceled my subscription 3 hours after after i got it. Oh and one last thing, if i get and 
 messages from WoW players saying it sucks out of ignorance........ I design video games!!!! I know 
 what im talking about. So, if you like MMO's and are looking for a more action oriented game.. please 
 pick it up.... My review only covers the basics on how good it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonx5584
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 30, 2005 8:38 am PT
Review:  I was never a real big MMO fan because they just seemed uninteresting. However, last year I decided 
 to look into World of Warcraft for my first MMO because I love the Warcraft series and loved it. 
 After a few months of playing WoW, I just got sick of all the extremely long travel times, constant 
 grinding, getting ganked in the back by a stupid rogue when you're almost dead from a mob of wolves 
 or something... Ugh... So I stopped playing but liked the MMO experience and decided I needed to 
 find something else. EQ series doesn't interest me and neither did the other ones and then I heard 
 about Guild Wars and started looking into it a month or so before it hit the shelves. After research, 
 it seemed like the MMO I was waiting for: no monthly fees, no ganking and camping your corpse, 
 no long travel times, etc. I never got the chance to play in any of the BETA's so I took the chance 
 and pre-ordered the game two days before it came out.
  
  Installation was quick and went well and after launching it, I was able to create a character. 
 You can choose between warrior, mesmer, ranger, elementalist, monk, and necromancer. Everything 
 you want to know about each class can be shown at the media page. What's so cool about the character 
 you choose is that you can have a secondary class as well. So if you choose ranger for your primary, 
 you can either stay a ranger or pick ANY of the other classes to go along with your ranger, so 
 there's a ton of different characters you can choose from. When creating your character, you can 
 change the gender, hair style, color of skin, face and height. You must also choose a first and 
 last name for your character. 
  
  When first starting, everything goes at a slow enough pace and things are explained to you with 
 a pop-up tutorial box. You can hop in and do quests right away or even PvP if you wish. To PvP, 
 you have to enter a battle arena in the city your in (not every city has one, however) and you 
 warp to this battlefield where two opposing teams duke it out until they win. You even get XP for 
 killing other enemies. If you lose, you go back to the battle arena where you can either go along 
 with your business or wait to enter the next battle, but if you win, you stay in the battle and 
 fight another group of people. 
  
  When questing, you can either do them completely solo (you'll probably end up dying though because 
 most quests are pretty long, but never boring) or you can find a group of people and head out to 
 quest that way. You could even grab computer controlled characters to help you if you don't want 
 to wait to find people or you can have both people and computer controlled characters. What's cool 
 is that the computer characters are actually helpful and don't do stupid thing very often. They'll 
 always stay with you and never fall behind, heal you and your other mates when needed (if they 
 can heal) , use spells, ressurect, etc. You can literally do many, many quests with a full group 
 of computer controlled characters because many times a whole bunch of people won't just come quest 
 with you for what you want to do. 
  
  Each city is where you meet and talk to other people and get your items, weapons, armor, etc. To 
 leave a town, you "warp" out (instance) and go into the battle field. If you leave a town alone, 
 you'll be alone. Literally. If you chat, no one can hear you unless you use guild chat or friend 
 chat, but general chat, no one will hear you and you won't hear them. If you're in a party, you'll 
 cooperate with each other just like in town. Leaving a town is pure questing and you don't have 
 to worry about being ganked or any other annoying things like that because you won't be able to 
 see other parties. Only yours.
  
  There's plenty of quests to do in the game but so far, most of the rewards are worthless, besides 
 the XP or sometimes a few new spells. 
  
  The graphics are stunning. I don't know why people would say they aren't that great because they're 
 amazing, especially the environments. There's a ton of exotic and bright colors and each environment 
 is different and have their own unique monsters. Sound is also great. Each sound sounds like it 
 goes along with whatever you're doing, like swords slashing and fire falling from the sky or anything 
 like that. 
  
  Each class is very balanced and each class has a ton of spells you can choose from. You earn spells 
 by either buying them or earning them by completely quests. If you have a primary and secondary 
 character, you can use both spells for both classes which creates nearly endless possiblities on 
 how you want to do things. 
  
  The UI only has 8 buttons. You can't change it, so you have to pick which spells you wish to use 
 because you can't change your spells outside of a town. This gives the game a tremendous amount 
 of strategy instead of using any random spell in your list. A great addition with this game, is 
 the quest weapon switch. All you do is set a weapon to a slot and push the corresponding key. This 
 is very easy and useful instead of opening up your backpack and individually changing weapons in 
 the middle of a fight. For example, if you're a warrior/ranger, you can pick off an enemy from 
 the distance with your bow and when they come in close, you can pull out your sword/mace/axe with 
 a push of a button.
  
  The only thing I'm not impressed with this game is how hard it can be to find a group. It seems 
 most people in town are afk or are just ignoring you, but other times, it can be quite easy to 
 find a quest. I guess you have to be in the right place in the right time. There's much more to 
 talk about, I just don't feel like giving every detail. :)
  
  Overall, this game is extremely addicting. If you like a lot of action and MMO's without all the 
 annoying things in every other MMO, this is definitely the game to check out. Even if you don't 
 like MMO's, check it out because it's incredible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: irinhachinsu
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 29, 2005 7:21 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is simply phenomenal. From the moment you enter the game world, you know this is going 
 to be something special. The game world is simply gorgeous; everywhere you look there is something 
 beautiful. The music and sound effects match this impact, as Guild Wars' has some fantastic music 
 and sfx. Gameplay is fast and fun, playing in a similar manner to Diablo 2. Replay value is, as 
 you would expect from a MMOG, enormous, and there is huge incentive to replay this game. 
  
  I know its a short review, but take it from me, you NEED this game. Stop reading this and go 
 out and get it. There is no way that anyone could not like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BluesBro
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2005 5:43 pm PT
Review:  I only have about 6 hours of game play under my belt using a warrior/necormancer. Why talk about 
 all the good things that have already been said by other reviewers. I'm just going to tell you 
 some of the problems that I run into. I wish I could buy a horse. I cant seem to find any merchants 
 that actually sell other armor, shields, and weapons. Seems like everything you get you have to 
 find while adventuring. I have a really good computer and at times it does seem to bog down but 
 when I minimize and come back it works fine. I sure would like to get my hands on a couple backpacks. 
 Not enough room for all the loot. I feel like I'm always running or teleporting back to camp selling 
 crap to merchant. I've been playing solo the whole time so I dont know how well the cooperative 
 play works. After saying a couple of negatives, this is exactly the kind of game I've been looking 
 for. I can see myself playing this game for several months before getting tired of it. I cant imagine 
 only playing all the quests one time though. Plus there are several other characters I'd like to 
 try out. Hope to see you in the game..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spitfire1856
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2005 7:11 am PT
Review:  "Wow" were the first words i thought when i started up guild wars for the first time. The character 
 graphics looked great and it was easy to make my character. the creation process is like a lot 
 of other MMORPGS (massively multiplayer online role playing game) for instance W. O. W. i soon got 
 into the world with almost no loading time and only a second of freezing. The landscaping looked 
 very good and crisp and looked very welcoming. i looked around for something to do and saw a guy 
 with a exclamation mark above his head. that obviously meant a quest. I got started and got to work. 
 One part that this game lacks is a proper tutorial. they plunk you right in and expect you to fend 
 for yourself. to veteran players of games like this it is not required but for people who are playing 
 a MMORPG for the first time, there could be problems. When you walk out of the town gates for the 
 first time you notice something strange. No one is around. Why? well when adventuring in Guild 
 Wars whenever you leave a town you get your own area where no one but you (and your party) will 
 be. that means no spawn-camping, stealing, etc, any of that stuff. it is a very nice touch and 
 makes playing Guild wars much more enjoyable. When questing in Guild Wars things are the same as 
 most other games. you get a arrow on your screen showing you where to go. Sometimes things can 
 be a bit confusing if you don't know your way around and they tell you to search for this guy in 
 some dungeon or cave and you have no idea where it is. this also ties in to not being able to jump 
 or run up or down steep hills. most of the paths are set and you can't really go exploring because 
 you have to stay on the path. this also makes it exceptionally harder to find someone on the map 
 because it only tells you the direct route to the checkpoint, not the path. in most other multiplayer 
 role playing games you can roam freely and go directly to a place by running through the lake and 
 into a forest. instead in Guild wars you have to take some long round about path. Luckily this 
 doesn't really hinder the game to much because it won't really take that long to figure out where 
 to go. In guild wars it's not about hundreds of hours grinding XP from monsters but about having 
 fun and doing quests and playing in PVP. for some people grinding may be a way of life but in Guild 
 Wars it is almost erased entirely. I found this sort of strange at first but as i have got used 
 to it I don't mind anymore not going out to kill hordes of monsters.
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  There are many things to do in guild wars and many possibilities. there aren't too many bugs. I 
 found there are a few places for improvements but over all the game is awesome. and lots of fun
 
  
  Graphics 9/10 
  edges are crisp, lighting is good, and there are many colours used. when you are adventuring it 
 looks a lot like a fantasy setting and everything graphically comes together very well.
  
  Sound 9/10 
  there is some repetition in the music but it all sounds good and delivers a fantasy 
 kind of melody with bird twitters and all the combat noises. There is nothing really there to criticize 
 in ways of sound.
  
  Value 9/10
  
  Reviewer's Tilt 9/10
  
  Overall this game is a great game for any RPG lovers or MMORPG lovers. it delivers a satisfying 
 experience and with the no monthly fees this game is pretty much a must have.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skaven
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2005 3:06 am PT
Review:  Okay, so I am not a normal MMORPG guy... there are things about them that really irritate me. But 
 the beauty of this game is that most (if not all) of those things have been addressed:
  
  Monthly Fee: GW is FREE after the initial purchase. No monthly fees... Zip Zilch.
  
  Item Camping/Questing: 
 This is where GW really shines in my opinion. Typically (EQ/FFXI) the entire world of a MMORPG 
 is free-for-all. Not here. Every adventure group gets an 'instance' of the world to adventure in. 
 What does that mean to us gamers? That we can adventure the entire game without having to deal 
 with item campers, player killers, quest hogs, or just general all-around jerks. The public areas 
 (the citys) are where the masses gather to talk/trade/group together/etc. I was on lastnight with 
 a california friend, and boy howdee; was it a blast! We weren't harrassed, killed, or robbed the 
 entire time. It's impossible for that to happen.
  
  Death: It seems that all games really punish you from dying. You lose, exp/gold/pride. Not so here. 
 The game is challenging enough that you will die if not strategic enough, but if you do. No worries. 
 You can resurrect your familiar (no cost) , and don't loose your items or any progress. I love it 
 since it really opens up my approach. I can 'risk' attacking that Lvl 5 Water Drake.. and if I 
 win, great... if I die... no worries.
  
  Overload: In EQ I recall being frustrated now and again because the game was soooo bogged down 
 when people gathered. That doesn't happen here. The world is persistant (as per usual) but there 
 are parallel instances of the public areas that balance attendance so you always have people to 
 play with, but not too many to drag the game to it's knees. You can PM anyone on any instance anywhere 
 in the map at any time... so if your adventure buddy is placed on a different instance then you 
 can switch instances at will to meet them.
  
  Walking: Traveling from place to place in other MMORPGS was tedious and lame. GW addresses this 
 issue by creating 'portals' in all the major towns. You can warp between them at will, for free. 
 It saves you backtracking for 45 minutes just to get to the town to get your next quest.
  
  So ya, I am quite excited to play this again. I think I played for like 9 hours last night. And 
 I haven't done that with a game since I was like 13. :)
  
  Other noteable mentions:
  
  Sound: The sound effects are as good as can be expected. Great slashes, bangs, clangs, and general 
 battle sounds. The creatures all have unique sounds and they are original enough that you can hear 
 them and recognize whats coming soley based on sound.
  
  Music: Its' basic, and adventure like. I feel it's a little repetitive, but since it is so subtle 
 that you really don't notice it's repetitive untill you listen for it. But I am glad to report 
 to any mp3 fiends out there, the game mixes well with any energetic mp3 playlist. That's what I 
 adventure to. ;)
  
  Graphics: Great for a game that loads and updates objects and levels on the fly. Just see for yourself:
 
  
  http://finsternis. com/skaven/gw001. jpg
  
  My character. Turin Varda. Lvl 7 Ranger/Monk. He's a badass. Althogh I can't afford the matching 
 fur vest yet. So he looks a little 'off'. 
  
  http://finsternis. com/skaven/gw003. jpg
  
  World Map. See where the dot in the top right hand corner is? I have explored about a 1/4" around 
 that dot. The game is quite large for all your adventuring needs.
  
  http://finsternis. com/skaven/gw005. jpg
  
  Me battling. Skills at the bottom for quick clicking; 
 party members lower right, map upper right. Functional, and still good-looking interface.
  
  http://finsternis. com/skaven/gw006. jpg
  
  Scenic view of the wasteland. Yes, thats my pet. 
 Yes, his name is Kitty Kitty.
  
  Graphics Note: I have reasonably good hardware, an ATi Radeon 9800 (not top-o-the-line or anything) 
 and the game plays great. Everything on max, 1024x768, and 4x AA. No hitches, save for the occasional 
 load blip. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmoney983
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 27, 2005 7:51 pm PT
Review:  NCsoft (former programmers from blizzard) have put together a game that is truly familiar territory 
 and ends up turning it on it's head. Guild Wars achieves a feat that most if not all mmorpg want 
 to aspire to: accessibility!
  No more months of building up a superior character and being $15 bucks lighter in your wallet every 
 month. Guild Wars is a game filled with all the goodness of an mmorpg without all the headache. 
 No more noobies having to suffer the consequence of being.... well a noob by having experienced 
 players trounce them. Guild Wars is more about skill than leveling up indefinitely and with that 
 characteristic alone it redfines the genre. O. K. let's get to the meat. Gameplay: two words Quest 
 Galore!!! co-op or solo quest and missions on the wide. Been on a few hours and barely scratched 
 the surface of this game. I've got a lot more to go I can tell you. Control: Nothing to out of 
 the ordinary and easy to assimilate. Graphics: good nothing extraordinary, but then again you don't 
 play a mmorpg for great graphics, it's all about gameplay. I know this has been one of those reviews 
 that just grazes over certain aspects of the game, but then again this was just the beta. Cannot 
 wait to pickup my copy. My final words are these: WOW, EQII lookout Guild Wars is just might lessen 
 the number of active players on your servers and have you crying poor mouth in a few months when 
 subscriptions are cancelled. Guild Wars truly is what it claims to be... a revolution!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arfindel
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 27, 2005 10:30 am PT
Review:  I have not actually bought a copy of this game (but i am gonna no matter what!) . I did play all 
 the BWEs and they were awsome! Can't be bothered explaining all the gd points about the game (too 
 many... reviewers here have only scraped the surface regarding the pros for this game) .
  
  
  Guild Wars leaves poor, poor EQII and WOW in the dust (wind howling) . 
  
  NO MONTHLY FEE 
 CORPG (cooperative online role playing game) better then monthly fee MMORPG games?????? THAT IS 
 RIGHT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  LONG LIVE THE LEGEND... GUILD WARS!!!!!! BUM BUM BUM DIDUM DIDUM DIDUM BUM BUMDIDUM BUM BUM BUMDIDUM 
 BUM  minutes  
 crowds cheer across the 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bolognat13
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 27, 2005 2:51 am PT
Review:  This game has everything you want in a MMORPG and nothing you don't! The biggest and best thing 
 is the fact that there is no monthly fee. No charge what-so-ever after you purchase the game. That's 
 the way it was back in the day for those of you who remember. This isn't truely a MMORPG, it's 
 a CORPG (Competitive online role-playing game. That's what the developers said, and they were right. 
 Your goal is not to get the highest lvl character with the best equipment. Don't be turned off 
 by the max lvl cap of 20. That is when the fun BEGINS. You play this game much in the same way 
 you would play many other games. Like Zelda you explore different areas, complete random sidequests, 
 develop the storyline. All of this without leveling up, but still looking for good equipment. Like 
 most First Person Shooters (and any game) your goal is to be better than everyone else. You have 
 to use skill to be a good player. You aren't going to be better than others because you've spent 
 a gazillion hours playing the game. The experience will help, yes, but not in terms of your in-game 
 character. You'll have a good character, if you as a player play them well. Graphics are amazing. 
 Unlike anything you've seen to date. I simply couldn't give it anything lower than a 10 in good 
 conscience. Give it a try, or find someone who has and let them show you. You will not regret it. 
 Forget WoW, FFXI, EQ, this is Guild Wars baby! It's so addicting it should be called Crack Wars. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatback31
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 27, 2005 2:00 am PT
Review:  i played the game only once in during the world wide event and i thought it was pretty good. i 
 like mmorpg games and i think im going to like this game alot, i already have it pre ordered and 
 im gettin it tomorrow (4-27-05) i think this is going to be a very good game and its going to be 
 one of the best games of all time. so my advice for everybody no matter what color, race, sex, no 
 matter what kind of games ur into, u should go out and get this game because it would be worth 
 it. and even if u dont really like mmorpg games then u should get it just to kill some time that 
 u have because the game is so long and full of things to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sino-soviet
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 19, 2006 12:44 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - The gameplay I feel is good, but a bit uninspired. Clicking on a target to attack basically 
 ensures your character hitting the guy. You don't need to continuously click or really feel involved 
 in the action. I have to say that I would much rather prefer it if Anet revamped the combat system 
 so that each time you click, it hits once. This is very close to a strategic hack and slash, so 
 why not go all the way?
  
  Graphics - Very nice, colorful, and lush for an online rpg. Without a doubt superior to WoW.
 
  
  Sound - Check out the title screen music, and the song Temple of Tolerance on the OST. Excellent. 
 Some of the weapon effects and monster grunts repetitive, some variety would be a nice addition.
 
  
  Value - The campaign will take about 30 hours if you go straight through, and without a doubt you'll 
 want to go through at least twice. If you like content and action, this is a good 100+ hours, and 
 if you like grinding, the possibilities are endless. Multiplayer is super competitive as well, 
 and really shines. Tilt - As much as I enjoyed the game, I have nothing but bad things to say about 
 the community. Full of morons and low lifes, some of them really screw up the game for others by 
 quitting during missions and leaving their party stranded. Not cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gammer152
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 26, 2005 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a must play game for those who hate and thoes who love MMORPG's. I have had more 
 fun playing guild wars in the 12 hours i played during the beta testing week than all the other 
 games i have played put together.
  
  Gameplay:
  The game play gets a 10/10. Trust me once you start playing this game you will not want to stop. 
 Never had i wanted a game this bad before. Oh and one thing i really liked was if you killed an 
 enemy the items the enemy drops is assigned to you. So no more item stealing. Gameplay is just 
 plain good fun!
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics get a 10/10. This game will amaze you. After first entering the game world i was just 
 sitting at my computer staring at the graphics for about 10 minutes before i even actulay did something. 
 The detail in the world is incredable.
  
  Sound:
  The sounds get a 10/10. The sounds in guild wars are very well done. Everything in the game has 
 its own unique sound that matches perfectly. Also very good music, it really fits the game good. 
 
  
  Value:
  The value gets a 10/10. This game is well worth the $$. There are NO monthly fees. One thing i 
 remember from my PC Gamer magazine that pretty much sums the value part up is "They Want You to 
 Pay We Want You to Play." Yep you buy it, you play as much as you want for no cost.
  
  Overall:
  Overall this game deserves a perfect 10/10. Its everything you ever wanted in an MMORPG 
 and more. This is a must buy for everyone calling themselves video gamers.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wajir0
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 26, 2005 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Leaves WoW and EQ2 on the DusT, its a pretty good game after all. wow has better graphics. and 
 eq2 just not right on there between GD and WOW. So far we have Guild Wars coming out on top of 
 all this mmorpgs so far ...... even thought they are all the ex-workers from blizzard WarcRaft... 
 they did awsome to bring a new type of mmorpg games give them propz. another thing.. its No monthly 
 fees..
  which they should of put monthly fee to make it even better at least $10.00 a month
  
  
  
 No monthly fees,
  -All the servers are linked up, everyone has a likely chance of meeting each other. So you never 
 have to worry about getting your friends to play on the same server, all you have to do is meet 
 them in game in the different districts. (You can also play with players from Europe or Korea, 
 in which case you'll see those players in the 'international district' or in tourneys.)
  -Unique mission system lets you play with your friends, and only your friends. No more waiting 
 for some monster to spawn only to have it killed by a farmer, no more random high level players 
 coming to gank you for sport. In guild wars mission areas are created for each party, and you have 
 the luxury of playing in a whole world to yourself. (NPC henchman are also available for you to 
 fill your party with if you are feeling extra anti social)
  -Team based Matchmaking type pvp, lets you get in, get a few games of organized fantasy chaos in, 
 and get out. You can be matched up with total strangers for some pick up games of ctf, or just 
 straight death match, or you can put together a team of 8 to try and win the Hall of Heroes for 
 uber fame and bragging rights.
  -Really smooth graphics and nice camera angles. Real time game play relying on quick thinking.
 
  -No over or underpowered job classes! Everything is very well balanced, and you can be free to 
 play whatever you like the most, without the worry of sucking.
  -'No permanent mistakes' in character making. Put all your attribute points in the wrong slot? 
 No problem, just gain some exp and you earn 'attribute refund points' to relocate them 
::::::

::::::
UserName: everythingj
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 26, 2005 12:08 pm PT
Review:  The first two things I found out about Guild Wars before I started playing, was that it had no 
 monthly fee, and that it was a new strategy MMO that was going to put emphasis on player skill, 
 not hours spent logged into a game. For me, that's exactly what I've been looking for in an mmo, 
 and it's not something I've seen in The Matrix Online, WoW, and FFXI. (Yes, I've bought and played 
 all three)
  
  It seems like most MMOs today only have the goal of creating something that takes you millions 
 of hours to get through so they can suck tons of monthly payments out of you before you decide 
 to hang up your sword and shield. Guild Wars has set out to change all that, and by charging nothing 
 monthly, and surprisingly making this game open to people with 56k modems somehow, (I have no idea 
 how they worked that out) Guild Wars seems to be set on making MMOs exciting and fun for you EVERY 
 time you log in to play.
  
  When I started playing Guild wars in beta, I saw some changes that definitely put the emphasis 
 on fun, not time spent. It won't take you a solid year of leveling to reach the top of this game, 
 in fact, you are given the option at the beginning of the game to start at the highest level by 
 creating a 'pvp only' character. Though if you choose to do that, the pvp only char can only travel 
 to arenas for fighting, and will only have the skills you managed to unlock with a traditional 
 rpg character. So you will have to put some hours in to get everything the first time, but once 
 you've unlocked the things you want, technically, you could go ahead and start playing hardcore 
 pvp games. (Of which there are a number of different types) Either way theres lots of different 
 fun things to do, weather you are maxed out in level, or just starting at level 1.
  
  So essentially the gist of the game is this;
  Team up with some buddies, (or solo the world yourself 
 if you want, with maybe some npc henchman) and play through the extensive roleplaying world, unlocking 
 skills, weapons and nice armor. Once you've had your fill of that, (which will take a while) you 
 can join a guild for some intense guild vs guild competition, or travel to one of the many arenas 
 to use your skills in some competitive pvp. 
  
  The pvp types vary depending on which area you choose, but essentially, theres a number of objective 
 games you can do, as well as straight up death matches. Theres CTF, king of the hill, a FFA type 
 fight (5 partys on 1 map, last one standing wins) as well as some others I'm sure I haven't been 
 able to try yet. All the pvp games require some team work and strategy, and there are lots of different 
 party builds and tactics you can use to succeed.
  
  Here's a simple list of what's neat about the game.
  
  -No monthly fees, ever.
  -All the 
 servers are linked up, everyone has a likely chance of meeting each other. So you never have to 
 worry about getting your friends to play on the same server, all you have to do is meet them in 
 game in the different districts. (You can also play with players from Europe or Korea, in which 
 case you'll see those players in the 'international district' or in tourneys.)
  -Unique mission system lets you play with your friends, and only your friends. No more waiting 
 for some monster to spawn only to have it killed by a farmer, no more random high level players 
 coming to gank you for sport. In guild wars mission areas are created for each party, and you have 
 the luxury of playing in a whole world to yourself. (NPC henchman are also available for you to 
 fill your party with if you are feeling extra anti social)
  -Team based Matchmaking type pvp, lets you get in, get a few games of organized fantasy chaos in, 
 and get out. You can be matched up with total strangers for some pick up games of ctf, or just 
 straight death match, or you can put together a team of 8 to try and win the Hall of Heroes for 
 uber fame and bragging rights.
  -Really smooth graphics and nice camera angles. Real time game play relying on quick thinking.
 
  -No over or underpowered job classes! Everything is very well balanced, and you can be free to 
 play whatever you like the most, without the worry of sucking.
  -'No permanent mistakes' in character making. Put all your attribute points in the wrong slot? 
 No problem, just gain some exp and you earn 'attribute refund points' to relocate them.
  
  Cons:
  -If you are one of those people that LIKES ganking other players while they go about their 
 business in the game world, you won't be able to do that here.
  -That's it.
  
  So to surmise, Guild Wars is a game about fun, strategy, and player skill, at no monthly cost. 
 If you are like me and want to have fun but not throw all your gaming hours away into a grinding 
 abyss of an mmo, then Guild Wars might be a game for you.
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
