-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Guild Wars Nightfall
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/guildwarscampaign3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Features a great-looking new continent to explore, filled with countless quests.
 two interesting but complex new character professions add even more depth.
 gameplay still offers an excellent mix of action, role-playing, and strategy.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The core game hasn't changed much, and its shortcomings are still there.
 new hero characters can be complicated to manage.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  9, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.3, 32 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 3,021 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: NCsoft
Developer: ArenaNet
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Oct 26, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Unmistakably similar to the previous two games in the innovative Guild Wars series, Nightfall features 
 an impressive new Egyptian-themed continent to explore. 

  It's scarcely been six months since the release of Guild Wars Factions, the follow-up to ArenaNet's 
 innovative online role-playing game, but here comes Guild Wars Nightfall -- another massive game 
 featuring plenty of solo, cooperative, and competitive questing and combat. Whereas Factions took 
 place in an Asian-inspired setting, Nightfall has an ancient Egyptian look and feel, and unlike 
 Factions, it's more focused on solo and cooperative questing than on a mix of that and high-level 
 player-versus-player battles. The result is unmistakably similar to the other Guild Wars titles 
 despite a few new features, though it can still be a good starting point for those who haven't 
 given the series a chance yet. However, in spite of all the new content that's on offer in Nightfall's 
 large new continent of Elona, the underlying game hasn't changed much and is starting to show signs 
 of aging.  

          An evil force threatens the land of Elona, and you'll need to work your way up through 
 the ranks of its defenders to discover what it is, and destroy it.     

  Guild Wars Nightfall is a stand-alone product just like the other two Guild Wars games, but if 
 you have one or both of the others, they all tie together. Each one features its own continent 
 to explore and unique looks for all the available character professions. Like Factions before it, 
 Nightfall introduces two new character professions to the original six found in the first Guild 
 Wars. These are the dervish, a scythe-wielding holy warrior designed for frontline combat and support 
 who gains special bonuses from enchantments, and the paragon, a spear-throwing paladin whose inspirational 
 shouts improve the abilities of nearby comrades. Those who own Guild Wars Factions won't initially 
 be able to mix and match Nightfall's exclusive character professions with Factions' assassin and 
 ritualist; however, one of the unique features of Guild Wars is still how you can combine the abilities 
 of your main profession with those of others for what seems like an almost limitless number of 
 choices. Some professions are clearly complementary, such as how the paragon shares the warrior's 
 adrenaline system for launching certain special attacks. But between all the different combinations 
 of professions and the availability of well over a hundred unique skills for each one, Guild Wars 
 offers a tremendous degree of choice and customization.  

  The combat in Nightfall is fundamentally similar to what Guild Wars has offered all along -- a fast-paced, 
 skill-based, action-packed experience that tries to keep the gameplay simple but strategic by limiting 
 you to just eight different skills at a time. It's a great formula for a long while, and Nightfall 
 introduces many impressive-looking, powerful new enemies to fight, and it also seems to have updated 
 their artificial intelligence to make them even more ruthless -- they'll happily go after your party's 
 soft targets, like your monks and elementalists, not just attack the frontline. You have to learn 
 a number of hotkeys to be an effective participant in battle, but the game's colorful manual and 
 some in-game training will teach you the ropes. Ultimately, Guild Wars makes it relatively easy 
 for your team to coordinate and bring down one target at a time, then quickly move onto the next 
 threat, rather than spreading your attacks and defenses too thin.  

  The game is also deeply challenging because it's designed so that no one type of character or strategy 
 is invincible. Taking cues from collectible card games like Magic: The Gathering, Guild Wars' skill 
 system has grown rather esoteric over time, with many professions' skills being useful only in 
 highly specific situations or combinations. Nightfall's new character classes are similarly complicated, 
 offering up a vast number of unique skills that are loaded with qualifiers and contingencies, suggesting 
 that Guild Wars has long since moved on from being straightforward. Sometimes the game can feel 
 strangely limiting, as you can either feel stuck with an overly simple character build loaded with 
 skills that cause direct damage, or you're stuck with a whole mess of countermoves useful only 
 in particular circumstances. Invariably, some of the game's many tough missions will cause you 
 to go back to the drawing board with your character's choice of skills. This highlights one of 
 the good but complicated aspects of Guild Wars, which is that you're free to readjust your character's 
 proficiencies and preferred skills any time you're in a town or outpost.  

          Nightfall's two new character professions, the dervish and the paragon, seem more complex 
 than a lot of the earlier ones.     

  Guild Wars Nightfall gives you even more to manage by introducing the concept of hero characters 
 that join your own created character during the course of the campaign. While it's always been 
 possible to take on computer-controlled henchmen as an alternative to questing or undertaking missions 
 with other human players, the hero characters grow and improve much like your main character does. 
 They'll gain experience levels, and they have their own sets of skills, as well as their own inventories -- and 
 it's up to you to decide what to do with all that. You can even give them basic move orders in 
 battle, though they'll fight and follow automatically for the most part. The hero characters are 
 an interesting way of exposing you to all of the different professions in Guild Wars firsthand, 
 since now you get to choose skills for your computer-controlled allies that are complementary with 
 the skills you want to use. However, managing just your own character is a challenge, so by making 
 you think about how best to develop a growing list of hero characters as well, Nightfall gets a 
 little top-heavy. And since hero characters occupy the same slots in a player's team that could 
 normally go to other human players, it can be even tougher for a casual player to join a group 
 this time around. Overall, the hero system in Nightfall feels like a mixed blessing.     

  Thankfully, there's no real "wrong" way to play, just different and better ways, and the nature 
 of the game is such that you can take it at your own pace. You can take those hero characters and 
 some hirelings with you and just run around Elona, finding new quests and places, fighting its 
 ugly buglike monsters. Or, you can find a good group of players and take on about 20 big, challenging 
 cooperative missions that drive the game's storyline along. You can also take your business to 
 the battle isles and jump into pick-up player-versus-player matches or get into a guild and compete 
 much more seriously. Player-versus-player combat in Guild Wars remains an exciting and intense 
 experience, stressing different strategies and a level of coordination that's distinct from the 
 tactics you'll need to survive when fighting through the quests and missions.  

          Computer-controlled hero characters add a new layer of depth, but they also effectively 
 make for having a lot more mouths to feed.     

  There's a lot here to sink your teeth into, and Guild Wars players have come to expect no less. 
 However, Nightfall's emphasis on adding new content underscores how certain aspects of the underlying 
 game still could use improvement. When you're in one of the game's bustling towns or outposts, 
 you'll generally be surrounded by droves of other players -- evidence of Guild Wars' popularity, 
 but a potentially overwhelming experience for an average player just trying to find a group. There's 
 still no good way to easily get into a group, short of shouting your intentions over and over in 
 the chat channels or just blindly inviting yourself into someone's group or someone else into yours. 
 Guild Wars is a cooperative game, and having to text-chat with others certainly invites cooperation; 
 however, there has to be an easier way to get into the bulk of the game, which still seems intended 
 to cater to hardcore players and their friends.  

  To its credit, Nightfall really isn't just for the Guild Wars elite and their highly organized 
 guild-on-guild battles, since virtually all of the new content can be played solo or cooperatively. 
 However, all of the story-driven questing and exploration is hamstrung by the game's aging presentation. 
 Technically, the game still looks great and sounds great, and the Guild Wars engine seems extremely 
 well optimized such that loading times are very brief -- provided you've already downloaded any content 
 updates to the given area -- and the game runs very nicely in a windowed mode. Excellent artwork 
 for player characters, some great new music pieces that fit Elona's Egyptian theme, and the continent's 
 new flora and fauna also help make the experience more impressive. Yet most of the quests are presented 
 to you in little pop-up text windows, which hardly immerse you into the game's world. A growing 
 list of inside jokes and geeky references, along with the convenient but inexplicable ability to 
 instantly teleport to any major location you've been to, further ensure that this isn't likely 
 to be a game that makes you lose yourself in its deep storyline.  

  There are some interesting elements at work in Nightfall's story, and the mission cutscenes feature 
 some good voice-over work. But there's so much else going on in this game that it's hard to get 
 swept up in the storyline or get particularly attached to any of its major characters, including 
 all those heroes whose stats and inventories you'll be worrying about. The main storyline also 
 sometimes forces you to go out of your way to build a stronger reputation with Elona's defenders 
 before you can proceed to the next major mission, which is a contrived way of preventing you from 
 just powering through the plot and forcing you to explore and undertake smaller quests. This probably 
 won't seem that bad to newer Guild Wars players, but if you've already spent dozens of hours fighting 
 hordes of monsters with your experience level capped at level 20 in previous Guild Wars games, 
 having to grind your way up to the next story mission might seem a little much.  

          Combined with the other Guild Wars games, Nightfall presents a stupefying amount of places 
 to go and things to do.     

  Each of the Guild Wars games has offered dozens if not hundreds of hours of gameplay, between all 
 that they have to offer. So, at worst, Nightfall might be a case of having too much of a good thing. 
 Some of the missions and story content are better than what's been done in Guild Wars in the past, 
 and offer different bonus objectives that can give you good reason to go back into them multiple 
 times. But your decision about whether to delve into this latest chapter should ultimately come 
 down to how much Guild Wars you've already played and how much more you want. Almost needless to 
 say, legions of Guild Wars fans have already delved into Nightfall without a second thought. But 
 if you've had your fill of Guild Wars and would prefer to see a bigger overhaul instead of an emphasis 
 on more of what you're already used to, then you could live without this installment. Or if you 
 haven't played any yet, Nightfall still offers unique and very deep gameplay that combines shades 
 of massively multiplayer gaming, action RPGs, collectible card games, and competitive action games 
 all in one. It's a formula that millions of players around the world are still actively engaged 
 in with good reason.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (162 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gormo4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 7:52 am PT
Review:  Welcome to my review for guild wars nightfall, first things first, you don't need to own any other 
 guild wars games to play it and the nihgtfall box should come with an access key!
  To make sure buy a brand new copy, I've seen several people buy 'factions' of ebay and only recieve 
 the discs and case, you must have an access key.
  
  Once you put in the discs and install the client you should pick the option create a new account, 
 enter your email, your access key and make a password etc..
  From then on you use your email to log in and if you ever want to change your password you get 
 the client to email you a new password, this is simple and safe.
  
  So, what is guild wars? it's set in the middle ages, no guns or technology, just a world of steel 
 and magic.
  
  When you begin you have spaces for 3 characters, when you create the character you get a choice 
 of sex, proffesion and basic physical appearence.
  Basic proffessions include warrior, ranger, monk , mesmer, necromancer and elementalist.
  Unique 
 nightfall proffessions include the dervish and paragon, bassically you can only create an dervish 
 and paragon on the nighttfall campaign (as well as the other basic proffessions)
  Each proffesions has there advantages and disadvantages in combat, warriors are slow, low energy 
 but they have a lot of armour and strong physical attacks.
  Un-like a monk which has strong healing powers and high energy but lacks strong armour and physical 
 attacks.
  There's also unique abilities like the ranger can have a pet, and necromancers can make undead 
 minions out of enemies corpses.
  
  As you come into the world you get given a primary quest, this will lead you to the end of the 
 game and as you do you'll unlock new locations, grow stronger and richer.
  There are also hundreds of side quests which can help you when you need to level up or are short 
 on cash.
  There are complaints and how the level cap is only 20, but I think this is good as when you finish 
 the game you can then use the characters for PvP action which is guild wars main strength.
  Sometimes you'll have primary missions instead, these offer bigger rewards and are more complex 
 than quests.
  
  Guild wars isn't as open as you might think for an mmorpg, you have cities where everybody can 
 visit but when you go outside the map becomes your own personal space, you can also bring other 
 players or henchmen outside with you.
  Depending on the area your in you can bring a certain amonut of others with you.
  Henchmen are 
 NPC's (they're robots bassically) but they can come in handy when there are no players who want 
 to team up.
  
  Nightfall also brings heroes, these are bassicaly your own henchmen who you can customise.
  You 
 get to pick their skills, weapons and combat style, their armour levels up automatically with them.
 
  Basically they're your own PvP characters/personal henchmen.
  
  Each time you level up you earn points to spend on your attributes, each proffesion has 4 attributes, 
 for example, the monk has smiting, healing, protection and divine favour, you can re-allocate these 
 points whenever you want which makes combat very free flowing and it has lots of possibilities
 
  Your heroes also gain exp when fighting and level up.
  
  Titles are also a big deal in guild wars, when you reach a certain acheivment you can add a title 
 underneath your name, for example after you've mastered all missions in factions you unlock the 
 title 'protector of cantha' and then if you master them all on hard mode you unlock 'guardian of 
 cantha' this keeps you going and I espeically was quite motivated by achieving these titles.
  
  Each proffesions has up to 100 skills alone in nightfall and many more if you purchase the 
 other games, skills can be unlocked by buying them for gold, or on a PvP character trading in faction 
 for them.
  You can also have a secondary proffession, altough you won't be able to use their 'main ability' 
 you can still take advantage, for example you can have a warrior/assassin but you won't be able 
 to take advantage of the 'critical strikes' attribute which increases the rate of criticals you 
 hit, but you WILL be able to take advantage of the 'dagger mastery' attribute increasing your damage 
 with daggers.
  
  Altough you can only have 8 skills on your skill bar at a time you can switch them in and out when 
 ever your in an outpost or town, you CAN'T switch skills outside in the wilderness which I think 
 is very reasonable because it allws you to experiment.
  
  You also customise your armour and weapons, these are bought using money and materials the craftsman 
 NPC needs to make the armour/weapons.
  Armour does not drop from monsters and it aways customised to a player so it only fits them, there 
 isn't a broad choice of armours, there are about 12 set choices in nightfall, these include head 
 armour, chest, legs, gloves and boots.
  You can also add insignias and dyes to your armour making them more powerful and decorative.
 
  The higher armour rating your armour has the more expensive it is.
  
  The main way to earn oney is from quests and missions but some people turn to hard core farming, 
 killing monsters for hours on end using special builds.
  
  Once you complete the game once you unlock 'hard mode' this makes enemies a lot tougher and loot 
 a lot more shiny if you know what I mean ;)
  This is when guild wars players get competetive, often players solo extremely hard enemies using 
 a specefic build of 8 skills, this takes a lot of skill but is a quick way of making money.
  
  If you can't be asked to go through half of a campaign to reach level 20 to be able to compete 
 in PvP you can make a PvP character which automatically becomes level 20 with the ability to make 
 custom max armour + weapons and use skills unlocked with faction earnt in PvP activies like random 
 arenas.
  Random arenas bassically is a random selection of 4 players who fight eachother- the last team 
 standing wins and goes to the next fight, you also earn faction.
  
  Graphics are stunning, altough not at all times they're smooth, for example some wall textures 
 are a bit dodgy and layering in some locations.
  You can have the options to edit the graphical options dependng on how powerful your pc is, you 
 can also do this with the sound.
  Cut scenes are also done well, if your with other players you can have the option to 'vote to skip' 
 the cutscene, if all players vote to skip then it is skipped.
  
  Nightfall takes you through an Egyptian styled scape of deserts, forests and evil realms of torment.
 
  You start of on an island which is bassically like the tutorial where you learn all the basics, 
 then you progress to mainland where things become more serious as you venture into the wilderness 
 to deafet an exiled god.
  
  There isn't as much to say abuot sound, music is very typical 'swords and sheilds' fantasy styled.
 
  Sounds effects can also get on your nerve if your using a certain skill over and over again.
 
  Voice overs in cut scenes are brilliant though, no complaints at all from me.
  
  One of the main features of guild wars is obviously you can make guilds, altough it's an expensive 
 process it's worth it, you can customise your own guild cape, buy your own hall and even make alliances 
 with up to 9 other guilds.
  Guilds can also fight each other in freindly or ranked matches.
  
  I reccomend guild wars factions 
 for those who are seeking a high quality mmorpg without monthly subscriptions.
  The main story with one character can be completed in 20-30 hours and PvP and GvG can also add 
 another 40+ hours into the experience not forgetting the hundreds of side quests and exploring 
 there is to do, I think after you've done a lot of side quests they get boring though.
  Quests include kill or fetch bassically, they could improve this in future, missions are normally 
 a lot more complex though making the main story quite enjoyable.
  
  Thanks for reading, I hope this review helped! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Runningback20
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Playing this game makes me more and more pumped for GW2. This game's new addition of heroes adds 
 a dynamic that Factions and Guild Wars had lacked. The Dervish and Paragon classes are also exceptional 
 additions to the game. I am very pleased with my 20 dollar purchase. I've probably put in around 
 40 hours into the game thus far, and I have only scratched the surface. This is a great game for 
 the occasional MMO RPG player, especially since there are no monthly fees. It is also nice to have 
 a skill based game rather than item based. There is no need spending hundreds of hours of gameplay 
 accumulating items, and having to post up at a trade zone for hours to sell them. One may be competitive 
 with basic skills and items. Furthermore, it is important to note the fast-paced story, which allows 
 for expedient and fun replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Patohua1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Ok up until you reach the level cap on this game, it is definitly one of the top games of all times 
 in terms of MMORPG's. However, I got to the level cap in a week or two and I'm not a hardcore gamer 
 really. I wasn't up late at night plugging away or spending 10 hours a day on it. For me it was 
 a quick and enoyable road to level 20. I am sorry but the level cap makes this game completely 
 retarded after a certain point. I know many people are going to get on my case about this, but 
 seriously, why in the world would the level cap be so easy to get to?? I understand that they want 
 to incorperate strategy into the mix and not just win everything by levels. I'm completely fine 
 with that, but make the cap 50 then. After level 20, it is literally impossible to continue playing 
 as a solo player. Sure some quests you can do just fine, but others it is not humanly possible 
 to do by yourself with just the cpu henchmen. That's what really bugs me about this game. The online 
 player communication side of things on this particular game is not very friendly at best. It is 
 hard to pair up and party and for some reason, it just doesn't feel right. I know many people are 
 all into the whole guild is your family and you get to bond with people and stuff, but personally, 
 just give me an easy way to find the kind of players that I need for a team- or better yet, make 
 it so that I don't NEED a team in order to win. Pretty much if you take your main character out 
 for a spin all by his or her lonesome, you are going to die very very easily. I know many people 
 will think that this is a bit harsh, but it really is hard to find people to play with if you aren't 
 in a guild. I've been playing quite awhile and I was never even asked about entering a guild. I 
 had to make my own just so I didn't feel stupid for being the only one without a cape on. So I 
 guess overall I would call this game, strangely enough, cliquey. People really aren't that friendly 
 and everyone wants to just stick with the guilds theyve been in ever since they bought the game. 
 This pretty much left me all by myself for the most part, which I was fine with, except I can't 
 actually complete anything anymore because I'm by myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travisstaggs
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 12:40 pm PT
Review:  This is my favorite Guild Wars out so far I can't wait untill Guild Wars 2, I loved the paragon 
 class in this and the new Hero feature, alright on with the review.
  
  Graphics 10/10: Very good and awesome, environments looks look great and so does the new monsters 
 and such.
  
  Gameplay 10/10: Not really much different then the other Guild Wars except that you get Heroes 
 in this one that are fully customizable and can set there skills for them and everything very fun 
 and addictive.
  
  Sound 10/10: Once again amazing soundtrack and such.
  
  Replay Value 10/10: So much to do and so many side quest you'll be busy for hours.
  
  Overall 
 10/10: Very amazing once again a definite must own for any mmorpg fan.
  
  alright since Gamespot like to be strict for some reason about there character junk i'mma type 
 some random stuff in.
  
  I didn't go to school today mainly because I was up till 3am beating PoP Sands of Time and PoP 
 Warrior Within and God of War just like I said I might so in my reviews for those games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwndOo
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  When i bought this game i was kinda new... I installed it registered and play it. When u begin 
 u think like, oh, nothing special. So i stopped playing it. But when i started again, i was fascinated 
 with the costumisation, missions, nice controls and weird looking creatures :D. I think its the 
 best of series, becouse difficulty is just right (except missions: get rank general, that ones 
 u kinda stuck in) . Great game if you are mmorpg fan altho once you finish the game, there isnt 
 much to do (except dungeons) if you dont like pvp. I have all three and at this the quests are 
 rewarding, contrary to first game where you got small amount of xp for kinda hard mission. The 
 best of all, its free to play, with better qualty than many others pay to play games. So, great 
 game, worth trying and in my opinion best of all series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Everclearules
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  At first Guild Wars did not appeal to me as I'm mainly looking for party based, single player games. 
 Yes, there were henchmen, but they were not customizable. After finding out Nightfall had introduced 
 heroes, henchmen that you can customize, I decided to give it a try. While Guild Wars certainly 
 has its problems, overall I'm really enjoying the game.
  
  It is mostly due to the fact Guild Wars just *feels* different than other games. By this I mean, 
 in most ARPGs now, the game play is little different from any other game in the genre. I must say 
 it's encouraging to see a game developer take a seemingly overused formula and somehow come out 
 with something different.
  
  I suppose I should actually explain what the game play *is*, though as I mentioned before, it is 
 pretty much the same formula. I must mention that while I have put some hours into the game, I 
 still only play casually and was thus not too interested in Guilds / PvP / Grouping. You'll have 
 to read other reviews for any information on those aspects.
  
  A short description: In Guild Wars, you take a band of either other players or computer controlled 
 henchmen / heroes, and adventure together taking on quests and finding a variety of items, gaining 
 experience to raise your character's level along the way. Again, a very familiar formula.
  
  One of the first, and best, differences is leveling itself; Guild Wars keeps it short. The 
 highest level you can achieve is level 20, which takes comparatively little time to other games 
 of its kind. It is great for when you just do not feel that spending a week gaining one level is 
 an enjoyable use of your time.
  
  The second big difference is Guild War's character development. Players can choose among 10 character 
 classes for their primary profession and any of the others for their secondary. For instance, you 
 can select Warrior as your primary and Elementalist for your secondary. This allows you to use 
 both class' skills for your character. The difference from a War/Ele and Ele/War being that each 
 class has one special 'attribute' which you only get when that class is your primary.
  
  'Attributes' are areas where your character can specialize. An Elementalist may choose to specialize 
 in Air, Water, Fire, Earth magic, or Energy Storage for example. A secondary class adds even more 
 areas. So, an Elementalist may choose to specialize in Air Magic in the Elementalist skill sets, 
 and Death Magic from the Necromancer class should they choose it as their secondary class. You 
 raise attributes by spending attribute points, which you gain when you level. You'll accumulate 
 enough points to raise two attributes to their highest level, or (since attributes cost more as 
 you raise them) spread them out among three or four skills.
  
  Before leaving to adventure, you can freely change any of your skills as well as your attributes, 
 and even your secondary class. A deciding factor in what you choose in all this is that you can 
 only use eight skills at a time. This forces you to think about what you'll need for a mission, 
 as well as requiring a little trial and error to find a build that will allow you to complete some 
 mission or area. The downside is that this often takes... a little trial and error. It can get 
 frustrating having to repeat an area multiple times, especially if you get a decent way through 
 just to find out your current build simply can not defeat a boss. This is most prevalent when you 
 first start but does diminish as you get more familiar with the game.
  
  As you complete quests and missions, you'll gain heroes to add to your party. While you have a 
 party limit of eight, you may only fill that with three heroes, henchmen must fill the other four. 
 Heroes have a predetermined primary profession, but you can select any class for their secondary. 
 You may also customize their weapons, armor, attributes, and skills in the very same way you can 
 for your own character. There are hundreds of skills so there is plenty of customization options 
 for those who enjoy building their own party.
  
  AI is not brilliant, but workable. I have completed the entire Nightfall campaign with henchmen 
 and heroes, and am still working on the other three. At times you can clearly see some missions 
 are meant for groups, but overall I have not had much trouble completing everything with henchmen 
 / heroes. Unfortunately there are some skills the AI simply can not use which limits builds (and 
 is why an organized group is always superior) , though there are some instances the AI can outshine 
 human players. Interrupts, for example, require a quick reaction to stop an enemies spell, and 
 this the AI does well. Prioritizing which spell to interrupt though... not so much. A Necromancer 
 minion master the AI also handles well as it can select his / her minions much faster and smarter 
 than a human can.
  
  Enemies are also a bit smarter than compared to other games. They will not just focus on the 'tank', 
 nor will they happily stand in Area of Effect spells. This somewhat effectively forces players 
 away from the whole tank / heal / damage mindset. You really must form a party that works together, 
 not individually. This is also helped by the skills of different classes often complementing each 
 other (synergy) , which is a nice way of not forcing your characters to work together, but allowing 
 you to enjoy working together.
  
  Generally I do not care much for graphics because in most games they are merely a waste. Guild 
 Wars is an exception, the artists who created these graphics have done an amazing job. The game 
 is absolutely beautiful. Sure, it is not as technically impressive as other games, but again, those 
 are graphics I do not give a damn about. Games that make a clear case that games are indeed art, 
 as is Guild Wars, I *can* appreciate. Graphics can add a lot to a game's atmosphere and it is a 
 damn shame the vast majority can not achieve what Guild Wars does. Another plus, it is this beautiful 
 and does not require insane computer specs.
  
  However, other parts of the game are just laughably bad. That is, the story. One concession that 
 I must make is that it at least takes itself somewhat seriously, and I mention this only because 
 I have heard how this very issue ruined the atmosphere in Hellgate: London. Watching some of the 
 cut scenes, though, where characters are trying their best to instill emotion with horrid writing, 
 it's just too embarrassingly bad you have to laugh at it. It at least does not completely ruin 
 the atmosphere the graphics create, but the quality between the two (graphics and story) is somewhat 
 shocking.
  
  I mostly just ignore the story and, though the game play does have faults, overall I have an enjoyable 
 time with Guild Wars. It is definitely worth the money I spent. There is a lot I have not mentioned, 
 such as the whole other side of the game with PvP, but it would take far too long to detail every 
 aspect of the game, there is a lot of content here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reduserisk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Everything that can be said about Nightfall I've pretty much said in my previous reviews for Guild 
 Wars Factions and Prophecies. Its decent but not anything special and its better than Factions 
 for sure, but still not as good as Prophecies was. 
  
  Basically, in true Guild Wars fashion the game looks good, has no monthly fee, requires little 
 to no grinding and the pvp is where the game shines. 
  The pve, just as in Prophecies and Factions is broken and shallow. The game play is highly linear 
 and coupled with the heaving instancing of the game world the player is often left feeling disconnected. 
 The things I liked were a slightly better pve campaign than Factions, but not better than Prophecies, 
 and more freedom to control npc's/bots that accompany you.
  
  Basically, if you want more of the same pvp with little pve innovation and depth then Nightfall 
 is for you. After playing all three campaigns, I feel that Factions and Nightfall have maintained 
 a status of mediocrity, and have failed to truly improve upon the Prophecies campaign with the 
 exception of the new classes and npc controll. Also, this game is still completely about pvp, as 
 is the entire Guild Wars franchise. Now, if pvp is the only thing you want to do then stick with 
 Prophecies, Factions and Nightfall and be happy. That wont cut it for me though, I need a game 
 that allows me to extensively enjoy both. If you want to really jump into a large world that caters 
 to serious mmorpg play for both pve and pvp, offers living open ended worlds that are no where 
 near as linear as GW, and offers a tremendous amount of lore and depth, then you need to look elsewhere. 
 My current suggestions would be World of Warcraft or Everquest 2, with WoW taking the lead. Also 
 keep an eye on Conan as it works out its kinks over the next few months.
  
  I would recommend this game along with any of the other GW campaigns to the following: people who 
 are new to the genre and need a game to ease them in, to very casual players who just don't have 
 time, or for those people who are looking for competitive and very balanced pvp and could give 
 a hoot about pve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: confusd
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2008 2:47 pm PT
Review:  nightfall is another additon to the guild wars franchise and the continent, Elona, (ahem, i thought 
 that was a place in the crystal desert in prophecies? wth) is a new african based area, basically 
 the plotline is still cliche. "save the world from darkness and so on. but honestly as a prohecies 
 fan i feel a little jipped by the expansions, oh sure, the new players get 2 new classes to start 
 with, and if we want them, bang out fifty bucks. but it is a free to play online so, they have 
 to make money somehow. The new classes are fun, dervishes have been nerfed numerous times since 
 their introductions, however. the continent is huge and a fun place to explorer, youll want to 
 play this game if you are a guild wars fan, the new missions, new gameplay twists, minigames, and 
 ever expanding community make it a great time to start. the questionsare, is it worth the cash, 
 and is it fun? the answers are, yes, and yes. just so you know, playing all 4 guild wars campaigns, 
 i have lost over 1090 hours of my life in 33 months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddli
Rating: 8
Date: May 16, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  I have never played Prophecies nor Factions. Nightfall is my first guild war game. Nightfall is 
 great, you dont have to look for other players for help to grind or do dungeons, you could just 
 use computer generated players for help. The graphics is brilliant and vibrant, the sound effect 
 is amazing. 
  
  Recently i began playing WOW, after i reached level 50 on WOW, i began to realize just how much 
 deeper WOW is than Nightfall. Seriously, I didnt believe other people when they said Guild Wars 
 is nothing compared to WOW. Now i am a believer. WOW is much much deeper in terms of game play, 
 classes, characters, spells and attacks. WOW offers so much freedom that you literally infuse with 
 the world. The only thing WOW didnt compare up to Nightfall is probably the graphics and the ease 
 of travel.
  
  Im sorry to say this but i am a WOWer/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErkiB
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  There isnt anything good in this game rather the fact that you will be able to have heros. otherwise 
 its just boring and dry.
  Nothing new ,the theme just sucks the entire map looks like a bunch of sand mixed together. Monster 
 are also a weak point and the quests are weird only run around and kill .missions are long and 
 boring but they get better after you have finished 80 % of them. You dont even have to finish missions 
 to get trough the entire world. I think Nightfall is alot worse then Factions and GW original. But 
 it is definetly a great games but nothing much has improved.
  
  top 5 ratings:
  Quests/missions:5/10
  monsters:8/10
  new chars:3/10
  weps/Armor:9/10
  World:5/10
  
 
  This game should have been alot better cause Factions was better than prophecies and I was hoping 
 that nightfall would be a shining star but I was wrong this game is an official joke (Dont get me 
 wrong I love GW and have all of the games even nightfall the thing is I was expecting for a better 
 add-on) .
  Its a good game overall but it isnt fun without the two first games. new proffesions really are 
 useless (As you can see not alot of players like the new two chars of Nightfall) but its a must 
 have for a GW fan.
  Its a totally okey game. I mean Im rating this game against Factions and prophecies If i wasnt rating 
 against them it would probably be a ten but I just think it could have been alot better than it 
 was.
  Overall I just have mixed Reactions about the game but officially I think that Nightfall could 
 have been alot better but I still like Nightfall and I reccomend it to everybody I know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feibie
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  ok basically for anyone that loves just pvping all day in an MMO guildwars is for you.
  
  if you like RPG guildwars is also for you because although it's an MMO you don't have to play with 
 other players cause well... you've got these bots/ais that are called henchmen and they can help 
 you through the game.
  
  i like this game but when the other campaigns came out it sorta failed... 
  the new campaigns 
 just felt the same even though they had new stuff i dunnoes, i just think they can't compare to 
 the original - prophecies
  
  like nightfall introduced heroes - they're like henchment but you can customize their skills, attributes, 
 equipment and have better control of them but you could only have 3 at a time which was... a bit 
 lame...
  
  factions had kurzick and luxon alliance battles and new arenas but tbh... that's all it really 
 was, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thorn994
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Nightfall is another great installment to Guild Wars. The campaign really stands out and is really 
 fun. Basically, you are a member of a guardian/army group called the Sunspears that protect the 
 continent of Elona from evil beasties and other threats. As the game goes on, the storyline takes 
 an interesting but not expected twist and you have to fight an evil god that someone freed. The 
 game is fun and action packed, the graphics are excellent, and once again the music is awesome. 
 The two new classes are pretty cool, and it has new skills and some pretty new awesome places to 
 explore. Nightfall is a great sequel to Guild Wars and is worth looking at and playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mali_m96
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 11:43 am PT
Review:  nightfall is a brilliant game xxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx 
 xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx 
 xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx 
 xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx 
 xxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxx.............. 
 xxxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx x x 
 x x x x x xxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxxx xxxx xxx xxx xxx xxx x xxxxx x xxxx x xxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxx 
 xxx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bradistheman711
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 4:02 pm PT
Review:  Its about time the NPC system was updated. Heros are much more versatile then henchmen any day. 
 I just hate how you can only bring 3 at one time.
  
  The Dervish is the best part of Nightfall. There fast, made for running, chalk full of enchantments 
 and avatars. It can even hit more then one foe at a time with its scythe! The dervish is my personal 
 favorite. Its the best class besides the monk (which will never be fully replaced) .
  
  Paragons there fun, high amour and use a classic weapon the spear. They are warriors with a face 
 lift. But many people (including me) think they look REALLY bad. Only upside to the paragon is 
 that is so hard to dodge there spears and GREAT healing!
  
  I like how long and interesting the Nightfall storyline is. It offers a lot of swings and twists. 
 Plus is the longest storyline yet! :)
  
  Guilds Wars just got easier :)
  
  Happy Gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanvett
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  Though I was disappointed at Guild Wars: Factions, I still bought Nightfall in late 2006. Fortunately, Nightfall 
 is a good game indeed. It is much better than the second series Factions.
  
  Nightfall also has two new classes as Factions does. Missions are good and they are more than Guild 
 Wars: Factions. Music of Nightfall is good. One of the most important features is the new PVP arena 
 "hero battle", and you can customize your own heroes (hirelings) . You can set what skills you want 
 on your heroes. You can also upgrade armors and weapons on them. It really makes more fun in singleplayer 
 missions and even team PVP. Last, the hero battle is really tough. It's somehow a bit like "mini" 
 RTS gaming instead of normal RPG fighting. I am glad Nightfall is truly a good series of Guild 
 Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misha97
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:54 am PT
Review:  First of all the graphics and sound is good. The new stuff: 2 new proffesions, Paragorn and Dervish. 
 The Dervish is kind of like a mix of a monk and a warrior. Usually the Devish is the best for runs. 
 The Paragorn is kind of like a support proffesion and isn't good if your style of play is solo.
 
  The best thing is you can control heroes. Heroes are kind of like henchmen but you can change 
 their weapon, skills, and second proffesion. You get heroes through quests.
  The game is based on ancient Egypt. The biggest problem (my opinion) is that the characters hair 
 dues look HORRIBLE! Factions and Prophecies characters had better haur dues. And the monk looks 
 too fat. Overall the game is pretty good. I recommend for Guild Wars to make the characters look 
 better. Looking forward to Guild Wars 2. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2007 8:29 pm PT
Review:  Nightfall is the newest chapter in the Guild Wars series. This time around it adds an African theme 
 to it.
  
  You still got the six original classes in Nightfall but instead of the Assassin and Ritualist you 
 got the Dervish, which attacks with a scythe and the Paragon which throws spears. The new classes 
 are really cool.
  
  There is really nothing different in this game. One feature that they added to this game was the 
 ability to have heroes. Heroes are NPC's which level up and are all ways with you except in towns 
 or outposts. The heroes are stronger than the henchmen.
  
  The graphics still look pretty good but now there are better looking games.
  
  The sound is 
 still good sounding.
  
  If you liked the other Guild Wars then you will like Guild Wars Nightfall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funnycowpie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 7:31 am PT
Review:  This is a nice addition to the guild wars games. If you don't , Guild Wars is an MMORPG which means 
 you can play online with other people and talk with friends. Guild Wars: Nightfall comes with a 
 whole new continent, as well as two new character classes; the Dervish and the Paragon. Tons of 
 new quests and items are avaliable with a new story and new areas to explore. It is also a stand 
 alone game, so if you don't have prophecies to play but you may want to check out the other games. 
 The only thing about Guild Wars: Nightfall is that the gameplay hasn't changed and there aren't 
 any major changes. Despite this, its still a solid expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: templargunman
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 26, 2007 6:36 pm PT
Review:  This game compared to the other two was bad, horrible compared to the original and not that great 
 compared to Factions. I've played it all before, it's become even easier with heroes, leaving multiplayer 
 to slowly wither into a chatbox. I gave up on other people for a while, till I got stuck, and I 
 just became sick of people saying, drop joe, I'll add my hero. Heroes don't replace people, people 
 you can talk to, people you can work with, people you can make a plan with, and if it's 2 people 
 running around with a bunch of trigger happy low iq heroes tagging along it's a recipe for disaster. 
 The plot also had shallowed out a lot, collapsing into one, short story that they could still sell 
 for 50 bucks without really working at it. Prophesies: a massive adventure across 6 massively different 
 areas. Factions: a game where you go across 4 different regions and actually pick a side that allows 
 much more gameplay than the campaign. Nightfall: dur... lets go kill bad guys who are doing something 
 bad and we're the good guys, the world is back and white, your with us or against us, no grey and 
 no color... dur... I don't know if I want to get Eye of the North, figuring the acronym spells 
 out GWEN. What if the pattern stays the same? Will it be you meet Gwen and kill the baddie then 
 kill the other baddie and there is no storyline? Or will the storyline be something along the lines 
 of hi I'm Gwen, I'm good, we've got to kill (insert bad guy name here) before he unleashes some 
 ancient evil just like in the last 3. Oh noes! He released it! No worry, we'll just defeat it anyway 
 because it makes NO SENSE! If someone wants to tell me the basic plot of GWEN they can PM me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr4goN_PL
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 29, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  ArenaNet yet again fails to disappoint me with another great Guild Wars game. Nightfall takes place 
 four years after Prophecies (six before the Searing and two before Factions) , and it tells the story 
 of an abandoned and forgotten god of knowledge called Abaddon. The thing takes place in Elona - 
 the Land of the Golden Sun. A descendant of the famed Turai Ossa -- Varesh Ossa -- is trying to 
 free Abaddon from his chains in the Realm of Torment and destroy the whole world. Only one of her 
 three generals knows of this plan -- General Kahyet -- and is helping Varesh make it happen. The 
 other two generals: Morgahn and Bayel are fanatically following Varesh's orders. Elona has no direct 
 ruler -- there are rulers in three separate provinces. Elder Suhl and the Order of Sunspears rule 
 Istan -- a small island on the southwest, Varesh Ossa rules Kourna -- a land consisting of great 
 sands located on the southeast, and Vabbi which is ruled by three princes, and is known of great 
 wealth. To the west of Vabbi there lies land called the Desolation, and is inhabited only by undead 
 and demons of the sand. All those provinces don't fight with each other, as they are dependent 
 on each other. The Order of the Sunspears is dedicated to protection of all Elona. Kormir -- the 
 Spearmarshal of the Sunspears -- one day finds out the unclean business of Varesh and her generals 
 in Istan. She and the heroes are chasing after her and don't allow her to invoke Nightfall -- an 
 event that will summon Abaddon to the world and change it into a permanent night. As you find enough 
 evidence of Varesh's whereabouts, you travel to Lahtenda Bog to confront general Kahyet directly. 
 As Kahyet dies, the civil war among the provinces of Kourna and Istan breaks out.
  The game brings in two new professions -- the holy Dervish and motivating Paragon. The dervishes 
 are sandmen chosen by the gods. They pray to the wind and earth for blessings, then they unleash 
 the fury of their scythe to defeat their enemies. They can also become avatars of the gods for 
 a period of time. Each of five avatars has its own set of pros and cons . The Paragon motivates 
 the whole party using his wide range of shouts -- ones provide healing and energy, ones weaken 
 their enemies in some way by making them more vulnerable to some attacks and attacks with a spear.
 
  Graphics are the best in the game as of 29th of August. The coming Eye of the North expansion 
 will be of course prettier than the present one.
  Sound is very good. The voice acting is well cast, but the whole game lacks that unique feeling. 
 Music is great, the well-known composer Jeremy Soule did a fantastic job with this one.
  Gameplay is as good as ever, this time ArenaNet added heroes -- a set of personal henchmen NPCs 
 which you must equip and choose their skills like with your own character. The authors also added 
 new type of gameplay for PvP involving heroes. These arenas are called Hero Battles. It is where 
 two players fight with each other while using the set of three Heroes. In April 29th, ArenaNet 
 added the Hard Mode to provide bigger challenge for those, who completed each of the campaigns 
 by simply changing the mobs' level and skills. Some of the bosses now carry two elite skills with 
 them! They also have a chance of dropping a book . These books provide your character with skills 
 and are worth enormous money. A few more guild halls have been added to suit the Egyptian looks 
 of the campaign, but nothing (!?) more has been added.
  In fact, I find GW: N very entertaining, and I'm guessing you will too! Go ahead, give it a try! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crypt_mx
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars Nightfall lets you play through and amazing story line. This was my favorite part of 
 nightfall because the story makes you feel like you are actually fighting to save the world from 
 darkness. You play through as a sunspear, a chosen warrior like a Star Wars Jedi. Varesh, a ruthless 
 captain trys to unleash the powerful darkness of a banished God...... Abbadon. You must go into 
 a portal of doom to face off against this God in his own Realm. But there are many other surprises 
 amoung the way. This story is great, powerful , well done and has many pleasant rewards. This game 
 has nice graphics as you explore through an african setting. The armors and weapons look good, 
 as a matter of fact, the whole game does this time around. This game also brings to your control 
 Heros, which are customizable henchmen. You can set their skills and weapons, to make the ultimate 
 team. Unfortunately, the PvP seems lost. There is a new PvP Hero Battle, where you must use only 
 NPC heros. This isnt as fun as it sounds. Heros dont work well because they cannot take direct 
 orders or think. So in battle they dont work out that well. But if you like using your heros, then 
 this isnt bad, for some people.
  
  This game is amazing if you like PVE or Player v. s Enviroment.
  This game is also good if you 
 want to hear a great story told.
  If you need a good story , you should pick up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheRooskie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 5:25 pm PT
Review:  In the mass jumble of MMO's these days, it's hard to choose which fantasy cliche' you're willing 
 to experience. But in the midst of this rat race, NCSoft continues its tradition of free online 
 play and an engaging PvP system. Even the new campaign element throws up an equally compelling 
 story as Nightfall's predecessors. While it shares the same formula for storytelling and a fast 
 paced leveling-system, it's hard too subtract that from the previous installments, due to the fact 
 that this is a standalone game. If you have an existing character in the Prophecies or Factions 
 campaigns, with a simple quest completion, you can bridge the two game together entirely. Nightfall 
 adds two entirely new character classes with their own unique sets of skills, and will most certainly 
 add exciting and new options for core secondary professions. As much as I would throw this game 
 all of the praise in the world, I have to admit to the obvious shortcomings. Although the games 
 content is broad enough to add another 100hours to your guild wars experience, there are many elements 
 that I would recommend to the dedicated and hardcore players. If you are new to this series, the 
 Player Versus Player element is no breeze. Even in the random arenas. If you want to make a truly 
 great character, effective in more manners than one, you will need to dedicate an excessive amount 
 of time learning skills and acquiring more powerful weapons to stand a chance against veteran GW 
 players. But, then again if you are looking for a cooperative experience, with many casual players 
 such as yourself, that also is possible. The campaign, definitely takes some strange turns unlike 
 the previous GW installments. All in all, the Guild Wars series is meant to be a compelling MMO 
 RPG that you can pick up and lay down anytime you want, without the MONTHLY fees. And Nightfall 
 is no exception. Although it seems to cater more to the hardcore gamer, it clearly adds a slew 
 of exciting new content to the Guild Wars Universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metyler29
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  This Game Is The Best Game I Have EVER PLAYED, i bought this game quite a while ago, and i really 
 Honestly can't stop playing it! it may make me sound like a nerd but i cant ever Stop PLAYING IT. 
 This Game is Huge, and brilliant, i think this game is the closest MMORPG your going to get to 
 WoW, And From what i have heard about Guild Wars 2 It Might even Be Better. This game is one of 
 the most realistic games i have ever played, NON-Stop Action will keep you glued to your seat, 
 all 20 missions tie in with every other Quest, This Game Is 1 GIANT Story, not like other games 
 that are all over the place, Every part of this Game Ties in with Everyother Part. Tons of Places 
 to explore, Hundreds of Items And Hundreds Of Skills. Although it can get glitchy in some places, 
 But That Completely depends on what kind of computer you have. I Will Have to say this game is 
 almost Perfect. Although you cannot be Different Races Yet, and also it Lacks a 'Z Axis' Meaning 
 you cannot Jump, But Both of those are going to Change in the upcoming Guild Wars 2. i would Recommend 
 this Game HIGHLY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llama1107
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  Nightfall is a great game, but lacks overall enjoyment as an RPG. The characters are varied and 
 the size of the enormous map is great, but when you reach a certain point, everything is the same.
 
  
  The map and size of game: +Enormous, the biggest game map I've ever played. Many Quests and characters 
 along the way. Great quality and creativity. -Can be tedious to travel across by foot!!!
  
  Characters:+Great and deep characters. Unique fighting styles and easy to maneuver. Fit into the 
 plot well. -You can only have 3 heroes out at once, so you never really use all of the potential 
 there could be.
  
  Plot:+Creative and interesting. Unique. Easy to follow. -Can be a bit overdone.
  
  Gameplay:+The 
 ablilities you use are beyond cool. There is a lot to do and to see. Many monsters. Great quality. 
 Many missions and characters. A lot of weapons. Control 8 people in a party!!! -Fighting gets old 
 quickly. The battles are all fought the same, and for the most part you try to avoid them. Max 
 level is 20, from here, it is hard to stay interested. This is a great game, but the lack of gaining 
 levels (max 20) and the gameplay just getting plain old boring, really ruined it. It does fill up 
 a lot of time and is a good source of entertainment.
  
  Price to buy it at: $50- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A1B2C3CAL
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  From the moment you create your character you can tell guild wars is a class act and has made a 
 place all of its own in great pc game classics. I can't find one huge negative thing to say about 
 the guild wars series and arenanet.
  
  This is a game you must try out yourself to see if your going to enjoy it. So many things to keep 
 you busy, I feel this game is well worth the price paid. From the PvE to the PvP it has something 
 for everyone.
  
  From the casual player to the hardcore, you can play as you want and not worry about not playing 
 for a few weeks and seeing your money go down the drain as in other pay to play games.
  
  Each of the 3 games GW prophecies, GW factions and GW nightfall are stand alone games and you do 
 not need one to play the other. Soon the expansion pack will be out called GW eye of the north 
 which you will need one of the 3 above games to be able to play GW: EN. This expansion will open 
 the way and set up the storyline to Guild Wars 2 that is being reported to be released sometime 
 in 2008.
  
  The Guild Wars games have something for everyone... casual players and hardcore alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GriffinLord602
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 8, 2007 6:08 am PT
Review:  With Nightfall I found that gameplay has pretty much stayed the same, but for me, I found it still 
 effective and enticing to play. This instalment brings yet another continent and new classes, and 
 a brand new system (The hero System) which enables you to collect heroes (NPCs) on your journey, 
 and unlike henchmen, their not as stupid as you get to control them to a certain degree but this 
 can be confusing during battle plus as you go along with your heroes, they level up with you and 
 gain experience, and to make it even better you get to put whatever powers in them you want, for 
 example. If you have a warrior hero, then you get to put whatever warrior powers you have collected 
 with your warrior characters. I really do think this is a better alternative to henchmen but I 
 still think its hard to get the most out of your heroes when you have to control yourself also.
 
  When you explore the continent of Nightfall (Elona) you will find it has an ancient Egyptian feel 
 and has staggering beauty even better than factions which I thought had an astounding continent 
 this has better. So like in factions when it comes to characters not much graphics have been enhanced, 
 but when it comes to landscape, guild wars is always improving what they can, and could do.
  When it comes to campaign play or PVP play, well this time round it does focus more on the campaign, 
 but in my opinion it still wasnt as good as the Guild Wars: Prophecies campaign, but it was better 
 than the Factions one. When it comes to PVP it still gives off an amazing rush of excitement but 
 not much has really changed about how much you can do with it.
  Now I will first review gameplay:
  The gameplay for this game remains typically the same, but 
 still effective as I have always thought, but this time it brings more complexity due to the hero 
 system and having to control them is a tough job.
  Graphics:
  The graphics for this game is another typical way of how guild wars have gone, not much character 
 enhanced visuals. But where the environment is concerned, they have increased the potential with 
 massive effort and looks stunning as usual, and continues to amaze people.
  Sound:
  The sound was better all round maybe not as good as Prophecies, but much better than Factions, 
 because in this the Voice acting was much more real and made you believe the story that you are 
 woven into.
  Value:
  The value for this game is undoubtedly amazing, its cheap for the retail price, and NO MONTHLY 
 SUBSCRIPTIONS so really there is no questioning about the value of this piece of art.
  Reviewers tilt:
  In all this game is well worth a buy and play, for only around &pound;10-&pound;15 
 you cant fault how cheap this game is, and how good the game is for it. So if you havent got it 
 why are you reading this? GO GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0520426177
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 22, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  I played Guild Wars for +1,250hours, wich means i know what i'm talking about: P (charr name Lord 
 Zarebeck) Now Guild Wars Nightfall starts of in the world of Elona, kinda similar to Ancient egypt 
 or something. Anyways u got trhough a traingn (i never did it: P) then u start off doing a Very simple 
 mission, do some quests and kill monsters etc... Well the usual, now the new and good things in 
 NF is Heroes, Dervs (best runners) and Paragorns wich aren't liked by many, but i love them: P so 
 well basicly heroes are Good, depending on how good you are. By that i mean that u set they're 
 skills so the better skills u unlocked the better they can be, same with weapons. So if you do 
 not have good skills then Hench might be better. The world is big and cool, the coolest place is 
 without doubt Vabbi. Nightfall has some of the best farming places in GW (including UW, FoW) but if 
 u have NOT played Guild Wars Before i would suggest u start with Factions. Or prophecis but for 
 Proph u need to be paticent coz u will not become lvl 20 fast... Now as in all Guild Wars games 
 the diffuclty is VERY varuing In the begging it's easy and at the end u meet Foes that are 8lvls 
 higher, or even 12 lvls higher if u do Hard Mode (unlocked when completing the game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knut_The_Noob
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 21, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  I have to say, it's the best mmorpg, fantastic story, many quests, great AI and the new classes 
 are also great fun. But there is an problem you have to play the game 2 hours until you know how 
 to skill (there are only 8 skills you can take with you) . The Good: Two new classes: DERVISH: fights 
 with scythe, can heal himself and make lots of damage (if you've skill him well)
  Paragon: fights with a speer, have many calls and a fantastic armament. Guild Wars nightfall has 
 the same graphic like Guild Wars or Guild Wars Factions but itt's still the best graphic in a mmorpg 
 The game takes so much time you dont play it through in 30 hours you need about 50 hours till you've 
 beaten abbadon, but then you get some extra ELITE missions. If you play the game till the end youdont 
 stop because you get better weapons better armor etc . Fantastic Storyline. The Bad: There are 
 many Ai Glitches and graphic glitches, thats, yeah what should i say, funny and bad. The music 
 is wonderful but there are about ten different music tracks, that to less music for an mmorpg. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xiaphas917
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 16, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars has always been a unique game. With the new expansion nightfall you get a new area to 
 discover, and two new races, and a new system that allows you to have hero's and use them when 
 you want. The first game took place in sort of a knights kingdom sort of setting while the expansion 
 to that had a asian enviroment. Well nightfall enviroment is all about the egyptian style which 
 is sort of cool. The new classes are really fun the deverish a scythe wielding warriors who use 
 area of effect attacks to destroy their enemies while the paragon is a class that boasts the stats 
 of there allies and also throws a deadly spear. The new heros system adds a new touch to the game 
 allowing you to basically beat a good part of the game only using them while in the first two games 
 the henchman that you could use made it basically impossible to beat the game. Now with all these 
 new things the game has its flaws. The game's difficulty has been lowered and thus make it so easy 
 to go from level 1-20 in a weekend and once you get to level 20 like most mmorpg's the game gets 
 boring. All you really have to do then is pvp in arena's and do the remaining missions just to 
 see what happens. Those flaws are what bring the game down the most but other then that its a great 
 expansion. The game has an OK story line and the free online play is nice after playing so many 
 mmorpg's that require a payment. Good game, worth buying unless your not really into those role 
 playing games. Get past its flaws and it becomes a nice game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Motiv3
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 7, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars continues to pursue to maintain its percentage of gamers in the MMO community and with 
 this sequel, its done exactly that... Nightfall allows players to experience new content, new friends, 
 new foes without having to compromise on the things that made them in love with the game in the 
 first place. The game itself.
  
  Although graphically superb, gameplay wise i felt it lacked in some areas and personally after 
 levelling up i simply lost interest in the game. That could have been just me. Visually and regarding 
 the sound another masterpeice and as game producers start to spend more cash in their wallets in 
 other areas of gaming and not on just graphics and how many pixels games are now adding more depth 
 to their game... and in nightfall this is no exception.
  
  Guild wars lovers buy it, MMO new comers, buy it... heck everyone buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RexTTer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 4, 2007 12:19 am PT
Review:  I started to play Nightfall at the begining of the year with my girlfriend after we had left WoW. 
 Immediately we were blown away by all the WoW beating features that have no doubt already been 
 detailed here in many other reviews. For us, this game was perfect. We were able to create our 
 characters and go out adventuring together with the help of our heros. This was very important 
 to us as we prefer to adventure together, helping and supporting one another, without having to 
 stand about for an hour trying to recruit a party.
  
  The Nightfall campaign was long and challenging, with many interesting twists to the story. When 
 we completed it we bought Prophecies and then Factions very soon afterward and continued our great 
 enjoyment with new characters. We have 3-4 level 20 characters each for when Eye of the North comes 
 out later this year. Really looking forward to that!
  
  Throughout our gaming with GW we have only two complaints. Some of the missions are just a little 
 too challenging and could do with a save feature or a resurection shrine in them. The challenge 
 does make you re-think your character builds and can be good in that way.
  
  The second complaint would be the penalty for dying. Minus 60% can be very severe and can force 
 a mission restart as it's almost impossible to reduce it back to zero once it becomes this high.
 
  
  My girlfriend and I have had months and months of great fun playing the GW games and have not seen 
 any other game to even come close to eclipsing them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Master_Ewok
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 31, 2007 1:28 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars Night Fall is set in the world of Elona. blah blah blah.
  Anyway, in NF ( Night Fall) you get two new professions, Dervish and Paragon. ( which i will describe 
 later on) .
  NF is probably the most PVE (player Vs. Environment) game out of the current three. In NF you can 
 leave an outpost with heroes - a new form of henchmen that you can customise fully and control 
 more than the henchies. When you leave a outpost you can go to a Sun spear Scout which will tell 
 you what creatures are lurking about, you and your party can then go out and kill the particular 
 monsters for Sun spear points, points that go into a title which can unlock skills and what not, 
 as well as getting Sun spear points you earn double XP for killing the monsters you are told to 
 kill.
  
  Anyway, as the story progresses you earn more heroes and get the choice between one hero or another.
 
  
  Finally- Classes
  
  The Dervish is a class that uses a scythe weapon and uses the power of the wind and earth to attack 
 multiple foes at once. the Dervish's main elite skills are the ability to take form of a God. every 
 god has a special power and attributes.
  
  The Paragon is a holy Spear throwing warrior that is mainly used a party Buffing, and mainly looks 
 like a angel when using skills. The paragon's main skills consist of converting damage back to 
 the enemy or by protecting the party by health buffs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Exacly the same Gameplay
  Exacly the same Graphics
  Exacly the same Sound
  Exacly the same Valute
  And exacly the same Tilt
  
  BUT THATS not always a bad thing (sometimes)
 
  
  I must say I very much liked this game at its time and I played forever but then its just gone 
 for me. The free online is a very good deal. The thing is.. if it costed money I whouldn't of bought 
 it..
  
  So if you want to play the same game again then go ahead and buy this. spend 50 bucks for something 
 your already got then be my guest. yes there are some new things abilities people. but it doesn't 
 seem... idk how to describe.... difrent i guess.
  
  I hope you make the right decision. and don't get me wrong. This game is fun but... only buy 1. or 
 2 wait for guildwars 2 i guess but buy this game!
  
  All in all this game Guildwars in general is a fun RPG game with free online gaming and player 
 versus player action..
  
  you will enjoy this game for a long period of time creating ur person in a fantasy world with desint 
 graphics actualy but sometimes crudy gameplay but.. this game will be remmebered and played like 
 WOW and Runescape.. even though I hate both of those games lol..
  
  thanks for reading this review through now you can disagree or agree thanks... but this is just 
 my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RRLevering
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 20, 2007 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I bought the original Guild Wars right when it first came out a couple years ago. I enjoyed it, 
 but I'm really a soloer at heart. While it was fun to run out the beautiful world and kill things 
 and collect stuff, when I hit the level cap and got to a part of the game that I had some trouble 
 doing with just henchman, the game lost its fun. The ability to quickly get in and play without 
 looking for a group was one of the main advantage in my mind this game had over more persistent 
 MMORPGs.
  
  However, Nightfall really redressed this situation greatly. When I found out that now you had heroes 
 that you could customize yourself and buff up like your own character, I realized that it would 
 make some of the previously harder missions much easier to solo. In addition, the extra titles 
 introduced at an earlier level of the game makes reaching the level 20 cap not quite as game-ending 
 as it was before. Plus their was a new world to explore.
  
  In terms of negatives, the plot is a bit weak if you like that. The addition of heroes did allow 
 more characters into the overall story and allow a bit of character development, but it still feels 
 disjoint and I never really identified with any of the story elements on an emotional level. It's 
 still there just to maintain the pretenses of being a single player game.
  
  In summary, this game is almost exactly what I'm looking for in an online game experience. I want 
 challenge sometimes, I want to dominate sometimes and just kill things, I want to be able to collect 
 things, and I want to feel like I can do those things with only a half an hour. Personally, I believe 
 this installment really brought the game up a whole notch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kay262
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 19, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  I never was a big Guild Wars fan, i was impressed by the originality and the incredible artistry 
 but as a PvE player i always felt the game failed to live up to its potential. The PvE part was 
 too hectic, definitely impossible to do solo or without an experienced group.
  The second installment (Factions) didnt change much if anything but it added a lot of new content.
 
  Nightfall brings essential improvements that address almost all the issues this game had. Now 
 the game is doable solo, a lot of depth added by the hero system.
  This game will offer a very pleasant surprise to the players that quit the original Guild Wars 
 because of its excessive difficulty and lack of solo play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: forsaken_elf
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 11, 2007 6:57 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars in one of the best mmorpgs in my opinion. The game when it first came out had its glitches 
 and issues like any other game. Over time it has made great improvements. The game was solid 2 
 years ago and its still solid now, besides immerse game play this mmorpgs comes to you with no 
 monthly fee. Now Guild Wars: Nightfall is the third installment in the series. Like the other expansion 
 nightfall has brought two new professions; the paragon and the dervish. Paragons are the guardian 
 angels of Elona, humanity's champions against malefic threats. They rally the valiant with Shouts 
 and Chants, aiding heroes, henchmen, and other adventurers through inspiration and motivation. 
 A Paragon's best weapons rely on an insightful mind, a courageous spirit, and a charismatic voice. 
 Many Paragons also arm themselves with a spear and shield, striking from a distance as they shout 
 their battle cries. Through insight, they help others resist Hexes and Conditions, echoing their 
 commands across the field of battle (in fact, some Echo abilities renew themselves each time 
 a Chant or Shout ends) . When all hell breaks loose, a commanding Paragon shines as a beacon of 
 light, driving back the forces of darkness.
  
  Serving the gods as holy warriors, Dervishes stand confidently in the whirlwind of conflict. Martial 
 techniques perfected in the deserts of Elona allow a Dervish's scythe to lash out quickly at multiple 
 opponents, surrounding the holy warrior with a swath of destruction. Initiates often learn spells 
 of self-protection, prayers that rush a warrior into battle and invocations that empower attacks 
 with elemental fury. Masters of the profession can assume the form of a god, enacting divine will 
 with holy blessings. Keenly aware of the conditions of a fight, a Dervish can reap great benefits 
 by using multiple Enchantments. Wandering the savannahs and deserts of Elona, the faithful Dervish 
 chants prayers to the earth and wind... and the fury of the sandstorm answers in response.
  
  Now I havent played a lot with the dervish profession, but I have played many hours with the 
 paragon. I have become quite the fan of the paragon I mean they are long ranged warriors basically. 
 This class has a little less range then a spell caster with a wand. The primary spear attacks runs 
 on adrenaline like the warrior profession. This profession was made primarily to be a support character 
 to a group. There chants, echo and shouts bring all around benefits to groups. I was never a big 
 fan of playing the support role except with my monk and even he can hold his own if he has to. 
 I decided to take my paragon and make him into kill what you see kind of character. I chose to 
 make him a Paragon/Ranger using the rangers ability to apply poison and other condition. I was 
 happy to see that some ranger preparations can carry over to your spear throwing. Now this expansion 
 it set to be pretty fast paced for those of us used to the long run it takes you to reach level 
 20 in the first Guild Wars. In nightfall you start off on a small island setup to get you to level 
 20 before you even get to the larger portion to the island and other missions. A lot of the beginning 
 missions give you 2,000 experiences to complete. This is very different to the 100  500 experience 
 your first missions earn you in GW: Prophecies. The best addition to this game is the use of heroes. 
 There are heroes that you get to add to your group and unlock more as you go through the game. 
 Unlike their henchmen counterparts these heroes are customizable and controllable by you. You can 
 teach them skills and equip their skill set. There are buttons next to their name where you can 
 click on that will open up a floater window that will give you control over that hero. You can 
 set his status to attack (kill everything) , guard (kill what hits you) or pacify (avoid all fights) . 
 In that window it will show you there health, energy and skill set. You can then click on the skills 
 you want them to do. This is particularly important when you die and you want you healer to resurrect 
 you instead of fight. Its also helpful when you trying to kill a monster who heals itself you 
 can get all your heroes to work with you to combine the right skills.
  
  All and all this is the best game in the series. It brings a lot of great new features to the game, 
 new continent, new professions and new skills. I recommend that if you have played Guild Wars: 
 Prophecies and havent gotten this expansion to go to so. If you havent even played Guild Wars 
 yet then get on the band wagon and come see what your missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigE_mustang
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 8, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  This game just adds to the whole guild wars universe. I love it its the best so far i love the 
 heros, new weapons, new skills, new map, new campaign, its all just great addition to the other 
 two guild wars i already own. If you havn't played guild wars yet I would start with this one because 
 it has the most features. I havn't quite finished the campaign yet because im so caught up in PvP 
 as always but if your a person who loves a good story line i would start with guild wars prophecies 
 (guild wars) , and then factions, then this one. This one kinda sums up the mystery of the first 
 two. PvP in this game is incrediblly addictive. I have given up guild wars all together for the 
 past month because my grades are killing me. But once school is out im coming back to my guild 
 and getting ready for next ladder season! If your smart you should buy guild wars and do the same!!.... when 
 u buy it feel free to add me
  
  ign: Srak Scream
  
  just do it and buy this game.... better than WOW and NO MONTHLY FEES!
  
  Summary
  
  1. best 
 graphics of all of them
  2. u can play pvp or pve whichever kind of player you are
  3. the main reason you buy a game... to get your moneys worth and this game more than does that 
 it provides hundreds of hours of everything from killing monsters to killing players from other 
 counties in the hall of heros tournament..... (and then of course raising an army of minions from 
 their corpses) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkreaper
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars Nightfall is, in my opinion, the best MMORPG. Also, it does it's own thing, which makes 
 it unique.
  
  In my opinion this is the best of the 3, since it's not as mission based as prophecies and not 
 as short as factions. It's action-packed and i think it's suitable for anyone. The storyline has 
 many twists and turns some of which may suprise, also the game features a few quests where you 
 have a choice on what you do.
  
  Another great thing about Nightfall is Heroes, something for people that just want to play the 
 game, since you can choose there skills you can make a well-built team using them. Unfortunately 
 there aren't the brightest things in the world and a good human team is always great.
  
  So, if you really wanna save elona I say go for it!
  
  Did, I mention FREE online play!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chip_money
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Incredible, Astounding, Masterful.
  
  Most games don't even come close to the awesomeness that is Guild Wars Nightfall. I have been playing 
 this game for over 40 hours and I still am not bored with it. There has been no other game where 
 I have had anywhere near as much enjoyment then I have had with this.
  
  The game-play is a step up from the previous installments. The biggest and best change is the implementation 
 of the hero system. They are NPC's that are fully customizable and allow for a stronger party without 
 having to spend time in a town looking for people to help you. The recent large update also added 
 a lot of storage and allowed for a materials bank which allows for you to really be able to keep 
 a lot of items.
  
  The graphics are a step up from the previous game, but will not blow you away. The new surrounding 
 are much more varied and seems much more realistic then the others.
  
  The sound is not a huge part, but it allows you to indentify certain actions and always adds to 
 the environment (unless your little brother leaves mario music on while you are in a boss battle 
 -_- ) . I have played this game more then most of my other games combined and still get enjoyment 
 from it. There is always something more to do, whether you want to go to a new area or start a 
 new character. Replay is high. You can make 4 characters and each one you make is different and 
 will play differently. If you want a change then you can make a PvP only character that starts 
 out on the highest level.
  
  All in all I HIGHLY recommend everyone get this game. No monthly fees make it a favorable competition 
 to WoW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jakiscool
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Nightfall is an awesome game. It is highly addictive and fun, but it is similar to Guild wars Prophecies 
 and Guild wars Factions. There are many new enemies and green items that drop on a brand new map 
 that is pretty big. This game doesn't take as long to beat as Guildwars Prophecies. PvP (player 
 vs player) is basically the same but still very fun. The 2 new proffesions r also very fun to play. 
 Dervish: Does massive amounts of damage and has good self heals.
  Paragon: Good offensive, but is extremely helpfull in team support using shouts and echoes which 
 benefit the whole team.
  An expansion pack for A-net is coming out soon followed by Guildwars 2 which will greatly expand 
 to the guildwars world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhorahill
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 3, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  NightFall is the third standalone expansion for Guild Wars, offering a complete main plot, two 
 new professions and a plethora of new skills and game play options.
  
  Bear in mind that this review assumes you already have some knowledge of the GW universe and some 
 experience with previous games. If not, please read my GW review first.
  
  If you already own a GW game, you can use any of your previous characters to play the new campaign 
 or you can choose to try out one of the two new professions, the Dervish - a pious scythe wielding 
 warrior - or the Paragon - a lancer with leadership and commanding skills.
  
  The most important game play feature introduced by NightFall are the heroes. Heroes are special 
 henchmen that will join the player as the main campaign progresses - either in the main plot or 
 in side quests. Their main difference from standard henchmen is that their equipment and skills 
 can be customized. On the first campaign, henchmen did not come in many flavors - you had one or 
 two from each profession. With Factions, henchmen became more specialized and had specific builds. 
 In Nightfall, players get to customize their own henchmen. The introduction of heroes greatly improved 
 solo play as you no longer have to wait for a given type of monk or warrior to help you out on 
 a mission, you simply call your hero.
  
  Aside from deeper customization options, heroes can be controlled just as your main character. 
 While henchmen act based solely on attack / flee / run commands, heroes can be ordered to cast 
 specific spells, target different enemies and use their special skills when the player feel they're 
 needed. That's not to say you need to pay attention to everything your heroes do. If you leave 
 them on their own, they'll fight much like henchmen - with your given set of equipment and skills 
 - the main difference is that the player may choose to override the AI and use the most appropriate 
 skill.
  
  Customization of heroes can provide food for endless arguments often settled in the new PvP mode 
 - Hero Battles - where players battle each other with only the aid of their own heroes.
  
  Storywise, heroes are important NPC's in the campaign and will join your party for a short quest 
 or sometimes for the whole campaign. Although not every hero gets an important role in the main 
 quest, most of them shine in side quests centered around their background or goals.
  
  The main campaign in NightFall also has noteworthy differences from the previous games. For the 
 first time, you can unlock skills and titles specifically related to this campaign and only usable 
 on PvE. For instance, at a given point in the plot, you join a holy order of demon hunters and 
 can progress in their ranks by slaying hordes of hellish creatures. Progression in the order grants 
 in game bonuses to defeat demons and even an elite demon hunter skill. Another example of this 
 feature is the ability to ride Junnundu - giant worm like creatures - and to use their attack skills 
 while doing so.
  
  Just as its predecessors, the main plot from NightFall is interesting and will probably hook you 
 up if you liked previous games. It's bigger then Factions' and offer a bit more PvE content. The 
 graphics have improved slightly and the settings - based on middle eastern cultures - are nice 
 to behold.
  
  In general, it remains true to GW game play style with massive battles, impressive music, nice 
 cutscenes and puts you in the main role in the campaign, which probably is the great difference 
 between GW and most MMORPG's. A must for RPG fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funnyman39
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 2, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  its been 3 months since i bought this game and i've still got a hundred things to do. i am leader 
 of a guild, i have a level 20 necromancer and ranger and i've done the entire game. but none the 
 less there are always more things to do. tournaments, guild battles, upgrading armor and weapons 
 and exploring new areas. you may get tired of the game after a couple of months but if your a guild 
 wars fan then keep playing. this is my first guild wars game and i have to say it was killer. so 
 i have just one last thing to say....... WoW can go to hell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foreverzero56
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars Nightfall is the latest in the series of Guild Wars games brought to us by NcSoft and 
 ArenaNet....
  
  This time your adventures will take place in Elona, a vast land consisting of arid deserts, lush 
 swamps and dense forest. Nightfall, like its predecessor Factions, adds in two new playable classes. 
 First up is the Paragon, a mighty spear wielding fighter who uses a combination of vicious spear 
 related attacks and a series of shouts and chants designed to buff himself and the party with extra 
 power and damage lowering abilities. Secondly is the Dervish, a religious scythe wielding fighter 
 who can use the power of the gods themselves to deal damage to their enemies. Both classes are 
 a great addition, and add a very unique feel to the game... The story line progresses much like 
 the story line and gameplay did in the original installment of the game. You will start in a training 
 area, and will progress through until you have completed all the necessary story line quest. Once 
 you have completed them, you will be whisked off the island and sent to invade a coastal city of 
 one of your enemies. This mission is by far one of the best and most action packed of any missions 
 in the previous chapters and is a great doorway into the lengthy adventure that awaits you....
 
  
  Another great addition to this game is the ability to recruit Heroes. Heroes are computer controlled 
 characters much like the familiar henchmen, but unlike henchmen you can set everything your hero 
 has, from skills to weapons, to the newly added runes which will give armor the bonuses you chose. 
 The heroes are relatively smart, and their AI will act the role in which they are designed for. 
 As of now you can have 3 heroes within your party, meaning now you and one of your friends can 
 completely fill a party with the characters of your choosing and can set off to complete the adventures 
 together.... Several other additions that come to this chapter, although cosmetic, add a lot to 
 the series. Characters mouths will now move upon conversation in cut scenes, giving them a much 
 more realistic feeling. The voice acting and writing has also been redone, and adds a great deal 
 more depth to the once corny setup of the previous two games....
  
  Elona is highly detailed and is a great change from the bland looks of Factions. Your characters 
 will traverse this map, comparable to the size of the Tyria map, and will go from the lush jungles 
 and swamps, to the most arid wastelands to test your skills of survival....
  
  The game is lengthy, and will take you quite some time to finish it. Like previous chapters it 
 also adds in all new skills, weapons and armor. Making your storage feel very cramped and over 
 loaded. Nightfall is an amazing addition to the series that goes back to the roots of the first 
 Guild Wars.... Unlike Factions, it plays heavy into the pve side of Guild Wars, with no new pvp 
 introduced. If you are a fan of the original, or just looking for a great game with no monthly 
 fee, then Nightfall is a definite choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legolas2835
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is an awesome multi-player if you like those kind of games and it is way better than 
 that other game Runescape because if you want to be a member u got to pay for it, and in some ways 
 it is even better than World of Warcraft because once you buy the game there are no additional 
 fees, and the graphics are pretty darn good if I say so my self. And what is also cool is that 
 the game is multi-player so you can get all your buddies to buy it then you could make your own 
 team rather than the games which is much weaker than the games players. The best one I think out 
 of the three is Nightfall because the powers your hero can get are much better than the other two 
 Prophecies and Fractions. So if you get it enjoy and I know you will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godfather_XP
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Nightfall, the newest campaign in Guild Wars, promises the players more PvE oriented content, as 
 well as introduces Heroes.
  
  All and all my experience with Nightfall is good and bad. I do like the 2 new professions, new 
 skills, Egypt-Africa theme, the new endgame content (Via Mallyx) , &amp; Hero system (Sorta) . And 
 by sorta I mean I like the fact I can add a much more useful npc to my party to fill any need. 
 But I don't like how it's cutting out alot of the players.
  
  However what I don't like at about Nightfall is the early on Sunspear ranking stuff. Although anet 
 did adress that issue by adding other ways to get past that but whatever you do to progress through 
 the island your still limited by sunspear rank or level. I think that hinders the game from the 
 beggining and can drive away some newer players who wont tolerate being forced how to play. Most 
 may say Factions was the same way but at least you could bolt through that part in at least 2 days 
 if you were fast and knew what to do.
  
  But now that I'm done ranting, I did enjoy the game overall. Even though the beggining is a drag, 
 once you get over that hurdle you may find you like the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fxdm
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 13, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  I picked this game up quite a while ago, and wow, I'm just now reviewing it, but whatever, it's 
 still a review I guess. First off, let's start with some of the new features: Diverse missions, 
 harder bosses, the new hero system, and two new classes. The diverse missions were created to put 
 a new spin on the game, for example, in one mission you go around collecting tablets to move on 
 to the next station while in another you basically move through a town under siege with a large 
 amount of soldiers at your back. While these new kinds of missions are fun, they are nothing compared 
 to what the first GuildWars had. The harder bosses aren't that great of an add-on, but they do 
 put a newer challenge into the game, being that the only semi-hard boss in the first title was 
 the Lich King, and he was almost a joke. The new hero system is probably the best improvement so 
 far, and really adds a lot to the game. If you've read previous reviews, you probably know all 
 about the hero system and its function. It pretty much allows you to take more control over the 
 game and helps you avoid the use of the intelligent henchman. As for the two new classes, I'd say 
 you'd be better off sticking with one of the first six. While they do change the gameplay and PvP, 
 I've found that neither of the two are all too usefull for PvE groups.
  
  If you really enjoyed the last two titles in the GuildWars franchise, go ahead and pick this one 
 up, but if Factions threw you off, I'd suggest staying away. For a really unknown reason, I just 
 didn't find myself enjoying this one that much, and not nearly as much as the first GuildWars. 
 Personally I made a Dervish character (the scythe-wielder) , and only leveled him to 16. I quit 
 playing Nightfall around that time, and I'm not really sure why, Nightfall just isn't as fun as 
 the previous installments have been. Nightfall isn't a BAD game or anything, it just doesn't really 
 compare with its predecessors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kronblom71
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 10, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  I got the original GW back in april 05 and enjoyed it for about half a year. Total lost interest 
 after that, but decided to give this latest instalment an chance - mostly because the VERY LACK 
 of good RPG (the single-player kind) out there these days and the other reason is that you play 
 GW on-line for (ta taaa) free. So whats the news then. Well a new big world (Elona) to explore 
 and kill lots of mindless monsters in. Some new classes (Dervish and Paragon) and a new kind of 
 hero henchmens. Of course there are new missions and lots of side-quests as well. Level-cap is 
 still 20 though.
  
  It is more of the same hack and slash and endless quests that are very similar ( go somewhere rather 
 far away, kill some stuff and go back where you got the quest and get your xp and money) . Some 
 great news is the new kind of heroes you can recruit to fight beside you beside the ordinary henchmen. 
 They lvl up like you do and you can even upgrade their armor and weapons. They are in fact almost 
 better to hang with than real human players I say. A plus is the nice graphics (even with my 8 
 months old graphic-card) and fast loading times.
  And it is no monthly fee... why don&acute; t we see that with more online-RPG&acute; s? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seiyox
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 9, 2007 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars Nightfall brings a pretty good amount of content to the Guild Wars series. With the 
 addition of the new heroes (customizabale henchman that level with you) . The game has become even 
 more interesting. The heroes level with you and are quite an asset in missions and quests. It's 
 also a plus to have them around when you can't seem to find a party.
  
  In a lot of other RPG's out there a player is forced to find a group of human players to party 
 with in order to reach endgame, but in Guild Wars, you can either group randomly with players, 
 guild members, friends or just bring along a party of heroes/henchman to take on the task at hand. 
 Of all the MMO's i've player I would have to say that Guild Wars is among the top, and the factor 
 of the game being free to play definitely adds to that as well.
  
  I would say that if you are interested in an MMO with a story line and plenty of quests and other 
 things to keep you busy, as well as no monthly fee, then this game is definitely one for you to 
 pick up. The new armor upgrade system is a little different at first if you were used to just buying 
 armors with different stats already added to them, but overall it is much more useful being able 
 to change your stats at will instead of having to buy a whole new piece/set of armor.
  
  The graphics are also very attractive and the gameplay is smooth. Seasonal minigames are fun to 
 play, and events add a few more quests to enjoy as well as a final event with prizes. Guild Wars 
 can be played on practically any PC, it was made to reach a wide variety of gamers with low and 
 high end PC's.
  
  Overall, I think Anet did a great job on this RPG and am looking forward to the next addition to 
 Guild Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wisecrack57
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 2, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  This is the third addition to the Guild Wars series. Now, I own all three games; I have been part 
 of the series for almost two years now. I thoroughly enjoyed Prophecies and Factions, and was looking 
 forward to getting Nightfall for Christmas '06. So I got NF and I have to say I am a little disappointed 
 The thing that Nightfall has going for it is that the graphics, are top notch. The sound quality 
 is also great. Also, the game scenery changes a lot so you are not always stuck in the same area. 
 The biggest addition to the series that spawned from NF was Heroes. Heroes, not to get confused 
 with the TV show (which by the way is fantastic) , are henchmen or NPCs or CPUs or whatever you 
 want to call them, that you control. Now this is a blessing and a curse. The blessing is that you 
 can power them up the way you want, and tell them to attack, defend, or retreat. The curse 
 (that completely over powers the blessing) is that everyone uses them! It is almost impossible 
 to find a group! Almost everyone just uses Heroes for everything. Now, you wait for an hour to 
 get a group, because every other team is using Heroes. Along with the use of Heroes came Hero Battles 
 or HBs. It is when you take three Heroes (them most amount you can have at a time) and you battle 
 someone else that has three Heroes, but it is actually pretty boring. They added two new professions 
 to the series, the Dervish and the Paragon. The Dervish uses a scythe (the thing the grim reaper 
 uses) to slice and dice foes, they also rely on damage dealing enchantments. Paragons use spears 
 and also carry a shield, and rely on Shouts and other boosting skills. These new professions 
 are nice, but very confusing and hard to use. I am not (definit not) trying to turn you off from 
 the Guild Wars because I love this series, I think that the first two games are fantastic, and 
 everyone mildly interested in games should play them. Its just that I think that you should get 
 the first two, and then get this one. It is still a great game, just not as good as the first two. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightLike
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 6, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  FOCUS
  
  Gameplay
  Gameplay is great, couldn't ask for anything else... tuns of equitable weapons and armors threw 
 out the game. Some things though come faster then others in nightfall. The controls only take you 
 a hour tops to get down normally, plus if you don't go changing them around you can use the keyboard 
 index inside the game cover.
  
  Graphics
  Graphics are good still but still the same, so its kind of 50 50 sense they don't feel like bettering 
 there games. Still for most people sense it has been what millions of people have grown to know 
 and love it really doesn't effect the game.
  
  Sound
  I still have a problem with there sound like i did in the first one, i would say out of the three 
 factions had the sound tracks pin pointed the best of all 3. Even though its not as bad as the 
 first one its still to damn quiet for the most part. They need to keep in mind some people don't 
 like quiet all the time and we are to concentrated to use actually songs. So in my opinion they 
 need to fix this issue for the next one making availability's for those of us who want sound. But 
 more or less you'll be active enough in the game to not notice the lack of sound you'll be hearing. 
 And in some zones of the game it can be more effective then others. Still factions rocks the vote 
 on sound over the 3.
  
  Value
  If you like RPG's i guess sums it up. But to be honest guild wars has a lot to offer and nightfall 
 has an impressive story line. I actually thought the second time i played threw the islands was 
 even more amazing sense i knew what to do faster then the first time. Also the mouths actually 
 move in nightfall for the cut scenes.
  
  
  
  NOTES
  
  A little Advice
 
  I say grows on you because unless you have played previous guild wars and enjoyed them, you might 
 have slight doubts at first so a small bit of advice to have fun filled game play due to lack of 
 speech craft from player to player in the game just join the first guild you come across... Thats 
 what i did and it really made things hundreds of times less dull within only the first week.
  
  My Thoughts
  This one is my favorite overall out of factions and the first one because this 
 one is just right for newcomers and fast leveling compared to the first one, factions is much harder 
 to get use to for being new, it almost expects you to understand the game completely but nightfall 
 kind of drags you along the way, baby steps at a time which can also be semi annoying for the players 
 of the previous guild wars. Though you can use your old characters if you preferred.
  
  Facts
  Iv noticed a lot of people calling nightfall an expansion? Nightfall is not an expansion 
 though it sums it up, it in fact is a game of its own requiring neither factions nor the first 
 one to play. The only benefit of having the other two is using your created characters in all guild 
 wars and making it easier to stay in touch with people, guilds what not. The reason it isn't an 
 expansion is because expansion technically means extension and this is a game of its own though 
 can be compatible with both other guild wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxtrot89
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2007 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is an MMORPG that breaks the rules that most MMO's are based on such as paying monthly. 
 Thats right! If you are new to Guild Wars you might find this suprising... Guild Wars only requires 
 that you buy the game and have an internet connection.
  
  Nightfall adds:
  2 new classes
  2 new types of weapons
  100 new skills for new classes (20 elite)
  150 new 
 skills for other classes (40 elite)
  New PvP arenas New types of Guild Halls
  New guild Cape designs
  A new continent and campaign spanning 40 hrs
  The new Hero system (customizable 
 henchmen for those of u GW vets)
  New quests on other continents
  The mouths actually move in cutscenes now!
  And tons of other things!
  
  The graphics are 
 fine and have errors once in a while. You can get the most graphic quality with an ATI graphic 
 card. The music and sound is great with lots of ambience sounds as well.
  
  I will not explain the story as i havent beaten the game yet but i will say that all the quality 
 in this game will keep you hooked for hours on end!
  
  By foxtrot89 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringndaheat08
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 25, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying this: I started my venture into the MMO world with WoW. I played it 
 night and day for about 3 months straight. I was hooked. After about 3 months though, I think I 
 had a revelation. I wasn't satisfied with the fact that PvP battles were going to be more highly 
 based on your armor rather than your knowledge of the character's skillset. I wasn't thrilled with 
 the countless hours that were required to even have a chance to fight an end boss, hoping that 
 something for your class would drop, and then hoping that there wasn't another person in your raid 
 that would have first dibs.
  
  After WoW, I played a few other MMOs for a month or so; City of Heroes, Everquest 2, and then I 
 tried GW: Prophecies. I think at this point, I was frustrated in general with MMOs altogether that 
 I didn't really give GW: Prophecies a real chance. Yes I enjoyed it, but my thoughts of WoW seemed 
 to overshadow the enjoyment. I stopped playing MMOs for about 12 months, and just recently got 
 back into the scene, started up Prophecies again.
  
  I was immediately re-captivated by everything Prophecies has to offer. The environment is truly 
 beautiful to just look at. The storyline is enjoyable. I have a few minor gripes with the gameplay 
 (no jumping... no running off cliffs) , but aside from those few minor gripes, it is wonderful.
 
  
  Beyond that, the true enjoyment of the game is the opposite of what turned me away from WoW. Your 
 progression through the game, and into PvP isn't based entirely on how many raids you've gone through 
 and how many nice sets you've completed. You're limited to 8 skills to use. Knowledge of your class, 
 and how to counter-attack a class you're fighting reigns supreme. Sure this is true with every 
 game to an extent, but I believe that the Guild Wars series truly takes this to the next level.
 
  
  Guild Wars: Nightfall is a wonderful continuation of the campaign. I'm already completely immersed 
 in the new story. The gameplay is not only the same, but there have been improvements that were 
 made for Nightfall that have been applied retroactively to the previous releases as well. The heroes 
 really feel like customizable henchmen, which I enjoy. The graphics and scenery is wonderful as 
 usual, and the sound is perfect. I think my interpretation of great sound for a videogame is when 
 you just don't notice it -- Not because it's not worth noticing, but because it just seems to melt 
 seamlessly into the actual gameplay that you treat it all as one.
  
  All that being said, it would be almost rhetorical to ask if this game is for everyone. Obviously 
 it's not, and it's not your typical MMO either. Obviously it's more of a diablo-style game, where 
 the towns are the common places, and everything beyond that is instanced. It doesn't do it for 
 everyone, but for me, it's not only great, it's ideal. To me, this is the epitome of what an MMO 
 should be. Hats off to you Guild Wars, another wonderful addition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjaofthief
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 20, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  The game Guild Wars Nighfall is a very good game!!! In the game begining of the game you choose 
 what profession do you want to be. You can choose to be the following professions:
  Assassin
  Dervish
  Elementalist
  Mesmer
  Monk Ranger
  Worrior
  Necromancer
  Riualist
 
  Paragon
  
  In the game you are doing quests with your heroes or party members.
  The quests are long, good 
 and can keep you for many hours of playing.
  One of the things that doing this game so spacial is that, that thing is that in lvl 5 you can 
 choose your secondery profession.
  
  For help you can ask me or see http://www. guildwars. com. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Voredor
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 16, 2007 2:23 am PT
Review:  i have played the past few games with prophecies it lacked some important stuff especially the 
 moves and characters, but the disappointment was factions which made me feel bored due to the places 
 which look the same and stupid enemies which look like zombies distint relatives but in a grinder 
 and adding some more. ehat i liked most about nightfall (other than the story) the beautiful scenery 
 and places although some creatures were a bit lame it is way better than factions. and there is 
 also a feature to travel to the older island's (cantha, tyra) which adds like another 100 hours 
 to play with making it take a longer time to play with. although sometimes you get bored playing 
 alone (if you have no one playing with you) the best thing about GUILWARS is the PVP gameplay and 
 you can easily enter a battle in 30 seconds instead of the pain of waiting inline till its your 
 turn. I think that this game is worth buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 483paul
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 12, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  I've played each Guild Wars game. I've seen them rehash the same thing in a new way and still pull 
 it off. Night Fall is the 3rd expansion to the series. They have added a new feature called Heroes. 
 These are henchmen that you can controll. You build their skill setup, you give them weapons, and 
 you can even select where for them to move and attack. This is a very nice feature but comes with 
 a flaw. No one wants to play as a team now. You are your own team and don't really need to group 
 up with people anymore. The missions are for the most part simple and easy to beat on the first 
 try.
  
  They have added some new armor types and insignia's. Insignia's work the same way runes work with 
 your armor. Insignia's are what type of armor you want. Instead of buying Pyrromancer armor for 
 you Elementalist you buy the armor you want and buy a pyromancer Insignia to place into it. I like 
 this feature alot!
  
  They have added new weapons. But nothing we haven't seen before. This is one area i wish they would 
 improve on. They keep rehashing the same mods of a weapon with a new (skin) look.
  
  This game is a must have for gw fans. I like it more than factions but nothing can beat prophecies. 
 IMO the original is the best one. I wonder when they are going to comepletely rebuild the game 
 from ground up. With new game engine and graphics engine. The game looks good but is starting to 
 feel somewhat dated when compared to Hell Gate London screens. With 3 gw's games out the world 
 is a bit empty. You have to go to main towns to trade. Which isn't a big deal. But i wish there 
 was a better way to sell and trade than having to go to each big town in each expansion to buy/sell 
 your items.
  
  This expansion is like the others. If you've played one game you've pretty much played them all. 
 However if you buy the expansions you have a more variety to weapons, armor, and most important 
 skills. Some skills can only be obtained in a certain gw's expansion. This alone makes it worth 
 it to buy each game. I like Night Fall and would advise any fan to go buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doom_x107
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:00 am PT
Review:  this is the most amazing computer game evr. the map is giant with hundreds of different enemies 
 to fight and is just great.
  
  graphics:
  i never thought graphics for this game would be so good. they are very detailed with a few glitches, 
 usually in cut scenes. also during cutscenes the characters seem to quickly fade in wich isnt to 
 good but other wise it is great graphics!
  
  sound:
  the sound is great aswell never glitching unless the PC freezes or glitches usually only when you 
 have bad connection otherwise it is great. I personally like most of the vabbian music the most.
 
  
  tilt:
  i just love this game i play it all the time whenever i can i just love it.
  
  the big paragraph: (couldnt find another name)
  in the big paragraph i just put all the good 
 things about the game in it.
  first the map is huge! it is aprox. 5-8 times the size of runescape's just as well you can run 
 as long as you like. another thing in the map to use is map-travel it lets you go to any outpost 
 or city (places where merchants and players are) on the map. there are also hundreds of different 
 types of monster to battle. from things a quarter of your size to thing 20 times as big as you! 
 my favourite monster is the rock beetle. (cant be bothered to tell you why) \
  the game will take up a signifigant amount of your life. it will take weeks to complete the game. 
 months for 100%.
  another good thing is being able to help other real life character in missions or quests wich is 
 a good way to get new friends.
  
  so that is my review by doom_x107 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AbiusX
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 9, 2007 2:00 am PT
Review:  Game consists of addictive brilliant views and places. The idea of filling the party with BOTs 
 (Henchmen) is cute, but at some point makes it a single player game instead of a MMO! Character 
 creation, Storyline and anything else is good, thats why ArenaNet has reached 2million users. Of 
 course the price is important xD
  
  Now what makes this game suck:
  Its not built for gamers, Who are willing to spend all their time playing this. It is not that 
 long, but ENOUGH and GOOD for someone wishing to enjoy.
  
  There is a system that creates a different map for each party doing every quest. It makes you feel 
 all alone, cuz after leaving any city you are all alone with your party and cant have fun with 
 other people.
  
  There is a system that seperates areas, means you walk into something dazzling, and loading, and 
 new area.
  
  THE MOST BORING thing is, You can only use 8 spells on each mission! This is sooo boring cuz after 
 finding a suitable 8 set, you would experience no more spells. Imagine that half of these 8 spells 
 are auras, and enchantments, so you only would have 4 spells to hit the enemy! This is the worst 
 thing for a mage player :D I'm so tired of this, Hope NCSoft fixes this or i'll quit playing. The 
 next thing is character movement, it isnt that good, You cant fly, or even jump! You are set to 
 walk on the specified land, no more no less! But overally, I recommend this game to all MMORPG 
 lovers, It is worth much more the price!
  
  There is much fun in the game, I still love it and enjoy playing it much more than anything else...
 
  
  Good Luck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talus057
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 8, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Let me begin by saying I am a PvP enthusiast. I don't much care for the social crowds that include 
 themselves with MMORPGs so my opinions don't center around any of that at all.
  
  Guild Wars is a game with innocent intentions. Like anything else in the world that is innocent 
 it is probably only innocent in the eyes of the beholder. This game fails to deliver on many of 
 the aspects that draw in most crowds from other PvP games.
  
  I've played Guild Wars since Prophecies so I can speak with some experience of the elitism surrounding 
 the Guilds themselves. I truly hope you don't have the intention of climbing the PvP ladders when 
 you buy this game because I'm going to be the first one to burst your bubble: It's never going 
 to happen. That is unless you have an account with Ebay so you can purchase a spot on a top guild 
 like a select few guilds are, and/or were, famous for.
  
  The hierarchy of the individual players is worse off than the hierarchy of the guilds themselves. 
 The unlocked titles do very little to portray the skill of the character since many of the builds 
 dubbed Flavor of the Month are little more than one person randomly mashing the buttons 1 - 8 on 
 their keyboard. While some may point out that only noobs would randomly mash the buttons on their 
 keyboard I would retort with a question: Where are these people you are describing? It certainly 
 isn't those high rank who did little more than use builds made by Anet that require no skill to 
 use and were intentionally put there to introduce PvP to the social crowd of MMORPGs who were too 
 dominated by the PK to participate otherwise.
  
  Like many others have said this also isn't a game you just install and start PvPing. For those 
 of us with a job, a family, and other hobbies it will take months of 2 - 3 hour nights before you 
 can even begin to be competitive. What people are talking about when they say this is faction . 
 You need faction to unlock skills. 1000 faction for normal skills and 3000 for elite skills. You 
 also need 1000 for minor runes, 1500 for major runes and 2000 for superior runes. You will need 
 to unlock each and every class and be ready at a moments notice to use each and every one of those 
 classes to their maximum efficiency if you want to stand any chance at all of joining a decent 
 guild. Even then you can only pray that everyone is on the same level as you are. If your hopes 
 are high I hope they don't fall too hard.
  
  The skills themselves are commonly unbalanced. To hope that Anet will balance it out is a utopian 
 pipe-dream. Many things are balanced and unbalanced as they see fit. Many people see things differently 
 and certain builds are deemed too casual or too powerful. Sometimes Anet decides to nerf them and 
 sometimes they decide to let it continue for months and months until people stop buying their games. 
 It all comes down to the almighty dollar. Doesn't it always? But thats another conversation for 
 another time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrngod
Rating: 3.3
Date: Feb 7, 2007 12:06 am PT
Review:  Let's just get my opinion of this game out of the way so you can choose to skip the rest: This 
 game is total garbage.
  
  Now let me explain why.
  
  I was given this game for Christmas by my brother, who is quite hooked on the PVP aspects of the 
 game. I have been playing online games with him for at least 14 years or so, going all the way 
 back to MUD's. We recently both quite playing WoW around the beginning of November after hitting 
 the wall and getting becoming entirely bored with every aspect of it. Having said that, I have 
 quite high expectations for games when it comes to a PVP experience.
  
  Let's start with the major let downs of this game, and work our way down to the nit picky stuff.
 
  
  First off, the PVP in this game is just lame. Supposedly you can create a PVP only character that 
 is already level 20 (the max level) and has some decent gear. Theoretically this means you can 
 start PVPing and have fun within minutes of installing the game. This is a lie. The skills that 
 you start off with are absolute garbage. The result is that you have to play a few hundred rounds 
 of PVP matches before you can start to aquire new skills that might actually be worth anything. 
 Yay, 20 hours of PVPing before the fun begins! Exactly what I wanted, more grinding. This reminds 
 me an awful lot of Battlefield 2 where you had to unlock kits before you stood even a remote chance 
 of being competitive. Good idea in theory.... not really. It's just a stupid idea. Why can't everyong 
 just be on the same level from the get go? Is that so much to ask?
  
  The PVP maps are really lame. The game would be the EXACT same in the PVP arenas if every map was 
 simply a circle... or a square... or hell a triangle. The maps play absolutely NO part in the PVP 
 arenas. PVP consists of both teams running wildly into each other and spamming skills. It's not 
 only hard to tell what exactly is going on, but it comes down to which side was lucky enough to 
 have their monk spam heal the same guy that is getting the most damage. More often then not this 
 is not the case and your healer ends up looking the wrong direction for 2 seconds and you loose 
 someone.... or he they get single targetted into Respawnville.
  
  The skills themselves are pretty lame as it is. Sure you get a ton to pick from for each class, 
 and the whole idea of only being able to take 8 in to battle with you is a really really great 
 idea. Too bad the skills are just stupid. The skills are too complicated, and way too specific 
 to be of any use. Out of the big pool of skills that you are given, the vact majority of them are 
 only useful about 5% of the time. So why bother even putting them out on your bar if the chances 
 of using them are so low? Some people might call this a deep skill set, when in reality it just 
 feels cheap and pointless.
  
  I played this game for about 6 weeks and never ran across a single skill that felt like it packed 
 any punch. The mage type class in this game sure does NOT feel like a nuker, but they definitely 
 feel like paper. Nothing is less satisfying then hitting someone with your big spell only to watch 
 thier health bar drop by 10% and fill right back up while you are winding up your next spell. For 
 some reason the most powerful class in this game is the Monk (think priests) class. If you don't 
 get at least one person in your group with Monk as the primary or secondary class... you are completely 
 screwed.
  
  The single player campaign is a complete joke. At least you get to have a few NPC's along with 
 you in your group. The plus side to this is that you will get a healer in the group, so you are 
 pretty much guaranteed to survive for a long time. The down side is that they do all the work for 
 you and you can literally just walk around and let them do all the dirty work.
  
  The quests are ALL the exact same, and the environments are painfully repetitious. I would say 
 that about 95% of the quests are painfully easy, while the remaining 5% are either impossible, 
 or almost impossible to complete. Why can one quest require that all you do is run to a spot on 
 the map, kill 3 giant insects and you get 1500 exp, but the next quest requires you to kill 6 waves 
 of about 20 critters each and you get 2000 exp for it? Sounds stupid right? It is.
  
  Every area looks/feels the exact same. Considering the fact that you end up grinding your way through 
 the same zones up to 15 times or so for different quests, this gets old really fast. The monsters 
 you fight are also quite boring. There are maybe about 6 different variations on beasts to kill 
 (not counting the random boss that you get to kill, which drop absolutely NO loot what-so-ever) . 
 Killing turns into a click-to-kill-it marathon, which last time I checked is BORING. You can play 
 through the ENTIRE single player campaign without ever needing to use ANY skills. Just click on 
 the monster until it dies, then move to the next one. Good times.
  
  And quess what your reward for completing the campaign is? That's right.... skills! Wahoo. The worse 
 part about this is that there is absolutely nothing unique for completing the campaign. Everything 
 you get through the campaign can be acquired through the PVP arenas as well. So either way you 
 look at it you have to grind a whole bunch just to get to a competitive level in the PVP arenas. 
 This just really irks me. This game was SPECIFICALLY pitched as being instantly accessable . Clear 
 proof of this is the ability to instantly create a level 20 PVP only character. Yet no matter hot 
 it goes, you are REQUIRED to grind an awful lot before ever even coming close to enjoying what 
 the PVP arenas have to offer.
  
  The gear/itemization system is also lacking a LOT. Again, you get to grind a whole lot just to 
 get any decent gear. You can't actually buy any decent gear, but have to wait for it to drop off 
 farmable monsters in the single player areas. There was also a decision to put in a very convaluted 
 and rediculous item upgrading system into the game. This system lets you add upgrades to weapons 
 and armor, but if you want to remove the upgrade and put it on something else, you need to buy 
 a rather expensive advanced salvage kit that has a change of breaking the item, thus loosing it 
 forever. Wow... so user friendly! So now I have to grind to get the upgrades, weapons, armor, and 
 skills, but now I have to grind just to KEEP what I already ground (yes ground) for! Yippee! I 
 love grinding!
  
  And did I mention that there is a total of maybe 3 different looking (graphics wise) sets of armor 
 for each class? That's right! You get to look EXACTLY like 1 out of every 3 other warriors in the 
 game! (if you made a warrior that is) .
  
  This game has been so over-designed that it actually feels really broken.
  
  Now, let me get 
 picky.
  
  The interface is really sluggish. I have a pretty beefy computer and graphics card, but the interface 
 is plain clunky. The best part about it is how quickly it loads between zones (we are talking seconds 
 to get from one city to another) but too bad you have to use this interface while actually playing 
 the game. Maybe I have just been too spoiled by WoW's excellent interface....
  
  The wierdest part about the game is how freakin fast it is. This feels like the Unreal tournament 
 of MMO's. You can literally go from a full health bar to dead in a few seconds. Which is really 
 really bizaar considering how weak the skills you are given are (read above for that complaint) . 
 One thing that totally confused me was watching my health bar during the single player campaign. 
 It would quite literally empty and fill up 4-5 times every 10 seconds or so. What the hell? This 
 easily suggests the outcome of having a healer go down first....
  
  Did I mention that the world map in this game is totally pointless? Sure the single player campaign 
 areas benefit from this a bit, but it just feels like they faked it. The PVP areas in the game 
 actually are laid out on a map backdrop, when in reality all that was needed was an icon that says 
 PVP Arena .
  
  The district system is not only confusing, but not at all explained. The game makes NO attempt 
 to provide any information about anything. Sure you get the opening tutorial that lasts about 5 
 minutes (I hate long tutorials) but a help menu, or hell even Tooltips would have been a major 
 improvement.
  
  The only major positive thing I can say about this game is that there is no monthly fee. But, if 
 you want to keep up with the jones' you have to buy all 3 versions of the game for 50$ each. NCsoft 
 has stated that they plan on releasing a new version every 6 months. Lets see how my math skills 
 area... that's... $8.33 a month. Hrm.. that sounds an awful lot like a monthly fee. And what exactly 
 is the difference between these versions? Well, they strip out 2 classes, and substituite in two 
 new classes. Maybe a little extra single player campaign action and a few maps, but ultimately 
 nothing even remotely worth the extra $50.
  
  At least the graphics are pretty good. The spell affects are actually pretty well done, but not 
 to the point where you can recognize a spell affect and know what it is. That spell affect could 
 have been 1 of 10 different spells being cast. Sure would be nice if I could see it, and get a 
 clue as to how to react.
  
  The sound affects in the game are nothing special. The spell affects are repeated quite a lot and 
 have no variation between classes. The music is forgettable, but at least has a mood that seems 
 to fit the situation.
  
  I could go on and on and on about how much this game sucks, in fact I already have. But it's late. 
 I'm tired. I'm pissed this game didn't work out because I really wanted it to. And my girlfriend 
 is giving me the look that can only mean good things....
  
  Long story short? If you want a great PVP experience, stear clear. This one is a stinker.
  
 
  And sorry for all the spelling errors. It's late and I just don't care. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackph0en1x
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 6, 2007 6:19 am PT
Review:  Nice game, good storyline and better graphics than in the last games (they finally got the lips 
 to move in the cinematics, and even some face expressions) . Storyline is good, not as messy as 
 in the fist Guild wars game (Guild Wars Prophecies) .
  I wouldn't still prefer this game for first time players, as the beginning of the game is long, 
 and it takes quite long to even get to level 10. To get further in the game requires you to gain 
 Sunspear ranks, which are obtained by killing certain types of monsters and completing quests. 
 The sunspear ranks take a while to gain though, which makes the game boring as you would'nt want 
 to farm for sunspear points, you want to get further in the storyline.
  
  The controls are quite easy, and the game window isn't messy. Landscapes are nice, and the monsters 
 are the Sunspears enemies, Kournans, lead by an evil (maybe a little crazy) Kournan called Varesh 
 Ossa. Varesh wants to control whole Elona with the help of an god, Abaddon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frag_grenade
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 4, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  First off not everyone will like the fighting system, you click on the enemy you want to attack 
 and it attacks them but you can learn special attacks that you click a little bar on the bottom 
 of the screen to perform.
  
  Their is tons of land that you can explore and plenty of monsters to fight. One very cool thing 
 is you can get together a party of npc's and actual players and go complete quests together. You 
 can also join guilds with other players.
  
  I was not impressed with the graphics or sound but they where good enough to receive an 8 especially 
 with my system. This a great game and when you add the fact that the multi-player is free it makes 
 it all the more great. This is the first guild wars game I have played and I will definitely get 
 guild wars 1 and guild wars factions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bensladden
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 4, 2007 4:36 am PT
Review:  NCsoft and Areananet have made many guildwars games The first one guild wars Prophecies was i bit 
 disapointing i think but the next guildwars game, Guildwars factions was great, i thout i would 
 never play a better PC game but i was wrong when guildwars Nightfall came out i coudnt stop playing 
 it.
  Guildwars Nightfall has a very differnt setting then the other games, it is set in Egypt, you are 
 a sunspear and gain differnt sunspear ranks first you get Sunspear master sarjent then you get 
 Sunspear second spear then sunspear first spear then sunspear commander and so on. In GW (guildwars) 
 your're enmemys are the corsairs, harpys, skall, ilboga, strom seeds, turmites... to many enmeys 
 to say!!! The games PvP is not as good as factions because in factions You can AB AW JQ and so 
 on. But still quite good PvP the graphics are pretty much the same as the other GW games the sond 
 track well i dont like that kind of music but you cant vely have Hard metel rock or rap for a game 
 like this. gameplay brilent like always and all and all i think this game sould be a 9.7.
  thank you for reading my review :P.
  (this game is a T rated game in the US and in the UK its 
 a 12+ and can get this game for around $40 or &pound;32) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxico81
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jan 25, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  The PvE part is great. Nice storyline, cool monsters and a large variety of settings. There's enough 
 to do and much to explore. In short, it gives you what you should expect from a rpg.
  
  However, I'm negative about this game for a single reason. It's not an MMO anymore. This is largely 
 the result of hero's. It's possible to complete the campain with hero's and henchies in about 4 
 days.
  Where are the good old days where you could do even the smallest quests with other players? IMO 
 this is a great disappointment.
  
  Graphics: I think they're still very good lookin. After all, this is an MMO where the priority 
 should be that it runs smooth.
  
  Sound: Effects are good and crunchy, the music however is boring as hell. You'll probably put your 
 own backgroundmusic instead.
  
  Value: Depends on what you want to do it can be either longlasting or very shortlasting. If you 
 like farming and doing the masterlevelquests you'll have a blast. Same goes for GvG. As most GW-players 
 know, heroes ascent has been put aside by many after the change to 6v6, making it a dull and boring 
 place to say the least. Those who aren't into farming and GvG will be bored soon.
  
  Tilt: It was very rewarding in the first week, after that I got bored.
  
  Gameplay. I saved 
 this to the end. The gameplay in itself is very good. Friendly UI which can be customized. Using 
 skills and walking around is easy and feels comfortable. However, I rated the gameplay at 6 because 
 of the decreasing MMO-feeling.
  
  So in short, it all depends what you are/were doing in guild wars if you're going to like this 
 or not. In my case, being a traditional 8v8 heroes ascent player, it was very disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyoob
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 24, 2007 3:50 pm PT
Review:  GW Nightfall gives the player a experience that is very well presented in a beautiful, immersive 
 world with tons of imaginative and enthralling environments and enemies. It builds on GW's presentation 
 by making the world prettier, more effective, and more open-ended than before. If one were to start 
 with any GW game, I would have to recommend this one. It is simply a fantastic roleplaying game 
 that puts WoW to shame (not that hard to do considering that WoW is pretty shameful anyway) . This 
 is a game that will make all of the GW nonbeleivers think again. This game is marvelous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spy_hellscream
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 21, 2007 3:12 pm PT
Review:  If the expansion factions wasn't enough to make this series even better, now there is nightfall, 
 at first I thought well it'll just be another add on basically the same things that all expansions 
 add to a game.... boy was I wrong, instead of having just the regular npcs as your companions now 
 you can have your own customized heros on your team? thats awsome, you can customize their weapons/armor, 
 skills, classes and even level them up like a normal character... nightfall has added a great new 
 storyline and some really nice features. If you have played any of the other guild wars, this is 
 a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tusa04
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 18, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Just bought the collector's edition of the game for about $40 coz they had a offer for christmas 
 and new year. And i must say GW Nightfall amazed me as Propechies did, as at first i enjoyed Gw 
 Prophecies allooooooooot and thought and still do think that it pawnssss WOW and WOW: BC anytime. 
 Moving on, the game still has the same feel but surely not the same crapy campaign as Factions 
 as it sucked and i regreted buying it. Also, has a new good storyline and organized campaign, better 
 ai in a way, the new feature of choosing ur own hero for urself amazd me alot, and the new stunning 
 and amazing visuals still own and pawn any other MMROG visuals mostly WOW ;) . In short i enjoyed 
 Nightfall and still am, as its a new addition the succesful Guild Wars line but surely a make-up 
 for Factions. I would reccomend u buying it over any MMROG, espeacially WOW and WOW: BC.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shocker-x-
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 18, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Out there are many MMO games..... the first two that come in mind is World of Warcraft and Guild 
 wars.
  
  Guild wars is an MMORPG, though many refuse to call it that... and there are reasons why it isint 
 an MMORPG, but the greatest aspect of the game is the MMO aspect!
  
  Guild wars is great because of the advance PvP features, GW features an inmence way to differ yourself 
 from others, and join a guild that has epic wars between eachother guilds,
  
  The first GW was an amazing experience for the MMO genre and though WoW still dominates the field 
 (well won too) GW still has the advantage of being a more combat oriented and Largely scaled infronts.
 
  
  Factions: the first standalone expansion deliverd new classes and skills and more features to the 
 already inmense game
  
  Nightfall, on the other hand, brings an all new Continent, new profesions and more items and monsters, 
 as well with a small but noticible graphic update.
  
  Graphicly GW is a great looking game, the enviroment is well made, and the shining and glows of 
 the bloom effect, it is all top notch, though the character modles seem a little iffy on the textures, 
 its still a nice sight.
  Now compared to WoW, they both go neck to neck, but wow has the overall... um... WOW... effect. but 
 dont let that discourage you! GW is still a great looking game, the sound in the game is really... 
 just OK not really nothing great, the Shaders and particles of the game can be a bit more complex 
 than WoW's particles, yet they arnt as well texturized.
  Oh ya, and the fact that the game is FREE to play online.... makes it all worth while
  
  Overall 
 GW Nightfall is a GREAT game, it isint the best experience in the MMO world but its a damn good 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lageste
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 9, 2007 5:54 pm PT
Review:  This is a solid well rounded skill based mmo, complex enough to be challenging but not offputting, 
 The graphics are beautiful and make the game very immersive, although i am dissapointed with the 
 lack of npc voice which is why i scored the sound down, it is not a real factor in your enjoyment 
 of the game.
  
  It seems to me that this is the cinderella mmorpg as it kicks the butt of its ugly sister in every 
 department! There is no level chase nor farming!
  pvp relys on the skills and talents of the player rather than level+weapon. SKILL AND THOUGHT REQUIRED.
 
  
  For me this is the game that makes me glad i'm a gamer, there are of course things i would like 
 to see done differently, but hey thats every game i play! I'm dissapointed i couldn't give it a 
 10 but i try to review honestly. Short and sweet review but the best games speak for themselves, 
 pick this one up, its like an orchestra on its best day, AND THERES NO SUBSCRIP-OFF. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wilmc
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 8, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  I have mixed reactions about this game. On one hand, PvE has been drastically improved. PvP (Player 
 vs. Player) on other... lacking. PvE: New Heroes, 20 Missions, New skills to capture, New Twists, 
 Better Story, and 2 new professions. PvP: 1 new way to PvP... Hero Battles. As the title suggests 
 Hero Battles is where you bring in 3 of your Heroes and fight another player with 3 of his heroes. 
 The fights are decent length and the action between the two is intense, but I found myself micromanaging 
 the heroes more than I was working on my character. Heroes are the main attraction in this game 
 aside from the two new professions. They are computer A. I. which you basically control. This creates 
 problems as the community in this game isn't very nice at times and apparently most prefere to 
 work alone. So I congratulate Arena-net and their ability to once and for all make groups even 
 harder to find. I find it takes almost twice as long to find a group in PvE as Heroes are used 
 quite a bit more. The missions and quests (thank god!) are imaginitive all the way until the end. 
 Wurms or Junundu (sp) you ride allow innovation in the game, but again another complaint. Wurm 
 riding gets very very dull. I would like to say Heroes and Creative Missions are great in this 
 game. And to a certain extent they do. Just not past my expecations. I'm merely satisfied with 
 this game. The Graphics haven't changed much. Neither has the sound. Swords sound like Swords and 
 Spells sound like Spells. Music by Jeremy Soule at first is epic, but it seems like he's lost inspiration 
 throughout the middle of it. Music changes now when you are fighting which is a nice little touch 
 and is good enough for me to change the score of sound from disasterously low to merely decent. 
 Overall its a great game worth picking up with many little changes. Must pick for a Guild Wars 
 fan just for the the new skills, Access to heroes, 2 new professions and new storyline (if your 
 a lore fanatic) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SasukevsLuffy
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  I loved both previous games, and i love this one too. The game adds two more innovative proffesions, 
 the scythe-wielding Dervish and the spear-throwing Paragon. These two on top of the 6 original 
 proffesions makes a wide array of choices at the beginning. The game thrusts you into a world with 
 african themes. You start off when Istan, the continent you are on, is on the brink of an all-out 
 war. You make your way through levels, defeating corsair baddies, to find there is a bigger, greater 
 threat.
  With a whole new continent, new henchmen, new characters, enemies, weapons and armor, and the addition 
 of a whole new way to fight the darkness and hold off nightfall, the heroes, make a great addition 
 to the game.
  The hero system allows you to have 3 additional henchmen to do your bidding throughout the game. 
 You can give them orders, make them cast spells, and heal ally's, the game doesnt feel the same 
 anymore. It feels better.
  The story is not as well made as the previous two, but still rocks.
  This game is a must buy 
 for all Guild Wars fans, and is the connection to the next games to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ariketh
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 4, 2007 1:53 am PT
Review:  It seems like you either love it or hate it when it comes to Guild Wars. While Factions seemed 
 to stray from the formula, not living up to the expectations of most, and only just before the 
 Nightfall released become properly balanced, Night Fall seems to be a great expansion and follow 
 up to Guild Wars. The two unique Guild Wars classes are great additions to the series and are easy 
 to fall in love with.
  
  The Dervish are beefy warriors who do AoE (Area of Effect) damage. They 're a cross between the 
 Warriors and the Elementalist, using the elements in spells and skills, but being on the front 
 lines of battle attacking the enemies with there weapon of choice, the scythe. They have more hit 
 points and mana than warriors, but less armor. They focus a large amount on enchantments, most 
 of which deal damage when they are cast.
  
  The Paragon, the second unique class in Nightfall, is a ranged support character. They focus on 
 buffing and attacking. While they have a lot of mana, they have low mana regeneration, meaning 
 that later in the battle they will need to use adrenaline.
  
  Overall, I think that Nightfall is a great addition to the series, and I recommend it to anyone 
 who likes strategy in there game and anyone who does not want to let a game consume there life. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doodlez_87
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 2, 2007 3:38 pm PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong i loved the original however Anet has shot itself in the foot with their 6 month 
 expansions. Rather than taking their time to deliver good and solid expansions with interesting 
 new features they come up with uninsipring new lands and a couple of classes.
  
  PvP yet again saves the day and it is still fun and exciting when your in a good group.
  
  
 Anet should now focus on making pve more exciting i mean come on rushing people through to level 
 20? One reason i enjoyed the original was travelling along with the story, learning new skills 
 and earning new armor weapons. Now its just pointless seeing as it takes no effort to get armor 
 and you get given a green at the end for killing a the most boring final boss in any game.
  
  Heroes- a welcome idea apart from a couple reasons-
  1. There has to be more complex commands 
 rather than follow, attack, stay
  2. Before the update proph and factions characters having to take through lvl2-12 heroes into 20+ 
 areas.
  
  Some coop missions are far from fun, listen up Anet theres a difference to challenging difficulty 
 and pointlessly hard. plus its even harder for EU players seeing as the only way you can get into 
 good groups is by going into a district where you cant understand eachother and having your well 
 thought plan going to waste due to that insane axe wielding frenchman.
  
  Greens at the end WHY? You got squat at the end of the original but even that felt more well deserved 
 because of the progression you had made, now its just a cheap prize for a rushed character.
  
  Everything that made your characters individuals has been lost, 15k armor has little effect 
 and at the end your still not playing at your best unlike the original.
  
  Come on guys, the pvp can only sell this game for so long, soon the boring campaigns will choke 
 this title to death and in its last desperate days have more and more double green drop/ faction 
 events *shudder* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: endtype
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 31, 2006 7:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is similar to the last since it's in a series of course. However this game adds many 
 new functions to armor and weapons that make the game a little easier on your bank. The new classes 
 are an amazing addition to the six core proffesions and 2 Factions Proffessions. The game has a 
 great story and is fun until the you near the end. Then the difficulty level sky rockets and get 
 just plain fustrating. It makes you want to stop playing the game. Otherwise this game is one of 
 the best additions to the series. The North African/Islamic/Arabic theme is amazing and with the 
 graphics this game has, it still is kind to your system. With the new Elite Mission, The Domain 
 of Anguish, the game has another dose of fun... a difficult does of fun though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firefox10210
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 31, 2006 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Nightfall, yay the 3rd Guild Wars game that is very good but can be very boring at times and confusing. 
 You play the role as a sunspear general out to save Elona from this crazy woman trying to unleash 
 her god of evilness from a hellish place [hell.] Ok so you join the sunspears, yay, do like 50 
 quests takes you 3 hours gain three titles, found out u need 6 to wear and you keep progressing. 
 What a drag..................... the graphics and sound are great and gameplay is good, since arenanet 
 has introduced heroes, customizable henchmen that are like your buddies that never leave you and 
 they level up with you. The game is cool and the storyline is good, it's just a bit of a drag to 
 do all the quests. But hey, it will last you a long time....... that's a plus, since factions takes 
 1 month to completely beat even if you only play on weekends. Yea, 1 month. Anyway this game is 
 good, if you're a Guild Wars fan, buy this game, it's better than factions, not as good as number 
 1, but hey, it's worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_zelda_dude
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 29, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Guild wars Nightfall is a great game, yet with all the new additions its hard for new players to 
 join in the fun. The only big problem with guild wars nightfall is that it has almost too much 
 added. Adding the heroes the new gameplay and, its very overwhelming for even expierenced players. 
 If you are new to the Guild wars trilogy then stick with Prophecies or factions (though i prefer 
 prophecies) and wait to see if you like it. The graphics in this game are very vibrant and colorful, 
 it is not a huge jump but it still keeps the taste of the other 2 Guild wars games. The AI is what 
 Arena net was focusing on when making Nightfall. Your Heroes are extremely helpful and you can 
 customize them in various different ways. The enemies are also smarter and now fight your weaker 
 party members, like the elementalist assasin etc. If your a new players and can take alot of things 
 in at once then give it a try. If you cant choose another Guild wars game, If you are expierenced 
 then get it, theres not question as if you should get or not. The voice overs are great too, and 
 it helps that there mouths actually move. The 2 new profeshions added r good but not needed. As 
 when prophecies was made they made profeshions that were needed. The music in this game is also 
 great, the orchestra from factions is back and does a freat deal in Nightfall too.
  -Aaron 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 27, 2006 3:53 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars is a funny one - I don't quite know what to make of it. At first I hated this game, 
 but nevertheless persevered and I now find it quite addictive (I'm now at level 11} . It should 
 have really been called Bug hunt rather than nightfall, because believe me, this is a real grind 
 fest - hours of killing lower level creatures in order to level up, so the main quests which are 
 otherwise impossible can be completed.
  
  The main action takes place in Player versus Environment gametype and in the early stages can be 
 quite boring as all the quests involve killing one type of insect or another and when a quest is 
 finished the rewards are experience points and money - there is no real sense of satisfaction gained 
 as you then move onto the next quest which involves squishing yet more bugs.
  
  Don't get me wrong - a lot of these quests or bug hunts as I would rather call them are quite hard 
 and have to be left until you level up before they can be completed. It would have been better 
 to have more varied enemies maybe a few skeletons or mythical monsters rather than just insects
 
  
  Multi player- Player v Player game types simply involves battles with other players in an arena 
 death match game style, which again, often really isn't any fun.
  
  What really lets Nightfall down apart from the monotonous quest line, is the combat action which 
 involves clicking icons at the bottom of the screen. This really detracts from the fun of modern 
 combat gaming and it would be much better to click the mouse against an opponent in order to use 
 a sword or scythe attack rather than clicking an icon and watching the combat animation. For this 
 type of game a graphical user interface such as the one found in Dark Messiah would have been ideal.
 
  
  Travel is another issue as the towns and outposts are so far apart, the game involves a lot of 
 running on foot for half an hour or more, only to find that when you get to your destination you 
 cannot enter the village as there was a quest you hadn't completed sometime back and you are denied 
 access until its done. Or if you get killed , its back to a respawn point near to where you set 
 off.
  
  Another let down is the lack of speech between NPC's. The only time speech is heard is on cut screens 
 when finishing a main quest, other wise there is no speech at all. It would have been much better 
 if the town's NPC quest givers said their lines rather than you having to read it all on screen. 
 This is even more annoying for me as I run a high end rig with all the graphics settings maxed 
 out, so the text (even on the largest setting) is so small I can barely read it.
  
  Nightfall is directly comparable to World of Warcraft. In my view, WOW is better scripted and has 
 the overall greatness factor, but it is now very old and tired with clunky cartoonish graphics. 
 Given the choice between the two, despite its flaws I would choose Nightfall every time, notwithstanding 
 the fact that Nightfall has no monthly fees.
  
  Nightfall has a heroes system which are allies to help you in battle. Your own character in addition 
 to the heroes are all infinitely customizable which makes the game a little complicated but adds 
 some depth to the challenge.
  
  Graphics are outstanding - lush vistas and the women are babes.
  
  The in game music is also 
 great, the only flaw with the sound being the lack of speech.
  
  Stability is awesome and I have not had a single glitch crash or hiccup playing this title on max 
 settings.
  
  Value for money is high as this game is now quite cheap, there are hours of gameplay and no monthly 
 fees.
  
  Lets hope the next addition to the Guild Wars series deals with the issues above - better quest 
 lines, more varied opponents, better combat and introduce some speech - if so it will be an outstanding 
 game.
  
  If you don't like this review move on, if you do like it then rate it please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antidepresant
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 26, 2006 4:01 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars was on of the most surprising games of the year 2005. It was original and fresh and 
 had the guts to be a little different from the other traditional MMORPG's. The most positive thing 
 about Guild Wars is the fact that the game doesn't revolve around killing monsters and gaining 
 experience. It's about completing quests and having fun while doing it.... and also killing monsters. 
 Nightfall improves over the original by adding two new amazing races, adding an awesome world inspired 
 by African jungles and deserts and an all new Hero system that makes you less dependable on other 
 players. It's also an amazing game overall if you can look past it's few graphical glitches and 
 the short story.
  
  It helps if you've played the other campaigns before but it isn't necessary because the Nightfall 
 story mode starts out with a pretty good tutorial that really helps you to understand how the game 
 works. After the tutorial level and the tutorial mission you find yourself in the big city of Kamadan, 
 Jewel of Istan which is really beautiful and large as well. From there you can take your quests 
 and expand your map area. The story isn't really interesting but it motivates you to keep playing 
 (I don't care about the story, I just really like the game) . You'll meet some awesome characters 
 and fight your way trough hordes of monsters.
  
  There are 8 classes to choose from (6 known from the original games) - Warrior, Ranger, Monk, Mesmer, 
 Necromancer, Elementalist, Dervish and Paragon. The two last ones are the newest and they are really 
 interesting because they're innovative and fun to play. The Dervish is the Grim Reaper type schyte 
 wielding warrior that wears light armor, a strong schyte and uses Mysticism, Air-wind magic. Paragon 
 is a strong spear throwing leader that uses Leadership and Motivation to help his fellow teammates. 
 The two new races are an awesome addition and they are very original indeed.
  
  Guild Wars Nightfall uses the same skill system as the previous ones. You can develop your 4 attribute 
 types depending on your character. You may own a lot of skills but you can only use 8 of them on 
 the battlefield. This time you can buy a skill called '' Signet of Capture'' which you can use 
 to capture elite skills from killed bosses that are from same class as you.
  
  On a technical standpoint the game still looks amazing for a MMORPG. The characters are very detailed 
 and skills perform really well. I myself encountered some pretty bad frame rate drops on larger 
 battles (which i didn't in Prophecies) . The music is well composed and performed and creates a 
 good mood. Surprisingly the voice acting isn't bad. In the end thanks to Nightfall, Guild Wars 
 is still one of the leading MMORPG's this year. It brings to amazing races and some very welcome 
 new additions to the series by not losing the things that made this game so much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: northtenn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 22, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  With the third installment of Guild Wars (don't call it an expansion) Nightfall seems to continue 
 to make strides in giving players something new while pushing improvements in the old. While I 
 personally don't love all of the adjusted features and updates, I am pleased to see them still 
 making major steps in gameplay and game features to make purchasing a new game worth the time and 
 money. And it is still free to play online so once you put down your $40-50 you will be able to 
 pick it up and put it down as many times as you want and not have to worry about monthly fees. 
 Pros: * New Heroes are a RPG geek's dream with just enough managing of characters to feel involved 
 and not too much to feel burdened
  * Graphics seem to have made a step forward
  * New character classes are not just another caster or fighter class, but actually new types of 
 characters
  * Integrates smoothly in previous games in the franchise and moving between feels effortless
 
  * Arena Net and Guild Wars is still providing great community events for player of both the new 
 games and the old ones (Factions and Prophecies)
  Cons:
  * New features in Mission mode are a pain and can make the some missions feel like a grind 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyrustheviruz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 21, 2006 10:47 am PT
Review:  Nightfall has all the ingredients to a great game, a deep plot, a wide variety of customization 
 and incomparable graphics. There is a wide world and the game fits in with the others without any 
 contradictions.
  
  The value that you get with this game is amazing, upon creating your account for a mere &pound;30 
 it remains active forever and you can leave the game unused on your desktop for a matter of months 
 and go back and play the game and be reminded of why you loved the game to start with.
  
  This installment in the Guild Wars series adds so much to the game such as new titles, weapons, 
 a brand new inscription system for both weapons and armor and the biggest installment is the hero 
 system (a collection of customizable henchmen with amazing AI) .
  
  Although the game is enjoyable to play it didn't give me that sense of awe that i got when i created 
 my first prophecies character it still is a heavyweight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ethanas
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 19, 2006 9:23 pm PT
Review:  I believe this is one of the better expansion they had. The Paragon and Dervishes professions really 
 bring a new dimension to gameplay. Not to mention the implementation of controllable henchs (hero) . 
 No more waiting for PUG, no more getting rejected and waiting for hours if you are in one of the 
 least popular professions. Beautifully rendered worlds, and good all round missions and quests. 
 Most quests can be done alone now (with the implemented heros) . It is recommended that you get 
 used to controlling heros.
  
  One downside to the expansion is, if you are really new, your heros will start with really basic 
 skills, which you have to spend some gold to purchase more. However if you are an experienced player 
 (having tried and captured almost all elites and skill in the previous expansions) your heros will 
 have all the skills captured available to them. Heros can also be a money sink now, you generally 
 upgrade their armors with runes, give them weapons. So instead of taking care of 1 character you 
 generally have 12 others to upgrade, purchase for.
  
  Overall a really beautiful expansion, graphic is noticable better too. Gameplay is fresh and interesting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drake6669
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 16, 2006 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Nightfall, introduces the hero add on sort of thing. Which is basically a little sub-hero that 
 levels up and gets new skills and stuff like that. Get guild wars nightfall, or any guild wars 
 for that matter. If you do not get guild wars, and get wow instead I will cut you up. I will. Still 
 need 100 words. The apple The apple The apple The apple The apple The apple The apple The apple 
 The apple The apple The apple The apple The apple The apple The apple The apple The apple The apple 
 The apple The apple The apple 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KoekjevanLU
Rating: 5.6
Date: Dec 14, 2006 2:12 pm PT
Review:  Trying the same part over and over and over again seems to be the new red line of ArenaNet's idea 
 of a challenge. Guild Wars used to be fun. Now, when I've played nightfall for about 5 minutes, 
 I feel like breaking things and I rage-quit Guild Wars for the rest of the day. It starts of pretty 
 good, but at the end-game, quest don't get more tactical and fun, (like Prophecies and even Factions) 
 you simply get overwhelmed by large groups of level 28 creatures doing massive damage. Once you 
 manage to survive that, you get more, then more, and more.
  From the two new characters, the paragorn is ok. The various skills make it a very good addition 
 to about any team. The Dervish is overall overpowered, spamming both conditions and massive AoE 
 damage (standard attack) combined with the highest max damage weapon, it's all just too much.
 
  Some people love this game, some are very disappointed, and I am one of the second. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K03NTJ3
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2006 6:04 am PT
Review:  great game, only i dont fancy it at much as Factions and Prophecies
  
  Difficulty? not really.. im very familiar with the game. with my 400+ hours guild wars gametime, 
 i think i know almost everything of the game.
  if ur not familiar with it, im sure u'll learn it very fast! great introduction and how-to-play 
 guides avaible! Just Right!
  
  I spend almost all my spare time to guild wars. currently im busy with a Paragon. i do like it, 
 but.. not as much as Factions (echo)
  
  It takes a little while to get into the game, not too much :) so you can start right away!
  
 
  Its really worth playing.. thats a fact, but buy the other campaigns 2, couse it ll bore you soon 
 enough
  
  Thats all, if u are looking for info, just send me a message :)
  
  L8tor.
  Koen 
::::::

::::::
UserName: non_existence
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 9, 2006 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars Nightfall.
  Sure, the running around between missions is tedious, but the actual fighting isn't too shabby. 
 Lots of new updates pour in fast so bugs don't last long. Its pretty long a game, and the story-line 
 is superb, with lost of extra optional quests that help give a sense of a true adventure.
  
  The new computer henchmen are quite a moot-point, on one hand its cool having characters progress 
 with you in the campaign, but it tends to clog up the party screen, especially with -parties of 
 eight or more.
  
  All in all, I don't think this is just a game to play an hour or two this week then just stop playing 
 it. Its well worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixty7velle
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 5, 2006 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Let me first start by saying that I've spent over 600 hours on Prophesies and Factions (mainly 
 prophesies) , and have experienced about everything GW has to offer to the greatest extent. After 
 making it through Nightfall with 2 of my main characters and getting a Paragon to the final missions, 
 I've found that although the PvE is better than Factions, it's still lacking. The main reason for 
 this is that there's not much new. Most of the quests are repetitive and really haven't changed 
 much from the original. Another problem I found was that there wasn't a frim direction in this 
 game. Many of the quests don't lead you in the right way to progress in the game. I found myself 
 asking alot of questions to figure out what to do next my first time through.
  Something that adds to the gameplay is the new Hero system. They make forming groups much easier 
 than before, especially for those hard missions in prophesies that you always had trouble with. 
 The monks are essential for making it though Nightfall due to the constant lack of real monks. 
 Getting your hero's skills set and equipped can be a huge hassle though. You must unlock the elites 
 for them to use and skill organization can be somewhat time consuming. For veterans this will be 
 easy, but probably not for newbies. As for equipping them, the sky's the limit. It is also simple 
 to lvl them up, since they gain xp while you do too.
  There really hasn't been any big changes in gameplay from the original. The PvP is still top notch 
 in my book. Nightfall hasn't changed anything accept for the skills and races for PvP, which is 
 for the best. Graphics are still the same as the original. The artificial intelligence has improved 
 some, although it has become hard to break aggro lately, which is should be fixed in a near-future 
 patch.
  All-in-all, this is a great game that will keep you occupied for a month or two. To really get 
 into GW, I suggest buying Prophesies, but for a casual gamer Nightfall will suffice. In game name: 
 Mexican Beef 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DotjeKonijn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Nightfall is in two words: Per-Fect. The two new profession are the strongest in the whole game 
 and the campaign is bigger than before. Amazing. New skills, weapons, runes, armor (although a little 
 disappointing) , the hero system... out of breath.... and many more.
  Elona is a wonderful continent, the environment is just beautiful. The domain of torment is very 
 creepy. Them monsters in nightfall are very easy to kill, except the ones in the Realm of Torment, 
 I don't like those.... creepy...
  Beatiful.. lovely... to  bla bla bla hundred words bla bla bla bla 
 bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GWfreak
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 3, 2006 5:01 am PT
Review:  The game starts you out right into the story... No boring sensless traing exercises like: first 
 walk to the house. Then walk away from the house. Instead you learn as you play the game, proving 
 that its better to have fun while learning (tell that to my sixth grade math teacher) .
  
  After you finish the first mission ( training) you are introduced to the vast land of Elona (Egypt 
 Tyria style) Where you can either go completly solo trying to level up alone. Or meet and enteract 
 with people like you who want to have a good gaming experience. You are enlisted into a Guild quickly 
 where you can meet people who can help you get around the world of Elona.
  
  The game makes you go throughout the Island of Istan when you first begin the game. Don't get the 
 wrong Idea it's Huge. When I first looked at the map I thought wow that's one big place but then 
 I went out of zoom. (Just to tell you its really big)
  
  All In all the game Is really good and I reccomend it to all you gamers out there who want a good 
 game for their money. As one of the Guild wars catch phrases goes: 'Why not?' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sp0ckster
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 1, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  Since I've never played any of the guild wars before i did not know what to expect. The fact that 
 there is no monthly fee made me choose for this game over other online playing games.
  
  Considering the fact that I have the game now for a month and only explored 10% of the world, the 
 content (world/quests) for your money is immense compared to MMORPG's with monthly gaming fee. This 
 is of course only getting better and better the longer you play.
  
  Maybe the community might not feel as big as with World of Warcraft but once you get deeper in 
 the story line you will have more questions/discussion to/with players and will eventually build 
 your own friend groups.
  
  Finally I would like to note that the update system is perfect and frequently. There is always 
 bugs fixed and new content is added!,.. great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KineticSoul
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  The Good: The third chapter in an amazing series. The addition of heroes is another great idea 
 from the innovative company ArenaNet. This game has so many things going for it that I could go 
 on for pages. You cannot go wrong with this series of games. You can choose to play the whole game 
 without other players (using henchmen) I would call this a singleplayer mode or you can play with 
 other live players multiplayer mode.
  The Bad: N/A
  
  Gameplay:9.0
  Graphics:9.0
  Sound:9.0
  Value:9.0
  Tilt:9.0
  Singleplayer:9.0 PvE
  Multiplayer:9.0 PvP
  
  Conclusion: 
 I love how each chapter introduces us to different cultures and races. If your a loner or into 
 playing with other live players this game has what you are looking for. I think the high quality 
 of gameplay makes this a must buy and a must have for every PC gamers collection. I would warn you 
 though this game is addicting and before you know it hours will pass quickly. There are so many 
 professions to choose from and different builds you can try.
  
  My Score:9.0 Superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martythegiant
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 28, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  Gameplay-Guild wars nightfall is mostly the same as the other two games but has extra quests and 
 missions for you to complete. The game is set in elona a sort of egyptian style continent where 
 you have to defeat the evil force of Nightfall. The cooperative missions are great as they help 
 you meet different people from around the world and help achieve what you would not all by yourself. 
 Heroes are introduced in this game and you can take them along to complete missions
  
  Graphics-The graphics show a lot of detail to set the scene of elona which makes it more interesting 
 to play.
  
  Sound-This is the greatest let down of the game, the music. This is very, very annoying and when 
 it is played over and over again you can go mental!
  
  Value-This game is good value for any guild wars fan and could soon become a hit 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skat137321
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 28, 2006 12:58 am PT
Review:  Like the previous two Guild Wars continents, the new continent Elona never ceased to amaze me with 
 the amazing landscapes that can make spend many hours just admiring them. Just like in Nightfall 
 there are two new classes: the Paragon (that acts like a battle commander wielding a spear) and 
 the Dervish (a sort of holy warrior that wields a scythe and has many skills to support themselves 
 and damage the enemies) . In this expansion in addition to the henchmen you can use a hero (which 
 you can fully customize, adding skills or armours and weapons to help you in battles) which you 
 can take with you in PVE and in PVP areas. There is also a new PVP arena that allows to players 
 to fight against each other with their heroes. Reaching level 20 is faster than in Prophecies but 
 slower than in Factions. The game is a great addition to the series but nothing has really changed 
 in game engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blizz_kid
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 22, 2006 10:45 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars hasn't faltered yet, but it needs to slow down and grow at a more controlled rate.
 
  
  Nighfall, the third installment in the Guild Wars series, is a great new adventure and a great 
 addition to the ever growing world of Guild Wars. Heroes make it possible to complete missions 
 when no suitable human player may be found, the addition of new skills and equipment allows for 
 even more diversity and excitement in PvP and PvE, and there are more challenges, missions, areas, 
 and everything!
  
  Kinda seems like a lot to take in eh?
  
  I have no complaints about graphics, sound, or gameplay. Graphics are impressive and appealing 
 as usual. The soundtrack is awesome, as we have come to expect from Jeremy Soule, and the gameplay 
 is fun, fast, and exciting, but I realize now that a problem is developing that will need to be 
 addressed: there is almost too much to do.
  
  As it stands now, there are 10 classes, three HUGE continents, and millions of upon millions of 
 ways to obliterate your opponents with such a huge repertoire of skills and skill-combinations. 
 Now imagine how much trouble there'll be if with the fourth release, we are given two NEW classes, 
 a NEW
  continent to explore, and another wave of hundreds of new skills to add to your already massive 
 collection. Too many possibilities, too many areas to explore...
  
  Nightfall adds great new things to the series, but it will eventually become too much to handle. 
 There is no reason why you shouldn't get Nightfall, as it is an epic quest with much excitement 
 and adventure to be had, but I would like to see the next release be one that expands upon the 
 continents and classes we already have. There is a LOT of unused space in Tyria, Cantha, and Elona. 
 We have yet to see the emergence of a second race. Instead of adding so many new skills, perhaps 
 adding new TYPES of skills would be the way to go
  
  Please, for your sake Arena Net, heed these words. Take some time to develop a TRUE expansion, 
 one that will benefit every player! Nightfall is amazing, but a mortal like myself can only take 
 so much amazing . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gruan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 21, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  Arenasoft, having made two great previous Guildwars games (Prophecies and Factions) , delivers a 
 third which is in all satisfying and fun. Although much has not changed from the previous Guildwars 
 games, the Guildwars formula has been overall improved to make Nightfall a much better game.
  
  Gameplay 9: Nightfall's gameplay sticks to the two previous games, although it does add in 
 some new content. There are two new races, the Dervish and Paragon, which adds in a lot more creative, 
 strategic, and different ways to combine your professions to make your character more superior. 
 Unlike Factions and Prophecies, the Dervish and Paragon are much more complicated. The Pvp action 
 in Guildwars has not changed too much, and because I am a really big fan of the Pvp action, I am 
 still completely satisfied by all the addicting team battles there are.
  
  Graphics 9- Nightfall's graphics has not been improved much, but ArenaSoft has definetley added 
 in lighting effects to make the game look more beautiful and outstanding
  
  Sound 9- Sound is always good in the guildwars games, and does not dissapoint in this one either. 
 Value 10- Definetly worth it! This game will keep you hooked up for more than 100 hours or so. 
 There is plenty of stuff in the campaign mode and after you've had enough with that, there's PVP 
 still left to explore!
  
  Tilt 10- Overall the game is great, sticks to the same formula, and does not disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benwng
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 17, 2006 4:56 pm PT
Review:  I was a huge fan, having a guild wars rank 10 account, fissure armours etc.. with the two previous 
 games. At first i was really addicted to GW but over time i have found it to become really boring.
 
  
  The new expansion features a great-looking new continent to explore, filled with countless quests; 
 two new professions add more depth and gameplay still offers an excellent mix of action, role-playing, 
 and strategy. But its just seems all so repetitive now. One of the oldest flaws was the lack of 
 players to complete missions with as once the majority of people complete the game they tend to 
 farm or play PvP. Now, to improve this GW has introduced customizable heros which is quite complicated 
 sorting out all the skills available and not as fun as playing with real players. Another thing 
 is that all the items in GW can be purchase so unlike WoW with soulbound armour all you have to 
 do is farm/ buy gold for the best gear so unlike WoW you don't have the same feel of uniqueness 
 or epicness.
  
  PvP is fun but to be honest the gaps between the higher ranks are too large. People who get rank 
 9 and a tiger emote just can't be bothered anymore to spend the rest of their lives grinding for 
 a rank 12 phoneix. The other PvPs are pretty boring and not as competitive as HoH. Guild vs Guild 
 is fun but unless you're albe to join a top 100 and find enough people to come on at the same time 
 its quite frustrating sometimes to get your ass kicked. Overall, GW is fun but as for an old timer 
 like me, i've had enough of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: light_blade
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 17, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  This a game where you can play and finish! The Guild Wars series have eliminated many bad things 
 from MMORPGs.
  
  - Grind
  - Character remake from a mis-click
  - Keep going and going and going...
  - Subscription fee
  
  However, Nightfall's difficulty 
 is significantly harder than the other 2. I wouldn't recommend getting this first for players that's 
 new to Guild Wars. You will not understand the story anyway if you never played through the first 
 2 campaigns. However, Nightfall's story is striking and the ending is even more mind blowing (assuming 
 you didn't read any spoilers)
  
  Factions is still the one that's the easiest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dom84ts
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2006 6:57 am PT
Review:  I thing is one of the best games i ever played!!!!!!!
  Beautifull graphics great soundtrack!!!!
  All in GW is well done!!!
  I have guild Wars Prophecies 
 &amp; i bought the 27th october also guild Wars Nightfall!!! I think they are both great!!!
  probably Prophecies is longer than Factins and Nightfall but Nightfall is amazing!!! Great skills 
 great enemies and also the innovative AI!!!!!!
  is possible to control 3 heroes and set them with weapons u find in the game and also with the 
 skills u have unlocked or you are going to unlock in the game!!!!!
  Another great thing about this game is that you don't have to pay a monthly bill to play and is 
 always updated and fixed up if there are bugs or something wrong!!!! GO AND BUY IT!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarevoc1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2006 6:00 pm PT
Review:  Not only does this game mop the floor with all other RPGs on the market, it has no monthly fee. 
 I've played both EQ and WoW and found myself continuing to play both solely to get better gear 
 or level grinding (which eventually gets boring) . There's very little level grinding and gear with 
 max stats is easily attainable. All missions, PVP battles, etc... are tuned to last only around 
 30 minutes each so the game doesn't require hours of constant play for one to be successful. The 
 entire GW series is a must have for any RPG or MMORPG fan. This expansion adds some very interesting 
 content in the form of sand worms that you ride in / control, heroes (improved henchmen) , an entire 
 new chapter in the GW saga, and new PVP battles. Thanks for another great expansion ANET... Keep 
 them coming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davini44
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 16, 2006 8:53 am PT
Review:  Over the last 2 years I have played all the GW chapters. No game before this has lasted more than 
 a few months on my hard drive. These are my observations:
  
  1. This game constantly evolves : Anet supports this game well and has constantly upgraded, balanced 
 and generally done an excellent job managing a world wide player base. They do special and holiday 
 events and PVP tournements. They also do an excellent job of moderating those anti-social player 
 types ;-)
  
  2. ITS FREE... no monthly charge. Amazing considering the content enrichment and support. Yes you 
 buy a new chapter every 6 or so months (optional) ... It still works out to a minimal cost. 3 It 
 has a great variety of game-play options: I will not candy coat the fact that to be good in PVP 
 takes considerable dedication. Guild verses Guild battles have to be experienced to be appreciated. 
 PVE in nightfall is just plain beautiful... you will stop in game just to check stuff out.... you 
 get a sense of exploration. Only those bent on acquiring stuff Diablo style wont appreciate this. 
 Those people will still find opportunity by farming if they wish.
  
  4. A great sense of Community: The guild set up has to be one of the coolest things about the game. 
 Most guilds are full of players of all levels and most are very encouraging to noobs. Most people 
 I have turned on to this game have got hooked. IMO This game (all chapters) just does not get the 
 props it deserves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: james_vu90
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 16, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  This is just awesome game!! The 2 new professions paragon and dervish in NF are just great! I love 
 out Paragons, they use spears and are quite supportive with their shouts and chants and on the 
 other hand the dervish are cool with their scythes and the avatars! The new heros feature is another 
 new excitement!. You will no longer need to use those stupid Henchmans! They are ALL customisable. 
 I really liked the new feature of ridable wurms too. It's really fun riding it :D
  
  Overall. This is game is worth to BUUY!! There's so much fun in the PvE and PvP section is really 
 good too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phazor58
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 15, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  After playing this game extensively, I've found it to possibly be the best in the series, rivaled 
 by Prophecies of course. Although the GameSpot review says the hero system is difficult to use, 
 that's a joke, anyone who can play a roleplaying game knows how to work the hero system to their 
 advantage. The gameplay is challenging even to veteran players. I myself am still stuck at Gate 
 of Pain, which is equivalent in difficulty to UW (considering the same creatures to fight but with 
 henchmen, heroes, and pugs) .
  
  The new classes are very well made. The Dervish is a great PvE character, although not as well 
 tuned for PvP as it may have seemed during the PvP event. The paragon has found its way into many 
 top guild's builds for GvG and is really changing the Metagame.
  
  The challenge missions are still there, except now the reward is gold, experience, and hero armor. 
 The armor for characters is also very nice looking. The Primeval warrior armor is probably the 
 best armor I have seen in all three games, and the female necromancer 5k vabbian armor is great.
 
  
  The new insignas and inscriptions system is interesting, and it's really changed the economy of 
 the game as well as the versatility of PvP weapon/offhand/armor selection.
  
  Although people usually don't note Guild Wars for its storyline, the new writer really has done 
 a great job with tying in the stories from Prophecies and Factions into Nightfall. Many will remember 
 the Abaddon's Mouth mission from endgame Prophecies. Abaddon is the evil god of Nightfall, who 
 threatens to turn the land into.. well the obvious Nightfall .
  
  Despite the reviews of Gamespot, Gamespy, and similar websites, this game truly is one for the 
 players. The 9.3 (right now at least) rating shows the real essence of Nightfall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weilian_basic
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 13, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  well, i'm asian guildwars fans, n after playing for a week, still think guildwars Prophesies is 
 the best of the series, but much better than faction.
  
  nightfall quest still bored like faction, just turn around first island to completed the quest, 
 n push ur charater to lvl 20, this is bad idea for RPG type game, cause of the stand alone game 
 so can't make it like Prophesies can lvl up slowly, n game dificulty not up so fast...
  
  hero system make guild wars more like solo game, until half way i play guildwars seldomly i acompany 
 to other gamers to enjoy the game together... anyway is fun for me, but is difficult for new guildwars 
 players cause their have no choice for new skill...
  
  graphich not much improved but still beautiful, with middle range display card can set beautiful 
 game already... sound got improved too, not like Prophesies n faction when fighting with boss still 
 boring background music, now is rock!!!
  
  so guildwars fans of cause can't miss this latest episod to explore new world, for the new fans 
 we r welcome to join together with us, we will kick our hero try to help u n teach u how to enjoy 
 WORLD OF GUILDWARS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyokozam
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 16, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  This is one hell of a game that hardcore gamer should not miss it . Best in
  GW series. There's a lot more to explore with excellent gameplay and highly
  addictive. U won't 
 fight alone as there will be a Heros to accompany you through out your mission. If you need a additional 
 storage space for all your salvage item you can purchase from an agent for as little as 50 gold. 
 In which you can access through out the game as the representative is widely
  spread.
  
  With the improve graphic and sound its sure to wake you up and hook yourself day and night. U don't 
 require a very powerful processor or high end
  video card to run the game . And the plus point is that this game don't take
  hours and hours 
 to load . Furthermore , you won't experience of being kick off from the game at time nor being 
 disconnected half way thru the game. Before , I hate online game becos of these factor but not 
 now ever since I start playing GW . U just get hook......
  
  The game AI is all long good as before or even better . Except during battle you need to keep a 
 look out for your character . Everytime ,when your Hero
  kill a creature one's must manually switch to attack the next target. As it won't automatically 
 provide support for your assistant . Before you discover
  your Hero might even die or fail your mission . Be alert during battle and
  you will pull your 
 way thru .
  
  So ? Why are you still sitting here? Go get the game before you miss all the fun. Don't care about 
 those negative comment . What can you ask for more
  for such a wonderful and smooth RPG online game ? What's more ?Its FREE
  online gameplay. Best 
 of all , you don't even require the first 2 issue to run the game and sure you will appreciate 
 the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason_223
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 12, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  I personaly think that nightfall has had some massive upgrades and is alot better then factions. 
 But dont get me wrong factions is still a incredible game but theres just something about having 
 a hero that can fight and heal u thats good. The Story line is awsome as well so i cant really 
 see any flaws in it what so ever. The portals have had a revamp and basicly what i like about it 
 is every 6 mounths the game gets a fresh start with the option to bring your charecters over. So 
 the fact you can bring ya ranger wearing the Exclusive 15k Luxon armor over to Nightfall makes 
 the Guild Wars Seriers worth a look at in anyones case. And also While i am here may as well talk 
 about the PVP in the game... Its better then wow (World Of Warcraft) the PVP in Guild Wars Nightfall 
 is awsome and insane Hero Battles and the lot who would want anymore even the PVP in Factions was 
 good Luxon Vs The Kurziks.
  
  So Over All people i am telling you this from someone who has played wow and has had a few lvl 
 60 Epics (So i have spent some time playing both games) and i can say that Guild Wars Nightfall 
 Certainly keeps up with WoW in nerly Every aspect of MMORPG 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhannguyen1990
Rating: 6.6
Date: Nov 11, 2006 6:43 am PT
Review:  Many gamers found it difficult to play because of the nerf that the creator pulled out from the 
 game. Some believe that fighting in the Hall of Heroes (HA) is the easiest way to make money. The 
 easiest way sometimes can be the hardest way for players to get in. In order to join a good HA 
 group, players need to show their title/emote. Usually from rank 6 up, people can get decent items 
 from HA. In the other hand, PvE allowed people to explore places, hunt for treasures, and level 
 up. But there's also a dilemma to it -- the items/gold nerf from Anet. I'm not saying that this 
 is bad, but they pushed it to the extreme limit. This review was not made to discourage people 
 from buying the game, but it was from my own experience. Thank you for looking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mimmi1234
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2006 3:10 am PT
Review:  It is big, fun and with a very nice graphics engine . The new features in this champaign are such 
 as Heroes, new skills , a new world and of course 2 new professions , The heros are well implemented 
 and easy to use and learn, it can be hard in the beginning but do not give up it is a very usefully 
 ally in the game.
  
  The game have a great tutorial area in where you will learn everything usefull and it is not going 
 on and on and on as many others do, so really do not skip it. The two new profession are nice looking 
 , balanced and very cool to use. More than hundreds of new skills and a lot of new items and runes 
 are added to the game. If you are looking for a game to play online and without monthly fees, you 
 will love GWs Nightfall and the other champaign&acute; s too I am the lucky owner of all 3 , and 
 when you have them you can travel all over Guild Wars... can&acute; t wait until the next champaign 
 comes out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esvegi
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 10, 2006 5:06 pm PT
Review:  The heroes which are brought into Nightfall provide players with powerful opportunities to charge 
 into battle with better equipped and smarter side-kicks allowing for easier building of effective 
 groups with which you can actually achieve something - rather than having to wait for 8 random 
 people to show up. There has been a massive AI overhaul and the henchmen too seem far more intelligent 
 and effective in battle.
  PvP battle have had some improvements, but minor ones. This is definitly the expansion for solo 
 players who don't want to wait around until they can put together a good group. It is now possible 
 to successfully and with relative ease complete all missions with heroes and henchmen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asmoddeuss
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  GW Nightfall is the best chapter in the GW series ! , it's big, fun and with very nice graphics 
 engine . The new features such as Heroes , are well implemented and extremely easy to use and learn, 
 the game have a great tutorial area where you will learn everything. The two new profession are 
 nice looking , balanced and cool. More than 300 hundreds new skills, a lot of new items and runes. 
 The PvP part of the game is just amazing, pure action and fun.
  
  If you are looking a game to spent some hours per day, you will love Nightfall ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arnavdesai
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 10, 2006 11:28 am PT
Review:  This has to be one of the best GW game as of today. The beautiful and amazing world of Elona is 
 just fun and it really is not grind. There are some truly fun things you do and missions which 
 break up the routine of running from one area to the other and killing things in the way.
  Although the new builds are complex and kinda difficult to master by an average to weak player 
 like me, it sitll doesnt hurt to try and you can just get by to the next area with NPC.
  The hero system is a boon and couldnt have come sooner cause it's becoming harder and harder to 
 play with people in the earlier two chapters. The negative aspect is the terrible expense I have 
 had to bear in decking up my heroes :) and giving them good stuff.
  Bottom line is it will get boring if you keep playing alone, the real point of any MMORPG is playing 
 with people and this is as true for GW as it is for the rest of the games in this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supadave1
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 10, 2006 7:49 am PT
Review:  A lot of great ideas have been added in Nightfall but I really have to disagree with the addition 
 of hero's and points. There is no need to meet and play with real people anymore now that you can 
 have customized henchmen. My guild tried to do a mission together and we were forced to take a 
 specific henchman which caused us to have to ask one of our guild members to leave the party.. 
 That should never be the case in any online RPG! Shame on them! The idea needs to be tweaked or 
 vanquished. If I wanted a stand alone RPG then I would buy one. This is not the path Guild wars 
 should be taking.
  
  The sunspear point system blows to. I don't like an RPG telling me when I can and can not continue 
 my primary path. If I'm too weak, i'll drop back and level up. Stop trying to force players to 
 play at a certain speed. We are smarter then that. Prophacies never tried to force players in any 
 way and that is why it easily stands out as the best in the series. Open the towns, stop with the 
 points, let us have our freedom back or you will loose even more gamers to WoW. There is alot of 
 good things to mention about the release as well but I felt I had to mention the hero and point 
 situation. Many of my fellow guild members feel the same and are pretty put off by it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barnibus0
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 1, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  A Nightfall Review Okay, most reviews out there are 10.00s or 9.9s, and although mine is not much 
 different (9.3) , I can tell you why everything is all gravy in Guild Wars. The first one, Prophecies 
 deserves a 9.5 or higher, it was excellent, innovative, and free. Factions tore apart Guild Wars, 
 leaving an OK expansion pack, but a rather bland aftertaste. Nightfall was a mix of the two, leaving 
 a mark on Guild Wars, unlike Factions, it brings a lovely, somewhat new setting to gaming. Ill 
 tell you all about it in my categories.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10 A Recovery from Factions
  
  Guild Wars Nightfall brings a good number of things to Guild Wars. It brings professions, 20 new 
 missions, a new continent, and best of all: Heroes. Heroes are quite cool, for people who dont 
 want to deal with stupid people in town, or people not wanting to deal with that Healing Henchman 
 who wont actually heal you. You see, heroes can be taught new skills, like if you want Tahlkora 
 (Monk Hero) to be a Protection Monk, just reset her attributes, give her some good protection skills, 
 then once your exploring, shell help both youre party and you. Koss (Warrior Hero) isnt too 
 useful as a Warrior-Elementlist? Make him a Warrior Monk, and have him cast Mending on you. Heck, 
 he uses mostly Adrenaline, why need Energy? However, there is a downside. Hero AI is more advanced 
 than henchmen, but theyre still too stupid to use combos, such as the simple, old, Gash/Sever 
 Artery trick. This wounds there usefulness, but overall, theyre a great asset to Guild Wars. The 
 professions? I like them, a lot, actually. The Dervish, a holy, scythe-wielding Zealot who makes 
 n breaks enchantments on itself to either heal itself, or damage its enemies. The Paragon, a 
 rather straight forward class, boosts his or her allies with magical chants, while helping him 
 or herself, too. I have chosen to be a Dervish, and am quite the happy little Guild Wars player 
 with it, as they have a few Scythe Area-Of-Effect damage skills. Graphics: 8/10 A Sight for Sore 
 Eyes
  
  Although Nightfalls graphics are great, Factions actually beats Nightfall at this one. Now, now, 
 dont get me wrong! Nightfall still has awesome graphics, detailed armor and weapons, and more. 
 Also, people seem to say a good deal of Nightfall is just the Crystal Desert expanded, which 
 is wrong. Sure, theres desert, but its sprinkled with Fahranur, the first city, marshes, and 
 more. I cant say much more about it, really. Im not much of a Graphics Fanatic.
  
  Sound: 9/10 Rather Pleasing
  
  Jeremy Soule, you are a great composer. This sound is amazing, 
 I love the sound of soothing (I think) flutes while journeying in Elona, unseen by predators. Then 
 a musical wave off fantastic rush comes, and I realize I am being attacked by an Irontooth Drake (which 
 are not hard, I could handle one and 4 Juvenile Bladed Termites at level 3) .
  
  Value:10/10 Guild Wars=Great Value Always
  
  No monthly payment? Thats good enough. I dont 
 have enough time or money to play World Of World-crack..
  
  Overview: 9.5 A Solid Expansion
  
  Nightfall, its a great game. Its overrated by WoW dropouts 
 who hate WoW for not being to get past level 10, and fan boys, although it isnt as great as they 
 say it is. Try it out. Ask a friend for a Trial Pass. I dont care. You already got my opinion, 
 didnt you? Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vaton
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 9, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars Nightfall is the third addition to the series.
  
  Nightfall features 2 new proffesions, the Dervish and the Paragon. The Dervish is a scythe-wielding 
 holy warrior, which can invoke the power of the five gods, Dwayna, Grenth, Balthazar, Lyssa, and 
 Melandru. They can also use Earth and Wind Prayers, along with Mysticism. Mysticism gives you energy 
 whenever an enchantment on you ends.
  
  The Paragon is a spear-wielding warrior, which uses adrenal skills like the warrior. It commands 
 the battlefield using it's Command and Leadership skills. They use enchantments and shouts to rally 
 their comrades and increase their abilities.
  
  Nightfall still has the six core proffesions, the Warrior, Monk, Mesmer, Elementalist, Necromancer, 
 and the Ranger, with added skills. You can also use the Assassin and Ritualist, but you must transfer 
 them from Factions.
  
  The gameplay is the same as the two preceding it, and the graphics are also pretty much the same. 
 The sound is as great as ever, and the music matches the Egyptian theme. If you like the other 
 two, then this game is worth getting, it's also good for new players. I personally really like 
 Nightfall, and I think it's the best of the series. The series also has a lot of PvP, for they 
 have guilds, and alliances, which is a group of up to 10 guilds. There are Guild versus Guild battles, 
 and also Hero's Ascent and the Hall of Heroes. Hero's Ascent and the Hall of Heros are 6 on 6 battles 
 to earn the favor of the gods, which lets you go to the Underworld and the Fissure of Woe. You 
 also get bonuses by kneeling at the altar of a god, and you can pay gold to get bonuses like morale 
 and stat boosts.
  
  Nightfall is a great game and is good for all who like to play MMORPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simszebing
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 9, 2006 3:11 pm PT
Review:  First and foremost, some may think that Guild Wars Nightfall is an expansion to Guild Wars but 
 its actually more like a new chapter in the world of Guild Wars. You do not need any of the previous 
 Guild Wars game to play. I read a lot of reviews about GW as a whole and it seems that people always 
 compare GW with WOW but the truth is, GW is just not the same type of game. For the people who 
 hasnt experience GW, it is a game orientated more towards a superb story line and the fact that 
 you will be able to experience the story with your buddies online. Whereas WOW is more like a MMORPG 
 directed towards character building and exploring the huge world. Both are truly exceptional in 
 their own ways.
  
  Alright enough yapping, what makes NF a winner? Firstly, it has a truly great storyline that will 
 really pin you to your seat. There are 20 missions and tonnes of quests that will keep you occupied. 
 A word of warning though, the difficulty of the game is significantly harder that previous GW games, 
 enemy now attack as a group and some will try to attack your casters first. Indeed the AI is an 
 improvement from before. Graphics as always is fantastic. The world of Elona is colourful and vibrant. 
 The graphics of the jungles is truly a sigh to behold. Spells are wonderful to watch as well. The 
 cutscenes are now better and the characters finally and move their lips and show some expressions. 
 The two new characters are a breath of fresh air as well. When you play the game, you get the feeling 
 that the game is seamless and everything progresses at a good speed. From the tutorial to the end, 
 everything feels.. better than b4. Sound wise, its good, nothing special but good enough. Whenever 
 you engage in battle, the music changes into a war song and its cool. the world is huge and its 
 really cool to explore. Another important aspect of the game is PVP. there are marked improvements 
 in the arenas. Its built in a way that its more strategic. The arenas looks superb as well and 
 as a comparison to factions, its a big improvement. Another new feature of NF is the heroes system. 
 Now, as rewards for quests, you are able to get heroes. They are still AI driven but they are much 
 more reliable than henchmen. You will be able to equip them with items and skills you think will 
 bring the most good to your party. it is indeed a breath of fresh air especially to those who prefers 
 to play the game on their own.. however, the game is not entirely without its fault. i find that 
 the game ( even from the first game, GW prophecies ) they are some navigation issues. When they 
 are so many people in your party you will find that sometimes NPC or your henchmen may get stuck. 
 NPC that follow you around for few quests will get stuck if there is a crowd in front of them and 
 after a while, when you realised hes not at your side anymore, you have to track back ur steps 
 to locate him again. Thankfully though, this rarely happens but when it does, it can be slightly 
 annoying. necros may get stuck in between their zombies so thats another unresolved problem. Another 
 bad thing is the NPC will stand quite close to you even furing fights. So, when you're busy clickin 
 on enemies, you could end up clicking them instead and you may get confused. In the bright side, 
 NPC now no longer die ( in prophecies, if they get attacked they can die and if the NPC is required 
 to finish quests, you have to restart the mission or quests ) . Some say that the story line takes 
 too long to reach the good part but I feel its fine. Lastly, there is little added content for 
 PVP other than the heroes system but GW PVP in the first place is very good.
  
  despite some technical problems whhich hopefully can be resolved in the future, Nightfall is a 
 huge improvement over Factions and is immensely satisfying to play if you are an avid fan of the 
 GW series. Its highly recommended to players who already have GW prophecies and factions as well 
 as to gamers wanting to play GW for the first time. Its the epitome of RPG and thoroughly deserves 
 two thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dday12
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 9, 2006 7:52 am PT
Review:  Ok this is DEFINATELY one of the best Guild war games EVER. It beats Factions and right up around 
 their with Prophecies.
  
  Gameplay~~ Ok Guild wars baisically has the best gameplay of any CORPG/MMORPG out there, an online 
 game that acually take some skill... This game is so fun ull never want to stop playing it. Sure 
 the begging may not be THAT great but what game DOES have a awsome begginning? Once u get to like 
 the second mission this game is as fun as hell... ~~9.3 out of 10~~~
  
  Graphics~~ Now what CORPG/MMORPG has as good graphics as Guild Wars? Like take WoW or City of Heroes 
 for example. Guild Wars graphics are the best out there. The only thing wrong is that there was 
 much of a step up from Prophecies to Factions to Nightfall ~~9.2 out of 10~~~
  
  Sound~~ Now this is where Guild Wars Really took a step up, before when you killed monsters and 
 such, you wouldnt always be in the mood, because the music wasn't right, but know when you're adventuring, 
 the musics calm and peaceful, and when your in battle, the music turns to some real fighting music 
 to pump you up. Plus Jeremy Soule plays the best music for just about any video game. ~~9.4 out 
 of 10~~
  
  Value~~9.8 out of 10~~
  
  Tilit~~9.6 out of 10~~~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voive
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2006 6:13 am PT
Review:  Hello..
  
  What a game, so many improvements on the first and second games. Once again the story line is awsome! 
 The two new characters or out of this world, i have never played anything like it with the same 
 quallitys. The new wepaons, pretty ace.. killing things with a sycthe always will be a winner for 
 me.
  It is also very challenging, since the first one came out (Guild Wars Prohpicies) they have been 
 getting harder, but at the same time all still great fun.
  If you have all three or just two of the games, then you can map travel to anyone of them and do 
 the missions/quest/pvp there. Absolouty awsome.
  Really good envoiroment, a good population of friendly people and all in all a really well thought 
 out game.
  The only down side is, is it dose lack a few things like weapon enchants, which you could get in 
 World of warcraft and just more things to make your character stand out. But because of the game 
 play and the awsome battles that go on, it makes up for thoughs small things... lol
  
  If you have any of the Guild Wars let me know your thoughts on them, please contact me on:
  mr_robo25@yahoo. co. uk
 
  
  A really good site to check out if you play any of the Guild Wars is :
  gw. gamewikis. org/
  It has walk throughs for everything and is always updated with the latest 
 data, very helpfull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilchophe
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 9, 2006 1:42 am PT
Review:  The decidedly improved storyline and overhaul of key interfaces makes
  this Chapter a step in the right direction. After a disappointing Factions
  one could be forgiven 
 for wishing this to have been the successor of Prophecies.
  
  Following a similar formula to the previous Chapters, Nightfall brings forth a sense of purpose 
 and choice to the Guild Wars franchise that has been sorely lacking.
  
  The introduction of Hero henchman has also fixed a annoying part of the previous two Chapters where 
 the choices in missions were either irritating henchmen or irritating people.
  
  All in all this is an excellent Chapter in the Guild Wars saga and hopefully is a sign of things 
 to come in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyosukeugc
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 8, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Coming into Guild Wars Nightfall as a veteran player of the other previous games (Guild Wars and 
 GW: Factions) I was a bit of a skeptic. Factions, while still a great game in my view, was nothing 
 like the original was and was not what we as the Guild Wars community expected from Arenanet.
 
  
  Let's just say my skepticism is all washed away now after playing through this wonderful game. 
 Guild Wars Nightfall takes places a couple of years after the final battles of Propechies and Factions. 
 It's on the continent of Elona which is in an almost civil war per say as an evil force is trying 
 to break free and there are those who would stop at nothing to free the dark god Abbadon. The story 
 completes the Guild Wars Trilogy and brings in many new faces including a much needed updated henchman 
 system. This new system called heroes gives you complete control over atleast 3 of these heroes 
 at a time and you can actually set their own spells and attributs and even control how they use 
 them in battle. The design and system is magnificent and a great toy to those who would want to 
 mess with it.
  
  There are many great quests and a wonderful storyline that even blows away the original. The design 
 team of Nightfall did a spectacular job of working on Chapter 3 and making sure it was the game 
 to bring light back into Guild Wars. Some of the best scenery in Guild Wars is in the wonderous 
 and rich area of Vabbi that is just decorated with amazing architecture that you would even forget 
 you're inside of a game for a moment. I don't want to spoil too much, but all I can say is that 
 if you've played Guild Wars before you'll love Nightfall and the way it works. It's beauty, it's 
 battles, and most of all it's story is brought together in this masterpiece.
  
  The only downfall I can give Nightfall is while new players won't have any trouble fitting in here 
 at all, they might be at a loss in understanding certain story elements in later parts of the game. 
 It's not that big of a deal, but the story becomes more powerful and you understand it alot more 
 if you've played the previous chapters.
  
  If you're looking for an MMO this season, this is definately the one for you, novice or expert 
 in the Guild Wars community, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walladude2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2006 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars: Nightfall is a great standalone game/expansion. The hero idea was great, and the environment 
 around you is very detailed. It makes you feel like you are in the middle of North Africa. This 
 game is by far better than Factions, and is, in my opinion, about as good, maybe even better, than 
 Guild Wars: Prophecies. There are many flaws to this game, though. First, it is very laggy, and 
 sometimes hard to even connect. Second, the hero system has somewhat taken away the need to party 
 up with other people, somewhat taking that PvE experience away. If you are thinking about buying 
 this game, I would definitely say to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobafett507
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2006 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars Prophicies was such a great game, that I originally didn't think the first sequel, Guild 
 Wars Factions, would be able to live up to it. Suprisingly, it did. However, Nightfall is more 
 than just a sequel. It adds more than just additional content. The gameplay is excellent, allowing 
 you to group with up to 7 other players, or go adventuring with computer-controlled henchman. Both 
 PvP and PvE have a lot to offer to any gamer, regardless of whether they have played either of 
 the other Guild Wars games. The storyline is also much more engaging, making it that much easier 
 to get into the game. A new dye preview system, additional titiles, an excellent and innovative 
 hero system, and two new professions make this game worth every penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_Hakked_WoW
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2006 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I found this game AWESOME in just about every way. especially the graphics. they really spent time 
 detailing this world. Although i didnt like how they had some parts of the game were you were just 
 grinding, everything else was good. Sound is really good too. There is nothing about htis game 
 that is bad! BEST GAME EVER!!!! BEST GAME EVER!!!! BEST GAME EVER!!!! BEST GAME EVER!!!! BEST GAME 
 EVER!!!! BEST GAME EVER!!!! BEST GAME EVER!!!! BEST GAME EVER!!!! BEST GAME EVER!!!! BEST GAME EVER!!!! BEST 
 GAME EVER!!!! BEST GAME EVER!!!! BEST GAME EVER!!!! BEST GAME EVER!!!! BEST GAME EVER!!!! BEST GAME 
 EVER!!!! BEST GAME EVER!!!! BEST GAME EVER!!!! BEST GAME EVER!!!! BEST GAME EVER!!!! BEST GAME EVER!!!! BEST 
 GAME EVER!!!! BEST GAME EVER!!!! BEST GAME EVER!!!! BEST GAME EVER!!!! BEST GAME EVER!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nweasel
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 7, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: With the second add-on to Guild Wars firmly in place and running strong, Guild Wars continues 
 to add more and more people to their list of players. Once again Guild Wars comes out with a new 
 game under their free online play plan. This time though, many new features have changed the look 
 of the game, not only for Nightfall players, but for the world of Guild Wars altogether. This installment 
 takes you to the continent of Elona, which is bigger than the continent of Cantha in Guild Wars 
 Factions. Many new features were added to the gameplay. One of them was the addition of Templates, 
 which allow you to set your Skills up for a certain Build, save them, and be able to load them 
 later on for use in an area that requires it. This makes it easier for you, especially if you run 
 with different Skills depending on the area that you are fighting in. More weapon and armor upgrades 
 have been added to further enhance your equipment. Salvaging now has a new system as well, which 
 I find VERY useful. When you are salvaging, you are able to see what you are salvaging when you 
 do it. You also have a 50% chance of NOT destroying the item that you are salvaging from. This 
 helps if an item has two upgrade components that you would like to take from it. There is also 
 a new Dye system. Brown and white dyes have been added to the game, and there is now a dye preview 
 system. Whenever you are adding a dye to an item, it will show you what it will look like before 
 applying it. There is also a new damage interface. The numbers showing damage dealt and recieved 
 have now been enlarged for easier viewing. There is also a sidebar now that shows you the latest 
 skills used against you, so that you aren't completely left in the dark at how you lost all the 
 life that you did. One of the biggest additions to the game is the Heroes. Heroes are henchman-like 
 AI, except for the fact that you are able to customize them fully, including skills, attribute 
 points, and equipment. You are also now able to give orders to your henchman, which may save you 
 in many different situations. To the disappointment of many players, not myself though, the Monster 
 AI was improved. They will no longer run if they are taking AOE damage and have full health. Many 
 skills and equipment have also been rebalanced with this update. Overall, this was a huge technical 
 improvement to the old build of Guild Wars, and are very much enjoyed.
  
  Graphics: As with the entire rest of the Guild Wars world, Nightfall continues to bring in excellent 
 graphics. The new world features another new look, that compliments the rest of the world very 
 nicely. There isn't much to say about this game graphics-wise, other than the fact that it's better 
 than most of the games you'll see out there now.
  
  Sound: Jeremy Soule returns once again, this time with an even bigger soundtrack than ever before 
 for the Guild Wars series. This time, the developers have added in a new feature. Whenever you 
 get into a battle situation, the music will change, and become more exciting for the moment of 
 battle. There have been some modifications to the weapon hit and spell casting sounds, but nothing 
 that will make your experience bad.
  
  Value: As always before, the value of this game is excellent. I have been playing this game for 
 many many days now, for hours on end, and I never tire of it. The ever changing landscapes keep 
 me going and looking for more. Missions bare more requirements, making you have to try harder to 
 get a perfect rating in them. Striving for completion keeps you coming back. I must say, I've never 
 found a game that I've been more entranced with. This game is definately worth the money.
  
  Score: 9.8 out of 10
  
  Comments: I recommend purchasing the Collector's Edition if you 
 still have the chance. I know that it may just cost extra money for stuff that you may not necessarily 
 want, but I feel that it is worth it. Even if just for the copy of the soundtrack that you recieve 
 with the Collector's, it is worth the money. And, like all Guild Wars games, this game IS stand 
 alone, so if you do not want to buy and play the old games [Prophecies and Factions] , you can just 
 buy this game and play through it's campaign without worrying about the others at all. And, at 
 any time, you can purchase the old games and add them to your existing account for access to the 
 old chapters of the game [of which I recommend] . Overall, this game is a masterpiece, and one that 
 I will never forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Al3ee
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 7, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is so much better than its predecesors, even Prophecies. The hero system is great because 
 it eliminates the need for pick-up groups and allows you to play co-op. It is perfect for people 
 like me who mostly play with their friends. In addition, the character's mouths move when they 
 talk in cinematics! Commanding your party of henchmen is also much easier. I can have my characters 
 pull a target and then focus fire. The interface has some other minor changes that I love. Some 
 people complain about having to get a certain rank before you move on..... whats wrong with that? 
 This makes you play some of the game's great quests. The missions are more interesting and involve 
 many new concepts to the game. The ONLY problem I have with the game is that with the hero system, 
 people are slightly less social and willing to talk to you. As you progress, this does change a 
 little. Overall, if you liked any of the other Guild Wars, get this one!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: windsong27
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 7, 2006 5:16 am PT
Review:  Hmm first of all when i bought my first guild wars the original version, it was superb and stuff 
 but it gets boring. so i warned my other fellow MMO RPG online lovers that if u like games like 
 ragnarok online just play world of warcraft, This game really Rocks but i hope Arene net will concentrate 
 in gameplay cause like i said here the rating i gave to guild wars was pretty low cause, when your 
 character goes out the city or town there's no other players but other than yourself!!!, except 
 party members of course, What i hope for this game is to build their multiplayer thing like world 
 of warcraft if ArenaNet does this, iam sure its a big hit and definately i would buy the game again 
 thank you for having time reading this and GOD bless to all pc gamers and dont get overdouse yourself 
 and you might die kk until next time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fobia92069
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 6, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Well this game is just like the first chapter although with some additions where u can now move 
 ur henchies around. This game gets boring in the begining because no matter what you have to earn 
 the titles otherwise you just wont get out of the first world. Some people love this game and I 
 include myself but not this chapeter i think it feels rush and the servers lagg alot. Besides the 
 new professions the same layout remains the same that's why im better just buying the upgrades 
 skills for pvp rather than play the night fall again this is just my point of view, some people 
 have reviwed base on just playing in the low levels and cant really tell but if you been playing 
 hardcore this game you will notice what im talking about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fenix_zealot
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 6, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  To the veteran Guild Wars player, Nightfall is a campaign which adds several new interesting and 
 immersive components to the series, especially the Player-Versus-Environment (PvE) aspect. The 
 largest change with Nightfall is the Hero system. Kind of like buffed-up henchmen, your Heroes 
 are fully customizable from the skills they equip, to the armor and weapons they carry, to their 
 secondary profession. On the battlefield, you can order your henchmen around on the minimap, choose 
 their targets, and tell them which skills to use or not to use. There are PvP Arenas solely for 
 Heroes, which pit you and 3 heroes against another player and their 3 heroes.
  
  Some other minor tweaks: i) Inscriptions. Inscriptions go on off-hand items and weapons and give 
 certain buffs. i. e., Don't Call it a Comeback! gives a Energy +7 while Health is below 50% buff. 
 ii) New Salvage System. When you want to salvage something with a rune on it or a weapon with mods 
 on it, you can choose to attempt to salvage off an individual mod (with a 50% chance of destroying 
 the weapon) or salvage the whole thing for materials. If you successfully salvage a mod and the 
 weapon still stays, then you can again attempt to salvage for the other mod or the materials. iii) 
 PvE System. The PvE system has been accelerated, like Factions, to help you get to level 20 faster. 
 The missions also have become more puzzle-like to help make them more intricate. iv) PvP System. 
 The armor you choose and weapons and their mods in PvP can be changed with the touch of a button, 
 but not in battle. Press J in any outpost to bring up an interface which lets you choose new design 
 of armor and color, but also the mods attached to it, and any runes to apply to it.
  
  Nightfall also has an interesting and vast campaign, with new monsters and the whole explorable 
 area of Elona. I greatly recommend this game in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daniel7396
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is hands down the best game in the series. With the addition of the Hero system, destination 
 flags on the compass, combat modes for the heroes, templates for your skills as well as the Heroes 
 skills, two new professions, new skills and a brand new story line the games has claimed its rightful 
 place on the top ten control substance list. These new additions make the game fell like a new 
 beast. It gives the control of the party back to the player. On the graphics side the environments 
 are rich and immersive, the characters look gorgeous and we have actual lip movement on the cut 
 scenes dialogs. The animation can get a little choppy on crowded towns or post but I had seen an 
 increase on the number of districts (servers) preventing the outpost to get too congested. The 
 sound effects on the environments as well as in combat are clear and power full along with the 
 theme music for every level. As always all this comes with the no monthly fee guarantee. I wish 
 to have the time to explain all of you the facts and details of this game, but I can not. Right 
 now I got to play Nightfall. See you all in Elona. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Jugganaut
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 12:45 pm PT
Review:  I own all three Guild Wars games to date, and while I am impressed with Nightfall, in my opinion, 
 it could be better. Nightfall hasn't changed gameplay radically, but it has made a change. The 
 new Hero system has changed PvE and PvP. In PvE, I used to say LFG for (insert quest name/mission) ... Now 
 everyone I see is just grabbing Heroes and running off (in the early areas, at least) . Heroes' 
 Ascent has been changed. I try to find a group, randomly inviting myself into groups with 3 's 
 or 4 's over their heads, and I see Dunkoro , Koss , etc. A lot of it is Heroway. This is NOT a 
 rant, but Nightfall isn't amazing. Storyline, pretty good. Sound and landscapes don't really wow 
 me, pretty much the same. Dervish and Paragon are alright, but I'm still sticking with my Ranger. 
 Guild Wars: Nightfall is an improvement over Factions, but is not as great as the original Prophecies.
 
  
  Agree, disagree, it's all the same to me. This is my opinion. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrog2000
Rating: 9.9
Date: Nov 6, 2006 12:02 pm PT
Review:  This is the game I am playing now and it fills most expectations.
  Personally I am a really big fan of GW and the system that they generated.
  1) you dont get your 
 life sucked away into the game
  2) you can swap out your skills and attribute levels before every mission
  3) dying - we dont 
 need no stinking dying. Just wait for rez.
  
  This game is nice but be ready for a - um - cultural specific experience.
  Not that I mind, I 
 guess I just didnt expect everyone to be ... um... black?
  Profecies = Midieval = white folks
  Factions = Asia = white folks too? (they dont look too asian 
 to me.)
  Nightfall = Africa = black folks.
  I not saying I mind, Im just saying, be ready during character collection to be making a guy who 
 would pull camios in GTA. And your first Hero could be starring in Gonna Get you Sucka II.
  
  Anyway, With the group/hero focus you also get a focus on being a commander and with that you 
 get promoted through soldier ranks with great point rewards (2x15 attribute points) . You also need 
 to put aside the my guy is a God mentality as you will get stomped fast.
  
  The beginning missions are pretty simple and then you need to start putting your thinking cap on. 
 Focus on damage output and you will be KIA. I am an elementalist and tried this and was focussed 
 on and taken out of combat in the first multi aggro hit - almost every time.
  You need to step back and command more in this roll but it adds an element to the game. You aren't 
 the sole focus in the group but a part of the puzzle that makes your team. I like the AI in that 
 reguard. If you send in the group to melee, the agros focus on your healer so be careful. I you 
 start ele-firing your way to DPS stardom, goodbye. Its a smart game in a very simple way. You can 
 still hang out with your real-world family and friends and not feel like your getting behind or 
 losing your cash too. Overall, its exaclty what I was looking for in a game. 50$ spent and I am 
 very satisfied with the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkyHiRider
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2006 2:59 am PT
Review:  Its fun to play this game. The improvements in this GW chapter are enormous includimg AI, heroes, 
 new monsters, quests and a great and main quest that youl have a blast doing with your friends, 
 random people that you meet in a town or just with your personal heroes that u can customize to 
 your liking. The only remaining unsolved difficulty is the trade channel. You always see a large 
 number of people spamming and shouting that they want to sell the best and most uber item that 
 a simple mortal cant live without. There is a predifined channel for this and the spam filter works 
 against these traders but that is simply not enough. Other than that, take and devour the game, 
 you will taste a meal like never before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mkinkade05
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 5, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars Nightfall, the latest entry of ArenaNet's immersive MMORPG, is a challenging and intuitive 
 RPG that is well worth the $50. All aspects of the GUI are relatively similar to the other installations 
 in this series, so I will focus on the new additions. First and foremost, the addition of heroes 
 adds another level of complexity (and cost) to maintaining a PVE character in Nightfall. Heroes 
 are an improvement over classical henchmen , since a player can modify heroes' armor, weapons, 
 skills, and attributes, as well as level them up. Also, the player can control the movement of 
 heroes and henchmen. The heroes' AI is also generally better than that of henchmen. However, the 
 usual glitches in control are evident in-game, as heroes will aggro groups of enemies even when 
 told to gather at a particular point. When all is said in done, the player will find him or herself 
 attached to their heroes, and not just simply because the player has added runes, insignias, specialized 
 weapons, and skills to their heroes. Heroes make advancement in the game much easier, as I have 
 completed about half of the game without having to party up with real people a single time (or 
 maybe it was because I transferred my level 20 monk from Factions....) . Either way, it's easier 
 and much less aggravating with heroes as opposed to henchmen.
  
  Insignias and runes. Insignias are weapon and armor mods which alter the ability of said weapon 
 or armor. These provide much more customization ability to weapons and armor than previously seen 
 in the other Guild Wars installations. However, ArenaNet's system of market-based rune and insignia 
 acquisition is flawed, since after nearly 100 hours of gameplay, runes and other mods for the two 
 new character classes, Paragon and Dervish, are still not available. It seems that certain players 
 abuse this system by spamming the rune traders, and forcing players to buy runes at cutthroat prices. 
 However, there has been a marked increase in rune drops, as well as new types of runes for all 
 character classes (such as runes of vitae and attunement) that add to the customizibility of the 
 game.
  
  The new additions of Paragon and Dervish add another layer of complexity to the types of skills 
 available and the various builds one can make. ArenaNet has picked up on the average player's ignorance 
 of using disenchantment spells, however, since nearly all Dervish abilities are (or rely on) enchantment 
 spells. Dervishes can be taken down easily in-game with a well placed Scourge Enchantment or other 
 such disenchantment ability. That aside, Dervishes have the ability to inflict massive damage, 
 and look cool too. Paragons, on the other hand, rely on shouts and related abilities to provide 
 advantages to party members during combat. When kept away from battle, this class can be the deciding 
 factor in a close battle. Outside of support, however, they are relatively weak when it comes to 
 hand-to-hand combat.
  
  Better yet, there is finally a title-based system in Nightfall that rewards players that log long 
 hours. This may seem contrary to ArenaNet's initial code of ethics , in which it said that the 
 boundary between extreme and casual gamers would be blurred. However, it is necessary to provide 
 incentives to play the PvE portion of the game to completion and enjoy it afterwards. In Factions, 
 once the main storyline was completed, PvE characters had basically nothing to do except farm and 
 capture skills. This gets old after a while. In Nightfall, on the other hand, the Sunspear and 
 Lightbringer title tracks provide good incentives to keep playing the game, thereby increasing 
 the replay value greatly. All in all, this is a great game for those who own the previous two Guild 
 Wars editions. The best of the previous two installations is maintained in Nightfall, and the worst 
 is corrected. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 5, 2006 12:24 am PT
Review:  The latest edition of GW has the best storyline of the series, suitably epic and draws the player 
 into the game. However, it is also the most buggy of the 3 games on release.
  
  Gameplay: The original GW gives the player a deep PvE and PvP gameplay inside an easy to us interface. 
 This one is no different. The addition of the Heroes give you extra tactical control over your 
 fights and it is now easier to control their actions. The Dervish (have not played the Paragon 
 yet) plays very well and have cool armour to boot. The entire game is much longer than Factions, 
 althought I feel that some of the missions are quite drawn out &amp; can be shortened a bit.
  
  Graphics &amp; Sound: Still the same old graphics (not that it was bad in the first place) . 
 The art of Nightfall is pretty good though, the Arabian Nights theme suits this game. Sound as 
 usual is fantastic, with a sweeping score that never gets old.
  
  Peeves: Bugs, bugs &amp; more bugs. One has to wonder if the 6 mths period to rush games out is 
 too short. A bug (it better be a bug Anet!!!) that prevents the player from capping Avatar of Lyssa 
 if the player has done a certain mission. A bug that mixes up your choice when choosing the mesmer 
 &amp; warrior hero. A bug in a certain mission that teleports half the tea, away just when you 
 are about to hit the final boss. Geez Anet, fix them already. But overall, in spite of all teh 
 bugs, it is still pretty easy to recommend this game to all users. After all bugs can be fixed 
 (but pls fix them fast) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andolini81
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 5, 2006 12:18 am PT
Review:  In nightfalls everything is perfect. Great concept great atmosphere breath taking graphics and 
 of course the addicting interaction with other players.
  Just a shame that the only weekness of nightfalls is also routed here.
  Trading, selling buying 
 with other players is just costing nerves.
  You have no chance of CTRL items in the chatlog making it extremely timecosting if you intend to 
 sell multiple items at a time. An auctionhouse wold have given this game a big boost.
  Its no shame to take good features from other games if it fits in your game.
  I am quite sure 
 that the only reason why there is no auctionhouse in guild wars is the fact that it first existed 
 in World of Warcraft.
  Guild Wars is just so different from WoW that no true gamer soul would call it a copy EVEN if there 
 was an auctionhouse in Nightfalls.
  
  I still have hope of the Guild Wars crew fixing this missing feature 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karimbissar1992
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 4, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Introduction
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Where to start? This game excels in all aspects, ArenaNet seem to have amassed all the game faults 
 from the previous two games, fixed them, and added them to a totally new game. Yes, it is a TOTALLY 
 new game, this is Guild Wars at its best ! After the massive disappointed known as Guild Wars 
 Factions, Guild Wars players have finally found their haven; Elona. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Graphics
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Following the Guild Wars tradition the graphics are stunning, its undeniable. For a game this 
 big, the graphics are truly miraculous! Its quite difficult to find any substantial fault; all 
 the weird getting stuck in a hill glitches have magically disappeared, and the occasional getting 
 stuck is easily fixed by typing /stuck. What else could we hope for? A new interface graces our 
 screen, with editable damage font sizes, a useful damage history which tells you what skills have 
 damaged you recently and a re-vamped map, complete with henchmen controls ! 9.5/10
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Sound
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Why on earth (or any other planet you care to name) did Jeremy Soul win the MTV Game Music Awards 
 for his work on the Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion? It was nowhere near as good as the music in Guild 
 Wars Prophecies! Cant you still remember the beautiful score used in pre-searing Ascalon? Well, 
 Jeremy Soule certainly put his soul in Nightfall because the music is magnificent; it really captures 
 the ambience and thrusts you into the North-African themed Elona. If only the music was more varied, 
 there not very many tracks in the game Is this a Guild Wars tradition too? 8.7/10 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Game Play
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The biggest improvement is here. Aside from the interface, there have been tons of improvements 
 here. Most notably the addition of heroes; compute controlled character which are almost fully 
 customizable, everything from skills to equipment can be changed to suit your needs. Heroes will 
 also have every skill you have unlocked on your account and may switch to any secondary profession 
 you desire sans hassle. Heroes can also make use of the templates you save, templates are builds 
 that you save in game through the skills and attributes window. Templates will be saved as .txt 
 files in your Guild Wars folder so you can send them to your friends.
  You will also notice that some graphical aspects of the game enhance game play. The fighting looks 
 much smoother now that the updates have taken place, the dervish for example will fight spinning 
 his scythe around in a truly dance-like way, sending sheer joy through you as you see him cutting 
 through flesh in a 360 degree fury. Monsters will not drop down dead the second they reach zero 
 health, instead they will die in varied ways, sometimes clawing at you before falling gracefully 
 to the floor, other times, clutching the air as they breath their last breath. 9.4/10 --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Storyline
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  I would never have expected to even write about storyline in a Guild Wars game. The storyline 
 is usually quite uninteresting, in Nightfall, however, the story plays a big role. Unorthodoxly, 
 the Elonan story is linked to Prophecies AND Factions. I will not specify how as this would be 
 a spoiler. Be warned, the story is so good it actually makes you not skip cut scenes, shocking 
 but true Cut scenes now have people actually talking and moving their mouths instead of the boring 
 Muppet show from previous games. 9.0/10 -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Tilt
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  A must buy! The mistakes are too few to count for more than 0.4 and the Elona is massive! Seriously! 
 Istan itself is many times bigger than Shing Jea Island, although it seems small when looking at 
 the map. Dont be fooled, Guild Wars Nightfall is The Game! ArenaNet have done it again! World 
 of Warcraft has finally been beaten. Buy Nightfall, end Elonas suffering and claim The Throne 
 of Secrets! 10/10
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 Down With Abbadon !
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TehName
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2006 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Okay. I personally have all three Guild Wars games. I enjoyed the first and second, but this is 
 by far the best. Don't mistake me as a fanboy , I have my rants about the game.
  
  Gameplay : 9/10
  The gameplay is an improvement on the other two games in most cases, but there 
 are some problems. First of all, the hero system. Heros are customizable henchmen for you to use. 
 You may be thinking ; great, no more PUGs (Pick up Groups) but you know, the heros get old - quick. 
 On the other hand, you will come up against numerous creatures and enemys. On the fourth mission 
 you come up against a massive army, and have plenty of allies.
  
  If you want Guild Wars to be more fun - try joining a large and active guild. You can easily find 
 them advertising around places like Kamadan. By joining a guild you will have people to talk to 
 and ask for mission help - the game is MUCH more fun when playing with people rather than heros.
 
  
  The game is quite lengthy, you have 20 missions seperated by quests (the quests can be boring at 
 times, however) . There is a reward for your 'ranking' on each mission - Standard, Expert and Masters. 
 If you obtain Masters on all of the missions you will recieve a title (and bragging rights that 
 you beat the game :P) The pvp in it is endless as new ranks are constantly being added.
  
  The story, in my opinion, is quite easy to follow and makes you want to find out more. At the end 
 of every mission there's a cliffhanger which wants to make you rush through the next one to see 
 what happens. There's also lots of humor in the game, and your heros will randomly mutter things 
 while you are adventuring. There's also joke quests and items. The best being Drakes on a Plain 
 with the reward Banana Scythe (which instead of a blade, has a peeled banana)
  
  Unfortunately the PVP (player-versus-player) additions are not up to scratch in Nightfall. Not 
 being much of a PVPer I don't have much to say about this, I'm sure some people would however. 
 You still get the old pvp modes, and access to the Battle Isles, which is great.
  
  Graphics : 8/10
  When Guild Wars was first released the graphics are amazing. Now they are slightly 
 mediocre compared to other games such as Dark Messiah. Though the graphics are still beautiful 
 to look at.
  
  There's numerous different places to explore, ranging from dry desert wastelands to glorious oasis. 
 It looks like ArenaNet really did take their time with this one, as everything is detailed. Also 
 the mouths of NPCs and your character now move in cutscenes to the speech - a much requested add-on.
 
  
  Sound : 9/10
  The sound is composed by Jeremy Soule and quite frankly, beauitful is an understatement. There 
 now seems to be 'music to match the event'. The music is calm when you're exploring jungles, but 
 when you're ambushed by Skree Harpies the pace is quickened and becomes a battle anthem. There 
 are slashes, slices, roars and crys while battling to add to the atmosphere.
  
  Value : 10/10
  An online MMORPG (okay it's more of a CORPG) with no monthly fees? Amazing. Especially 
 at the quality of this game. There's a new game every 6 months which you can choose to buy.
  
  So to round my first review off, Guild Wars : Nightfall is one of the best online games out 
 there. You may love it, you may hate it. The only way to find out is to go out and buy it ;)
  
  PROS :
  -Addictive, lengthy storyline.
  -Fast paced, action packed gameplay.
  -2 new 
 classes, Dervish and Paragon, both fun to play and play with.
  -Customizable Hero henchmen, can be used for when there's not many people on the server.
  -Unlimited 
 pvp play.
  
  CONS : -Graphics starting to become slightly outdated.
  -Adventuring with Heros can become slightly repetetive at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwlettsome
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 3, 2006 10:58 am PT
Review:  In a word, yes! Nightfall is a very good game with a lot of content. Here's a couple of things 
 you should take into consideration before buying. First, this game is much more oriented to providing 
 new player vs. environment (PvE) content. So if you are looking for a lot of new player vs. player 
 (PvP) experiences it is unlikely that you will find them here.
  
  Nightfall does offer a wealth of new stuff for PvE players to enjoy. You have a large amount of 
 territory to explore, an extensive list of optional and required quests to undertake, new armor 
 and skills to equip on your characters and the option to unlock and party with NPC's called hero's. 
 The previous NPC system of henchmen is still in place as well. Hero's and henchmen still are not 
 as good as experienced human players but they do allow more flexibility in forming parties for 
 cooperative missions and quests. You can choose to include no other real players in your party 
 if you prefer but the further you get into the game the harder it is to complete tasks without 
 the assistance of other players. But for those who have found it difficult in the past to form 
 up a complete party of 6-12 other competent players with the right classes/skills the hero and 
 henchmen AI improvements provide at least a viable back up option where none existed previously.
 
  
  Other improvements over previous chapters of Guild Wars includes an improved skill management interface 
 which makes it more convenient to swap skills out for your character or hero's and the ability 
 to save character builds . So if you have a ranger that sometimes needs to set traps sometimes 
 and other times needs to have a lot of spell interrupt skills you can quickly change the set up 
 of your character with a couple of mouse clicks instead of hunting through skill lists and resetting 
 attribute points. In addition the pacing of this game seems to be improved over the rushed pacing 
 that was evident in Factions. This is not to say that you cannot play through Nightfall fairly 
 quickly if you want to skip most or all of the optional quests but with the story line spread out 
 over 20 main missions (plus the primary quest required to get to those missions) the player has 
 a better chance to feel pulled along by the game vs pushed to the end.
  
  Overall highly recommended for fans of the previous games and newcomers to Guild Wars that are 
 not sure which chapter to start with. Also recommended for RPG fans in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodreaverSlut
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Yes it has been 6 months since Factions released and that means??? Yep, another episode in the 
 saga called Guild Wars. So here as a review from a long time player of guild wars (since WPE of 
 october) .
  
  The campaign:
  Normally i dont PvE cause i just dont like it, but this time they make a big leap forward. With 
 a interactive story based on some of your decisions and a interresting story Guild Wars is finally 
 heading in the right direction PvE wise. The campaign lasts pretty long, cant give you exact hours 
 since im have not even finished it yet, but have enough experience to say: The PvE is finally worth 
 playing.
  
  The game introduces 2 new classes which are already implemented in many many GvG (guild vs guild, 
 a player vs player battle) builds and seem quite effective. The 2 classes are really unique in 
 the GW (Guild Wars) universe and play very differently from the existing professions (or classes) .
 
  
  With the expansion (actually a standalone game) you get another set of 350-ish skills for the 8 
 already existing professions, giving lots of new options for players doing both PvE and PvP.
  
  The graphics have gotten a update aswell, though it's not something really special... it's 
 still... Guild Wars! Which is a good thing in my opinion.
  
  There arent that many bugs yet, but there are some imbalances in skills. Unfortunaly, Arenanet 
 decided to launch a tournament (fun season) right after the launch, this means they cant just balance 
 skills because that would be unfair for a lot of guilds that are doing good now.
  
  The sound is a good as always nothing to complain about.
  
  The value of this game is absolutely 
 great, you can play through PvE with 10 different professions that play totally different and experience 
 a different story. After PvE there is still PvP, they added Hero battles this time which are 1on1 
 battles that include the Heroes that you get during PvE (so it's 4v4, 1 player and 3 controlable 
 henchmen ) , this is very challanging and fun to do. The same goes for the already existing PvP, 
 random arena's, team arena's, Hall of Heroes (Heroes Ascent) and GvG are all heavily influenced 
 by this chapter and all in a good way.
  
  Conclusion:
  If you already play GW, then Nightfall is a no-brainer... i think it's the best saga to date (that 
 doesnt mean a higher rating, since graphics are the same etc) . If you havent played GW yet, it 
 might be a strange game to get into, because (like factions) the start is pretty fast (though slower 
 then factions) . If you really want to enjoy GW to it's maximum, you should start to play Prophecies 
 (GW original campaign) and Nightfall. Factions is also a great title, but not as engaging as Prophecies 
 and Nightfall and had less of an impact on the overall game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CaramonGr
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 2, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  I'm player of GW since April 2004. Nightfall is a very nice game with lots of new staff to explore 
 and learn. Graphics, sounds gameplay remains the same to me as previous ones.
  The only thing I didn't like it, is that the game feels like single player with the addition of 
 Heroes. Now in outposts almost everyone has a hero with him and in later stages in the worst case 
 you play with your friend having both 4 heroes, at a party of 8 people.
  I' m gonna miss situations with 7 real players behind each nickname.
  
  The good is that sometimes 
 heroes are better than a newbie player (not noob) and they are not gonna d/c or leave the party.
 
  
  Apart from that the game is much better than factions but not better than Prophecies (because its 
 smaller) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazilla
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 2, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  The addition of Nightfall to the Guild Wars family of games is by far the most intriguing of the 
 series from a playing and storyline standpoint. There are so many welcome changes; from the new 
 skill templates, to the bonus that is having customizable henchmen called, heroes. You can now 
 save your skill bar to a skill template as well. Heroes are basically henchmen that you can customize 
 down to the last detail. There are 14 in all to choose from. Whatever skills you have unlocked 
 on any character you might have, your heroes can use them. Your heroes can also use all of the 
 weapons that you have accquired for that specific character. This makes the gaming process much 
 simpler, i. e. waiting to get in a group for a mission is something you don't have to do anymore. 
 Just add the maximum count of three heroes to your party and add some henchmen and you can do any 
 quest or mission in the game. If you like going out to quest with real players that option is still 
 there.
  The storyline in Nightfall is exceedingly better than its' predecessors. From the voice acting 
 to funny situations, even the cutscenes, have a polish that the series was definitely lacking. 
 These games have always been solid in their own right, but Nightfall seems to have taken some of 
 the rough edges off and put on a glossy shine. The graphics in Nightfall are great. The viewing 
 distance seems to be further in terms of the content you can see from your player's position. The 
 music really fits the African themed continent of Elona very well. Composer Jeremy Soule who won 
 an award for his work in Oblivion, is at his best in this game (He has done all 3 scores for the 
 GW series.) The maps have gotten bigger and there doesn't seem to be as much wasted space as there 
 was in the other games. There are so many superlatives I could use in my appreciation of what this 
 game is, but I think that I will simply describe it as, A work of art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chipnut
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 8, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  So I've logged quite a bit of time into the campaign, Played trough the island of istan with a 
 dervish, been trough the campaign with my favorite Elementalist and so far here's what i think:
 
  
  (abbv.
  NF= Nightfall
  FC= Factions
  PR= Propehcies)
  
  Main story: In my opinion NF has one of the more cinematic storyline, I actually care about the 
 story; FC's was just lame, characters were annoying i. e. togo, and they could've done so much more 
 with the Luxons and Kurzicks, instead we got more kainaeg (ick) . There are some slow points in 
 NF which was annoying cause i wanted to progress. The scenery is alright, too much influence from 
 Africa in the begining though, (mud, dirt, rocks.)
  
  Heros: I like the idea, they are nice. Yet I don't really feeling like putting all my time into 
 them, I think it was a little overkill. Especially since you have to get their items and set their 
 skills. Yes they make the game less social, but when i tought about it, there 3 continets, and 
 a total of around 60 missions, this really spreads out the population, that's why i think they 
 we added. But they're sure to be the topic of much contreversity
  -On one hand: They are fun, I like being able to manage my party like this, managed things to what 
 i need. I now have the option to set up with these guys instead of waiting for a group. Way better 
 then henchmen. Nice to have when im just doing quests
  -On the other: I don't want to Outfit 4 Characters at once, mainly the fact you have to get their 
 weapons for each hero on each character, thats a lot of friggin weapons to find. They can't use 
 complex builds well, No one really needs them, if you ask me they should limit them more 3 total 
 (5 human + 3 Heros) not 3 per person (2 human + 6 heros) . Item addition: Insignia's, new runes 
 and upgrades.
  Insignias, don't like them right now, way too hard to find, you have to buy them from trader, armor 
 no longer comes with them, come on at least gimme the option to pay for one when i make my damn 
 armor. I'm really dissatisfied with the art choices, 3 lame ones, 3 Ascended at higher price levels 
 WTF! lame. Inscriptions &amp; new upgrades, no complaints here, makes it more fun for me collecting 
 the pieces insteads of buying the weapon with mods I wanted.
  
  New Professions &amp; skills:
  Skills don't seem to be as important to me this time around, there 
 is just getting to be too many. Besides my PR and FC are perfect so why change them. As for the 
 Dervish and Paragon, I like them, they're pretty fun they play and they work really well with the 
 other classes, better then the Assassin and Ritualist did. But the 2 new seem to have less of an 
 idenity, defined more by what types of skills they use, Shout &amp; Enchantments, rather then what 
 the skills themselves do.
  
  Pvp: Haven't hero battled much, why fight 1 guy and 3 computers when theres Random areas which 
 i find way more. Honestly hero battles and the heros in ab, arent as fun as the other modes.
  
  Overall:
  -It's new content, no real problem there.
  -The PvE is more like PR then FC which 
 is good. -Hero's will be heavily debated, but they really help. GLF MONK x 50times, GLF 2 more, 
 NO MORE DERVISHES . -The new classes are really fun to play as, I just hope the gain more of an 
 idenity.
  -New items and skills abound
  -Heros do not belong in AB
  -I truly do believe that everything Anet has done has had the player's in mind, just remeber there 
 a new company so somthimes things get f'ed up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baselerd
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 1, 2006 9:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is easily the best Guild Wars title so far. If you push back all the online MMO flame 
 wars and look at it as a game, it becomes clear that this game is really a great quality title.
 
  
  The gameplay is not substantially different from the last two. The new spells and classes will 
 surely broaden the spectrum of the PvP realm, although the classes don't seem to be as fundamental 
 as the core 6. Same thing with factions, although the game doesnt seem to suffer as much from the 
 new classes. There is definitely a Dervish overpopulation in Elona right now, but they are actually 
 an asset to a PvE team, unlike (usually) the assassins in Factions. The hero battles are fun, but 
 don't compare to the PvP types allready implemented thus far. However, the hero system (the major 
 innovation in this) I believe is doing more harm than good, since many people simply use NPC's 
 through the campaign. It is by no means hard to find groups, but you will encounter less full groups 
 of humans.
  
  The graphics are significantly improved over the previous games, although the effects may be subtle. 
 They added numerous shader technologies, such as environmental lighting, some bump mapping, and 
 better bloom and distortion effects. Also, the environments are alot more detailed, especially 
 the amount of vegetation. The world is beautiful, and varied enough to keep things interesting. 
 The later areas in the game simply look hellish and the creature designs range from generic (more 
 insect enemies) to awesome hellish demons.
  
  The sound is good, but not fantastic. The music and sound effects equip the game very well, however 
 there are no songs in this game that I imagine people will be humming in their heads or listening 
 to for leisure listening. The sound effects are great; they have a powerful sound to them which 
 brings a intense adrenaline packed feel to the combat. Some of the enemy roars will even surprise 
 you if you aren't paying attention, and sound downright scary.
  
  The high point of this game for people who allready own previous titles would definitely be the 
 campaign. The story is amazing, unlike the previous two installments. The campaign is extremely 
 fun to play through, and takes quite a while (40-50 hours) . The campaign in this game is as fun 
 as many single player rpg's, if not better. I cannot stress how much better the content and story 
 of this game is than the previous two. If you do not own Guild Wars or Factions, then the only 
 thing that should stop you from buying this is if you don't have the cash, because not only will 
 you get an amazing campaign and world packed with content, but you will have access to the shared 
 PvP content of the previous titles, which is even more amazing than the campaign (and highly competetive) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Not-Quite-Dumb
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 26, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  OK I've been playing the Guild Wars games since the first game was released and have hooked several 
 of my friends as well as myself and my older brother. Anyway Nightfall's biggest new feature is 
 the Heroes that join you in your adventure. These heroes are a zillion times smarter then the henchmen 
 you can hire in the previous games, and really boosts the gameplay value of the series. For example 
 you decide to play as an Elementalist (Mage) and you have 3 slots for heroes to bring along with 
 you. This is awesome because instead of having all the enemies swarm you and bring you down faster 
 than you can blink, you can just bring along a Warrior hero, a Dervish hero, and maybe a Monk hero 
 for good measure. That way, the Warrior and Dervish (both melee classes in Guild Wars) can charge 
 in and hold the enemies at bay while you nuke them with Fireballs or even a Meteor Shower, whatever 
 you prefer, while your Monk keeps the hard-working melee characters alive. This is one of many 
 examples in Guild Wars, and the heroes work great with any profession, because there is at least 
 one hero of every profession in Guild Wars history. Aside from that there is an amazing storyline 
 and the constant twists and turns make you unsure of what is going to happen next, and the great 
 new characters add to it all to make this one of the top PC games of them all. There is an amazing 
 amount of content in this game alone and if you have Factions of the original Guild Wars the possibilities 
 seem endless. This game deserves an Editors Choice, and mabye even the Game of the Year title for 
 its intriguing gameplay and awesome playability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hawkeye_89
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 1, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  i have been playing guild wars since the first relase of guild wars back in 2004! Guild wars Nightfall 
 is in my opinion a great game its the 3rd chapter of the game so far and is just an awsome game 
 to play they have done a good job on the 2 new classes and the way they have added to the pvp side 
 of the game is insane so ya if u like to do pvp then u will luv this game also the pve is really 
 good as well and the graphics well they r awsome better then WoW! lmao!!! so ya check it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadly_Fatalis
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2006 1:10 pm PT
Review:  This is most defininatly the best game in the guild wars series. The gameplay is immersive, you 
 can play for hundredres of hours and possibly not even scratch the main story. it is a very fun 
 game that i could play forever. This game blows away the competition into the dust. The hero system 
 works wonders, set up your hero to do whatever you want it to do and just help it out a few times 
 and there instantly smart. Get a good guild and you have set yourself. What I don't recommend is 
 that you play the game alone. This is an MMORPG try and play with other people this is almost half 
 the game. The only thing that I think is a minor downside is the people. Some people are jerks 
 but if you can find a good guild you shouldn't have to deal with these guys and you will have a 
 blast. As long as you have a nice handle on Guild Wars you will LOVE this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danyjr
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 31, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8
  The new chapter of Guild Wars offers a new system called Hero System . You meet these hero in the 
 game story and they join your brethren whenever you want. They also gain level, armor, experience 
 and new skills. You can have complete control over these henchmen in the game, which adds a little 
 big RTS spice to Guild Wars, something revolutionary to bring to an RPG game, although if you leave 
 the henchmen, they perform effectively on their own, using the right skills at the right time.
 
  Guild Wars Nightfall brings back the Mission + Bonus type of gameplay back to the game. Unlike 
 Factions, where mission completion was time-based, Nightfall offers the old exciting Bonuses regardless 
 of time on most of the missions.
  Other than these, Nightfall introduces two new professions to GW franchise. Paragon and Dervish. 
 I've recently completed the campaign playing a Paragon/ Monk. Paragons are very exciting support 
 class with the ability to add very cool enchantments, chants and heals, while doing damage by throwing 
 their spears at the same time. And Dervishes are a type of Mel&eacute; e Area of Effect class with 
 access to a number of very nice healing spells. Guild Wars Nightfall also has all the 6 core professions: 
 Elementalist, Mesmer, Ranger, Monk, Warrior, and Necromancer. However, it doesn't give you access 
 to making Assassins or Ritualists. Fore more information please visit my Factions review: http://uk. gamespot. com/pc/rpg/guildwarsfactions/player_review. html? id=360625
 
  
  Graphics: 9
  The land of Elona is beautifully crafted and very diverse. While in Cantha you felt trapped between 
 layers of a huge city, Elona makes everything wide. You can roam wherever you want, in the water, 
 in the tropical jungles or on the dry desert. The graphics engine hasn't changed since the first 
 campaign, but it still surpasses most of the famous MMO's in the market when graphics is concerned.
 
  
  Sound: 9
  The music is very great. Also the new voice acting (also with moving lips) are amazing. I gave 
 it a 9 = great, since the music wasn't Jeremy -Soul-great (otherwise it'd be a 10) , but the music 
 of Guild Wars is one of the aspects that this game is the best at. Also the sound effects support 
 5.1 speaker system and you can really feel you are in Elona while playing the game.
  
  Value: 8
  I bought this game for &pound;17.99 on the day it was released from PLAY. com Not a 
 big deal at all, since most of the games cost you more than that. Also it doesn't have a monthly 
 subscription fee to pay.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 8
  Nightfall is great. It is arguably the best GW chapter I've ever played (yes, even better than 
 Prophecies) . You don't gain XP very fast like Factions, and it doesn't kill you to get to a higher 
 level like Prophecies. The new content, the Hero System, the new professions and skills are great 
 additions to Guild Wars franchise. Just when people were starting to get worried about the destiny 
 of Guild Wars, ArenaNet showed that they're great game designers and can provide us with more months 
 of enjoyment to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vanderspeal
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2006 8:58 pm PT
Review:  My guild wars world is expanding. Infact I dont even have time to see and do it all. But thats just 
 fine. What I love most about this game in general is that I can continue my questing in both tyria 
 and cantha. Elona is amazing. The improvments are great. This is a must have for GW veterans as well 
 as new players. I will be spending alot of time in elona. But that doesnt mean I will forsake the 
 other two contenents. Infact I love jet setting around the various guild wars worlds. Hunting skills, finding 
 rare items and weapons. Seeing new things. And visiting old favorites. I really love the fact that 
 although new adventures will come its not a replacement for my old game at all. Infact it just makes 
 factions a propheces even better. Complementing the game as a whole. I think the arrival of nightfall 
 is not only a great new game with amazing well just about everything. Its a new place for my characters 
 old and new to go. And my new characters still have tyria and cantha to look forward to. This great 
 new addition just adds to the winning formula even more. And I encourage any new players of nightfall 
 to enjoy the preveous games as well because it all just adds to your evergrowing guild wars universe. If 
 you love games. Its hard not to love this series.
  I am not shure why it got such a dissmal Official review from gamespot
  But reading it over a 
 few times it sounds like the reviewer has little or no experience with this series and sounds a 
 little bias. But hey thats just my opinion!.
  As well what is everyones problem with factions. I thought it was great!. Whenever i go to cantha 
 it is packed so it really cant be that bad now people. But if they didnt have something to whine 
 about some of these people would have nothing at all!.. lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXRKOXx
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2006 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Being a long time player of Guild Wars, I must say that this is THE BEST addition to the game so 
 far. I was a big fan of Factions, loved both Ritualist and Assasin, but something about the Paragon's 
 and Dervish help Nightfall transcend far beyond its predecessors. Elona is done in great detail, 
 with some awesome new cities and enemies. Only problem I have is a lack of good animal choice if 
 you are a Ranger, or any type of ranger second job, but thats a MINOR problem. Play Guild Wars 
 Nightfall! Completely worth it! There is no better time to get on an immerse yourself into this 
 great world...
  
  And, its free... nothing wrong with that! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nofearkid009
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2006 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Alright, My second review... This game is so far the most innovative and most enjoyable to play 
 in the Guild Wars series. The new Heros system is fun to play around with and really scratches 
 the endless amount of time spent of saying GLF MONK!!! Yea Guild Wars, like all RPG'S, is challenging, 
 but who cares I like a challenge now and then. What about you? Guild wars is one of the few RPG'S 
 out there that doesn't have you paying to play monthly and is one of the better MMO'S out there. 
 So...
  
  JUMP IN NOW, THERE'S NO BETTER TIME TO START PLAYING GUILD WARS!!!
  
  (Did I mention MMO+0 DOLLARS A MONTH=INSTANT FUN!!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flaak_monkey
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 30, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  The best GW has to offer yet. Beautiful, breathtaking, challenging, and more fun then before. I 
 was not expected such a change from Factions of this proportion. While Prophecies was semi-nuked 
 per se, Nightfall kicks all the ass in the MMO world. with two new amazing and unique classes, 
 and a exotic and more hectic and exciting new world, this expansion is like Game of the year material. 
 I mean they even have Ridable WURMS!! Truley ANET you have blessed us instead of annoy us. The 
 missions are more fun and exciting, heroes add a new level of game play. No need for henchies much 
 anymore except to fill space once in awhile. The new PvP, which allows you and your heroes vs another 
 opponent and there heroes awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordDeArnise
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  As a player who has followed the world of Guild Wars since the global preview of its Flameseeker 
 Prophecies campaign in November 2004, and have gone through it and its second campaign, Factions, 
 there was alot riding on the line for NCSoft &amp; Arenanet's third campaign for the world of Guild 
 Wars. Guild Wars continue to bring in the idea of a Player v. Environment and a PvP aspect of online 
 action RPG with its free online play. While Factions was more oriented for PvP, Guild Wars Nightfall 
 brings in an immense and expansive PvE with two new classes to worry about when it comes to PvP.
 
  
  Basically, in Guild Wars Nightfall, there is a darkness brewing in the desert realms of Elona. 
 Your new characters for this campaign become a part of the Sunspears, a band of soldiers who strive 
 to protect Elona. However, adventurers originating from the Prophecies realm of Tyria, and the 
 Factions realm of Cantha are not left out in the sands, as they can travel to Elona and aid in 
 the coming conflict. While I won't delve into the full details of it to minimize the risk of spoiling 
 such a rich and exciting campaign story, I will say that it does have its twists and turns.
  
  Although you won't see Elonian Assassins and Ritualists in Nightfall, there are two new classes 
 to try out, and both, based on recent gameplay, are very useful in both PvE &amp; PvP. The first 
 of these new classes is the Paragon. These particular Sunspear soldiers specialize in throwing 
 spears and using battle shouts and chants to aid allies. The other new class for Nightfall is the 
 Dervish. These hooded warriors wield two-handed scythes (by default) , and can hit up to three foes 
 in one scythe attack simultaneously. They can also use AoE attacks and, if they have the skills, 
 transform temporarily into an avatar of one of the five deities of Guild Wars. Both classes looked 
 very promising in PvP &amp; PvE during the Nightfall preview events prior to release, and have 
 delivered.
  
  Many players have been discouraged some by the lack of discipline in AI-controlled henchmen. Nightfall's 
 answer: bring in controllable heroes and a new command system. Heroes are a cross between player-controlled 
 characters and henchmen. Unlike henchmen, these heroes can be customized in their builds and equipment 
 to fit the needs of the individual player. Players can use up to 3 heroes, and certain heroes are 
 necessary to do some of the various quests and missions. But how do you manage heroes and henchmen? 
 With the new command system, you can direct them to a certain spot to plan out battle strategies. 
 Sometimes, you'll want to keep all of them at a killzone while you lure and peel off enemy groups. 
 Other times, you'll want to put heroes at certain spots to plan out other attack strategies.
  
  The PvP aspect pretty much remains the same, although there are some new arenas to battle in, 
 and some new guild halls for guild leaders and officers to look at. So far, it's been a tug-of-war 
 between European (Australia &amp; New Zealand probably included) and North/South American guilds 
 and teams in Heroes' Ascent, although there are some Korean teams that have brought favor to Korea, 
 but barely noticeable at this time. While there hasn't been much noticeable improvement in the 
 graphics department, you will find that the mouths move in the Nightfall cinematics, a big improvement 
 from previous campaigns. The audio is great too, as Jeremy Soule &amp; Co. brings a North African/Arabic 
 theme of music to Nightfall.
  
  Technically, there are a few glitches in the game at this time, and at times, can be very frustrating. 
 Sometimes, the people you escort block your path, and either you or your heroes and henchmen can't 
 move too. Some areas are very laggy too, although it is far from unexpected since most major cities 
 and outposts, so far, have a large number of players on.
  
  In all, Guild Wars Nightfall will bring back some old players who loved Prophecies but hated Factions, 
 as well as some new players. With its new theme, new features, and a couple of new classes to put 
 into the heat of battle, this game can be classified as a classic for its kind of online RPG. While 
 the world of Guild Wars is still dwarfed by the grinder titan that is World of WarCraft, with its 
 free online play, Nightfall will draw in its share of over 2 million players... and growing.
  
  -- FIND THIS PLAYER IN-GAME (Listed at time of review) --
  
  * Elonians *
  The Saharan 
 Maiden ( Paragon/Ranger )
  Sayyida Nehvna ( Ranger/Monk )
  
  * Tyrians *
  The Emerald Maiden ( Ranger/Monk )
  Morrighan Blackrose ( Necromancer/Monk )
  Scarlette Sylvanas 
 ( Mesmer/Monk )
  
  * Canthans *
  Chrysthanthemum Lin ( Ritualist/Monk )
  Shinzuma Takara ( Warrior/Monk )
  Kimura Hisante ( Elementalist/Mesmer ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oran_brave
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 30, 2006 11:36 am PT
Review:  Nightfall showcases distinct North African influences, obvious in models, clothes and even the 
 new PvP random arenas I fought in. One particular arena had African influenced masks, artwork and 
 other items with similar styles throughout the map. I noticed the improved quality of the new armor 
 textures. Shall we say, the first generation Warrior armor looks like filthy rags compared to the 
 glamorous shiny and over detailed chain mail the Paragons wear. There are three available combos 
 for each the Dervish and the Paragon to illustrate the various possibilities of matching with the 
 existing professions: Melandrus Prophet (D/Me) , Whirling Dervish (D/W) , Shadow Reaper (A/D) , Battle 
 Commander (P/Rt) , Centurion (P/W) , and Pack Hunter (R/P) . After all, the secondary profession is 
 of little concern once you start a PvP character during this event. NCSoft made it so that one 
 could freely change secondary class, without the usual, time consuming, run-around specific to 
 regular gameplay. There was a problem though. If you pick either Paragon or Dervish as secondary 
 professions, youll find yourself having no skills to choose from. Skills are usually gained through 
 a series of quests during campaign play. Without such a Nightfall campaign available, the only 
 way to get skills is by unlocking them from the Temple Of Balthazars priests, for heavy faction 
 fees. Well, I guess that was intended all along since the developers wouldnt like to reveal too 
 much anyway. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: me2u2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 30, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  GW Nightfall put GW back on my PC! Honestly, I picked up my copy of Nightfall because the WoW expansion 
 was pushed back, and NWN2 hasn't been released yet... I was looking for something to play, so I 
 picked up Nightfall after seeing that at least a few people were enjoying the latest release to 
 GW. I was able to easily train up, get a group, and then battle and quest.
  
  The addition of Heroes to the quest/team system is a welcome addition for players looking for more 
 solo-style play, but honestly, I find grouping to be very easy and a lot of fun with the GW community.
 
  
  I believe Nightfall is exactly what GW needed! It's fun, immersive, and it has no monthly maintenence 
 costs... Nightfall is a great reason to give GW a try! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zlobber
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2006 8:38 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars Nightfall is one of the best games I've ever played. I've been fan of Guild Wars from 
 the day it was released and played it 18 months almost everyday. The thing that hooked me at the 
 beginning was the complex story line, the wonderful skill system and after the first month the 
 Player versus Player combat system. The new release of the game brings this another level up. The 
 wonderfull and intense story line and the new hero mode makes the game much more better than the 
 previous two parts. The only bad thing about Nightfall is that it does not have 6 characters like 
 the first part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slyydrr
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 30, 2006 8:16 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying this: I started my venture into the MMO world with WoW. I played it 
 night and day for about 3 months straight. I was hooked. After about 3 months though, I think I 
 had a revelation. I wasn't satisfied with the fact that PvP battles were going to be more highly 
 based on your armor rather than your knowledge of the character's skillset. I wasn't thrilled with 
 the countless hours that were required to even have a chance to fight an end boss, hoping that 
 something for your class would drop, and then hoping that there wasn't another person in your raid 
 that would have first dibs.
  
  After WoW, I played a few other MMOs for a month or so; City of Heroes, Everquest 2, and then I 
 tried GW: Prophecies. I think at this point, I was frustrated in general with MMOs altogether that 
 I didn't really give GW: Prophecies a real chance. Yes I enjoyed it, but my thoughts of WoW seemed 
 to overshadow the enjoyment. I stopped playing MMOs for about 12 months, and just recently got 
 back into the scene, started up Prophecies again.
  
  I was immediately re-captivated by everything Prophecies has to offer. The environment is truly 
 beautiful to just look at. The storyline is enjoyable. I have a few minor gripes with the gameplay 
 (no jumping... no running off cliffs) , but aside from those few minor gripes, it is wonderful.
 
  
  Beyond that, the true enjoyment of the game is the opposite of what turned me away from WoW. Your 
 progression through the game, and into PvP isn't based entirely on how many raids you've gone through 
 and how many nice sets you've completed. You're limited to 8 skills to use. Knowledge of your class, 
 and how to counter-attack a class you're fighting reigns supreme. Sure this is true with every 
 game to an extent, but I believe that the Guild Wars series truly takes this to the next level.
 
  
  Guild Wars: Nightfall is a wonderful continuation of the campaign. I'm already completely immersed 
 in the new story. The gameplay is not only the same, but there have been improvements that were 
 made for Nightfall that have been applied retroactively to the previous releases as well. The heroes 
 really feel like customizable henchmen, which I enjoy. The graphics and scenery is wonderful as 
 usual, and the sound is perfect. I think my interpretation of great sound for a videogame is when 
 you just don't notice it -- Not because it's not worth noticing, but because it just seems to melt 
 seamlessly into the actual gameplay that you treat it all as one.
  
  All that being said, it would be almost rhetorical to ask if this game is for everyone. Obviously 
 it's not, and it's not your typical MMO either. Obviously it's more of a diablo-style game, where 
 the towns are the common places, and everything beyond that is instanced. It doesn't do it for 
 everyone, but for me, it's not only great, it's ideal. To me, this is the epitome of what an MMO 
 should be. Hats off to you Guild Wars, another wonderful addition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxkgnb
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2009 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Nightfall is just about perfect. For those who have played Prophecies and Factions, Nightfall will 
 meet your expectations. Again, great graphics, performance and outstanding soundtrack will leave 
 you wanting more in the series. Nightfall has a good length to it as well as some nice improvements 
 in the AI dept. The hero addition was an excellent idea and adds a lot to the game play. Nice to 
 be able to control a couple more characters. Tons of skills and creatures to fight, fun quests 
 as well. If your a GW fan you love it, if your not, you'll see what is so great about the series. 
 Comparing this to other titles recently released, this is probably the most complete game, as well 
 as, the best of this type. With free online play, if your a gamer that loves MMOs, RPG etc. You 
 can't afford to pass it up with what's out there. Peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eru_illuv
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 30, 2006 12:50 am PT
Review:  What can I say, another great Guild Wars from Arenanet. Great all around game, with only one major 
 flaw, I think that Arenanet has ruined the simplicity of the game by adding the heroes. Its really 
 confusing now, too much multitasking (which I suck at) , otherwise I think this game is so much 
 better from WoW by the simply fact that its FREE, and the in game events like Halloween (especially 
 Mad King Thorn) . Another great fact is that, since the game is actually almost defeat able Arenanet 
 has promised to release an expansion every 2 quarters (bi-early) !
  
  Go to http://gw. gamewikis. org/wiki/Main_Page, wiki on GUILD WARS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oooy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 29, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  I was one of the first to open the servers back in May 2005.
  GW gameplay system impressed me, and I think its the best PC game I have ever played.
  Beautiful 
 graphics combined with great sound make you fell so good playing this game.. it has great value 
 and it stands proudly next to WOW.
  
  In Nightfall, we have a great story, two new well - balanced classes, improved graphics and sound, 
 cinematics looks better then ever (the lips move.. heh) , textures looks great, and sound is smooth 
 and also well done.
  The new hench system is also complex and well done, it shines through the new improvements in the 
 gameplay system, that is paced with some great action and excitement.
  
  I recommend this game for everyone, is contains all thing that should be paced in a RPG game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 29, 2006 9:11 am PT
Review:  Guild wars: Nightfall, makes a stark contrast to the other 2 campaigns which in them selfs are 
 still great. The Storyline, is full of Twists that prevent you or make it hard to predict the storyline 
 which is good. Nightfall introduces the Hero system, which are AI controled heros, when you look 
 after and level up and they are also important to various missions. The heros make a huge impact 
 on this campaign and it's made the story more compelling than either Prophices or factions.
  
  The first island you arrive at Istani, you be forgiven if you forget your still on the Training 
 island, Istani is to Elona what Shing Jea island is to Factions, except the island is huge, compared 
 to Shing jea. New graphics along with the sounds improvements make this stand-along expansion a 
 must buy, Arenanet have simply out done them selfs with the new campaign. There are just few bugs 
 which stand out that keep this from being a perfect 10, however game has have their bugs when their 
 first realeased so it is no reason to hold it back at all
  
  This campaign is screaming Editors Choice from Gamespot, I'd even go as far as saying game of the 
 year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leedawson2
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 29, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  I'm a fan of the guild wars series so it's hard to sometimes write a review about a game without 
 being biased. So I tried to place myself outside the box when writing this. The game first off 
 is beautiful. Just like Factions and Prophecies ANet has really got there stuff together creating 
 gorgeous games and I have to say I appreciate the diversity they have with each games theme. What 
 sets Nightfall apart though is the hero system, I love this feature. To be able to customize characters 
 that fight with you right down to their skills and attributes has made my performance in battles 
 so much more effective. To boot, you can give them better weapons as well. ANet has put some good 
 thought into this game. I'm totally impressed with what they done. Nightfall is one of those games 
 that when you play it, you know and you feel it's a hit.
  
  My fav character is the Dervish, talk about massive damage for one character, wow! Once you level 
 up and add your heroes that buff you, those numbers increase. ANet has manage to do all of this 
 and a lot more and yet still provide Free Online Play hats off to ANet. The formula is obviously 
 working. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TurtleMilk
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 28, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  With a mind-blowing storyline, scenery that you just want to reach out and touch, edge of your 
 seat action, revamped audio, and features no other game has had before, Nightfall is something 
 that every person should have a copy of. This game is almost indescribable  its something that 
 you have to experience for yourself in order to see just how good it is.
  
  Nightfall is a completely different game from its predecessors. Prophecies was a great game, Factions 
 could have been better, and Nightfall is a masterpiece.
  
  The game unfolds just like a book. You are comfortably introduced into the games mechanics, and 
 as you become more familiar with them, the story keeps you hooked and craving to know what happens 
 next. Nightfalls storyline is so diverse that everyone will surely find plenty about it to enjoy. 
 Players experience invasions of epic proportions, get caught in the middle of political arguments, 
 have tough decisions in which you cannot turn back thrown at them, explore the depths of an ancient 
 temple, defend their once safe havens from intruders, rescue their kidnapped friends, and much, 
 much more. This is a game with a story thas has times where you'll laugh, maybe cry if you're emo, 
 and have your jaw drop whilst thinking, Dang. 
  
  While progressing through the storyline, players will be introduced to the hero system. Heroes 
 are similar to henchmen in that they are computer controlled characters which can be invited to 
 your party. However, they level up along side you, you can choose which eight skills they bring 
 into battle, you can adjust their attribute points, improve their armor and weapons, give them 
 orders such as attack, defend, and flee, and even activate their own skills manually. Because of 
 this, and because of the new PvP style called Hero Arenas, in which players go one-on-one with 
 three of the thirteen heroes by their sides, Guild Wars has been transformed into an Online RPG 
 with deep RTS elements.
  
  The one thing you want to do the most when you first start playing in the open ended wildernesses 
 is explore. The developers did an excellent job of filling up the beautiful, lush game-world with 
 more than just the same copies of the same enemies. Players are given the ability to interact with 
 just about everything - even an average civilian. Interacting with the environment has players 
 making tough decisions; decisions with multiple paths and no turning back.
  
  Combat in Nightfall is very complex  this was previously a hidden gem, but thanks to the new hero 
 system, even beginner players can see it for themselves. Its not just about how you and your character 
 are doing, but also about how your allies are doing. Since you can now monitor even the most specific 
 details about your heroes, combat can become very hectic and very exciting. Along with your heroes, 
 you can decide what works, what doesnt work, and attempt to get everyone to work in synergy. You 
 will always be progressing in new ways, and will always be learning more and more.
  
  When looking at combat, the developers also found a way to make the difficulty of PvE great for 
 everyone. Nightfall has a great mix of easy, challenging, and practically impossible PvE content. 
 There will be times where something will be so easy you will think, I'm done already? And others 
 where you will think, Is this even possible? Some quests are now categorized, with the most difficult 
 ones having a [Master Difficulty] icon next to them.
  
  Furthermore, Nightfall introduces a new audio style. Voice acting is now done by real actors  
 what they say is now for once believable, and when mixing that in with the new animation facial 
 expressions, cutscenes are rarely skipped anymore. The developers even went so far as to add in 
 gameplay-dependent music, where if youre not in combat the music is very serene, yet when you 
 are, it quickly becomes flamboyant. Heck, now you can even hear armor rattling when characters 
 move around. Its a small implementation, but it adds in an amazing amount of depth to the game, 
 depth which was previously lacked.
  
  Lastly, Nightfall also introduces an array of other various new features. There are new items called 
 insignias and inscriptions, which you can add to armor and weapons, making them fully customizable. 
 Also, when you salvage an item, you can now choose what you want to salvage from it, with a 50% 
 chance that the item will be destroyed, with this chance being reduced with the Wisdom Title. Yes, 
 Titles now actually give you benefits. The Sunspear Title, for example, gives you a powerful PvE 
 only skill and hero points  the skill becomes more powerful and you get more hero points as the 
 rank goes up. Even floating combat text has been given a revamp. The numbers are more vibrant, 
 there is a small combat log that shows what skills were previously used on you, skill icons appear 
 over your character whenever an enemy uses one on you, and now there is a, KAPOW! effect when you 
 or an enemy is hit by an attack.
  
  Simply put, Nightfall is a lot fun; it's ridiculously addicting. One of the most difficult things 
 in the world would be to play this game and not enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Okk3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 28, 2006 6:26 am PT
Review:  Nightfall is a really great game . The proffessions are ballanced and good to play . The Dervish 
 fights with a sythe en the Paragon fights with a spear from distance ( he throws it ) . The strong 
 thing about this game is .
  
  1. The graphics are Amazing 2. U are free to do what you want 3. You got Heroes and they are like 
 henchman and you can Customise them
  
  The game is in a land called Elona its like africa and it has the looks of it too . The Story line 
 is great and it is connected with the First guild wars called ( prophecies ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quelon
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 25, 2007 7:38 pm PT
Review:  This new and inproved Guild Wars is the best 60$ i have spent all year. It has a solid and powerful 
 storyline and well done character voices. The game is perfect if you have not played Guild Wars 
 before. It shows you all the ropes ,and does a fantastic job of helping you. It has an imersive 
 story line and action packed gameplay that will keep you going untill the game is done. But wait 
 it doesnt end there! there is plenty of pvp to keep you busy! There are 2 new classes. Paragon and 
 dervish.
  
  Paragon-spear wielding leader that uses party commands to assist his or her team.
  
  Dervish- 
 This scythe wielding enemy poses a threat even to the greatest of warriors.
  
  This game does a great job on the storyline and has many graphical improvements that make the game 
 look even better.
  
  Go out and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaunex_cena
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2006 7:50 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars: Nightfall has got to be one of the best ever right now. So much people already getting 
 the game. Xfire program also put the GW from 6th to 5th ranking just this morning. Things cannot 
 get better for the game. Ridable Worms, 2 new professions, storyline nukers working to get to the 
 prime villain and veterans that can't wait to get their hands on it. Today, is a historic day for 
 GW gamers. Dare put your eyes on the game and you won't take them off!! So better get it now, because 
 you're in for one hell of a ride!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SalaDin1296248
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 6, 2007 4:21 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars Nightfall.
  ------------------------------
  
  At last it is now on Personal Computers...
  
  It's really a Fantastic Game. I think you all 
 must got this Game.
  
  Try it, it will take you to a new world that will shaken you through the Evidence of its generous 
 style of Playing...
  
  For all who played Guild Wars and Guild Wars Factions, it is - of course - not new for you, but 
 for anyone who have just heard about, I tell you that you must love this Game, just feel you are 
 one of this World - Guild Wars - and you shall love it.
  
  I can not say more. I have not yet known the Game. It is just what you can say, Hello to Guild 
 Wars Nightfall .
  
  Thank you very much.
  
  A GUILD WARS Lover... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
