-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Guild Wars: Eye of the North
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/guildwarseyeofthenorth/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Original campaign is extended with tons of new quests and content.
 A number of tough, satisfying dungeons to explore.
 Additional heroes and skills offer new ways to build characters and parties.
 Fun minigames add variety and charm to the time-tested gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No new professions.
 Limited to top-level characters.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 13, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.0, 24 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 1,372 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: NCsoft
Developer: ArenaNet
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Aug 28, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Eye of the North is largely more of the same. In this case, that's a terrific thing. 

  Guild Wars: Eye of the North (or GWEN, as players affectionately refer to it) is the first true 
 expansion for the popular online role-playing game. Factions and Nightfall were both standalone 
 products; Eye of the North requires players to own an existing Guild Wars game, and the content 
 is available only to players who have reached the level cap of 20. This sounds limiting, and indeed, 
 the expansion isn't going to bring new players into the fold. However, fans of the original Prophecies 
 campaign in particular will find a great deal of content to sink their teeth into. There are new 
 skills, a pleasant return to the story, minigames, and fantastic new dungeons. Sure, it's more 
 of the same in some ways. But in the case of the addicting and satisfying Guild Wars, more is never 
 a bad thing.  

           Polymock isn't a new denture cream -- it's a fun minigame.      

  You can access the content from three different cities, and explore the campaign from three different 
 perspectives. Eventually, you'll be joining Gwen (remember the little girl with the flute from 
 Prophecies? That's her, all grown up) to fight creatures known as destroyers. The dialogue in the 
 Guild Wars titles has never been all that great, but the narrative is interesting enough, and the 
 cutscenes are attractive and acted well. At the very least, it's nice to see some familiar faces, 
 and the story serves the new campaign nicely. After all, what would a return to form in gameplay 
 be without a return to the story that started it all?  

  Of course, there are a bunch of challenging side quests in addition to the central mission. The 
 ensuing exploration is great, and the quests are splintered into multiple parts that take you across 
 new regions such as the beautiful and snowy Far Shiverpeaks. The game engine may be over two years 
 old, but it still looks lovely, and the new areas are full of stunning architecture and gorgeous 
 vistas. Furthermore, the missions are often full of easygoing charm. How often do RPGs form quests 
 around  Office Space  references, anyway? These gusts of fresh air are found everywhere, and they 
 complement the game's unique action-focused battles, as well as its intricate character and team 
 builds. In other words, Eye of the North is, like the other Guild Wars products, a constant surprise. 
 Throw in tons of new skills, and suddenly you have new and exciting ways to crush monsters and 
 other players.  

  Keep in mind that the content is all geared toward player-versus-environment questing; player-versus-player 
 enthusiasts will find little of interest aside from the new skills. However, cooperative grouping 
 is expanded and enhanced in Eye of the North, thanks to some of the hardest dungeons the series 
 has seen. You  might  be able to get through some of them with some AI-controlled henchmen and 
 thoughtfully formed hero characters, including the famous Gwen herself. Nevertheless, with dungeons 
 such as Raven's Point -- which requires you to defeat hostiles while staying shielded in the radius 
 of a slowly-moving golem -- the severe limitations of the henchmen AI is a hindrance. On the other 
 hand, two or three players with some decent heroes and a little patience should be able to eke 
 through, if a decent adventuring party isn't to be found.  

  In addition to the continued story and new content, the lore is deepened considerably. Eye of the 
 North introduces several new races, such as the shape-shifting Norn and the gnomish Asura. The 
 new races include several new AI-controlled heroes, such as the Asuran elementalist Vekk, and the 
 necromancer Livia. As before, you can customize hero characters with skills and equipment just 
 like you can your own character, and you have some limited control over their movement. There is 
 also the addition of the Hall of Monuments, a towering structure in which you can display high-level 
 armor, weapons, and other items. In turn, these monuments will earn you bonuses if you play Guild 
 Wars 2 when it's released. In fact, Eye of the North's role as a bridge between the original Guild 
 Wars and its upcoming sequel is blatantly obvious. Not that this minimizes the quality of the new 
 content, but in light of the major additions of Factions and Nightfall, it's a pity that there 
 weren't more updates designed to bring brand-new players into the fold.  

           The new dungeons are awesome -- and quite a challenge.      

  There are some other new 
 ways to experience the fun as well. You can don a pair of brass knuckles and test your melee skills 
 in Dwarven boxing, for starters. Or play Polymock, a unique Pokmon-style game in which you put 
 creatures with predetermined skill sets into one-on-one battles. There's also the Norn fighting 
 arena, which features a progression of single battles that pit you against a number of familiar 
 characters. These may sound like slight diversions, but not only do they provide many more hours 
 of quality play, they also let you experiment with skills that may further enhance your main character's 
 build.  

  The most negative and positive things that can be said about Eye of the North are things that could 
 be said about the previous games. The dumb henchmen AI, inconsistent pathfinding, and incomplete 
 follow command are the same as they always were. Of course, if you've played enough Guild Wars 
 that you would consider purchasing the expansion, you've learned to deal with those minor quibbles. 
 Nevertheless, they're still there, and they still occasionally get in the way of the fun. Yet as 
 always, the action itself is visceral and exciting, which isn't exactly something that can be said 
 about the combat in most RPGs. It's also remarkably tactical, requiring smart choices that enable 
 you to take just the right eight skills into battle. This is the stuff that makes the expansion 
 worth every penny, and reminds us that getting more of the same can (albeit rarely) be a wonderful 
 thing. If you're still playing Guild Wars, Eye of the North is an easy purchasing choice because 
 it was made just for you, and it rarely disappoints.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (53 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: gormo4
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2009 7:00 am PT
Review:  Positive:
  + New 20 hour campaign
  + Over 100 new skills
  + Lots of new armour sets
  
  Negative
  - Campaign not very replayeble
  - Could be more new PvP features
  
  Welcome 
 to my review for guild wars eye of the north, as a big fan of the other three games I feel it didn't 
 dissapoint.
  You must have one of the other games to be able to play eye of the north, so nightfall, factions 
 or prophecies bassically.
  Once you purchase eotn you will get an access key with it, if not then make sure to send it back, 
 to be safe always buy a brand new one.
  
  After entering your access key and log on you have to head to your main city, for factions- Keaning, 
 nightfall- Kamadan and prophecies- Lions arch, in your city you should search around for any active 
 quests until you find a lead, if you have trouble it's easily solved by googling it.
  You must also note you have to be level 10 to get the quest.
  
  What were my first impressions 
 as I stepped into the north? well depending on what campaign your character started on you will 
 be put in different situations.
  For factions you go through a small dungeon fighting street gangs (the am-fah and crimson skull 
 etc..) 
  For nightfall you'll be against Corsair mobs and for prophecies you'll get random monsters.
  
 
  Any way you'll be sent to the same dungeon like place, eventually your quest arrow will lead to 
 a group of asurans and dwarfs, suddenly you hear a great bang and your told to run to the dungeon 
 exit.
  Your then given a time limit whilst being chased by a horde of level 28-32 destroyers, this reminded 
 me of the old northern wall mission in prophecies, you bassically have to run as fast as you can!
 
  
  As you go through the portal you'll appear in the north, if you own prophecies you'll reconise 
 the map, bassically a big chunk of the porphecies map which previously had nothing in is now full 
 of eotn locations.
  You'll also be able to access the north through 'mysterious vortex' on any three of the campaigns 
 maps.
  
  So, where will eotn take you? at first you go through the harsh winter scapes including high mountains 
 and low icy ravines, the map is bassically set into 4 territories, Charr lands, Norn lands, Ebon 
 Vanguard lands and the Asuran lands.
  Each of these have their own unique themes, Asuran lands are green and jurrassic, Norn lands are 
 harsh cold mountains, Charr lands are giant green planes full of foul monsters and the Ebon vanguard 
 has a bit of a mixed land but mainly snowy and rocky scapes.
  
  By any means it keeps up the usual guild wars standards and does have a certain feeling to it from 
 time to time.
  There is much more detail than the 3 main campaigns as well, by just looking around you can see 
 the immense detail to every plant, rock down to snow flake.
  
  On to gameplay, the main quest includes getting support from the 4 good factions (dwarf, norn, 
 ebon vanguard and asurans) this is to help get rid of 'the great destroyer' who bassically is threatening 
 the world with its immense power of some sort and needs to be stopped.
  For example, to get the ebon vanguard support you must rescue a platoon of their men captured by 
 the Charr.
  
  For players without nightfall you'll be glad to hear you can pick up heroes in the eye of the north, 
 these include all professions, most are gained through primary quests but for the assassin, dervish, 
 ritualist and paragon you need to find unique quests and do them as well as you need the campaign 
 which is exclusive to the professions, for example you need factions to be able to get the quest 
 for the assassin and ritualist, simple!
  
  Experienced players will be glad to hear there are lots of new skills, items, armours and titles.
 
  
  There are about 25 new skills for each proffession, including 5-6 elites. 
  
  As for weapons there are some pretty unique new accessories and weapons, for example the mesmer 
 can pick up the rose accesory which is just many of the pretty new items avilable.
  
  Titles include one for each freindly faction, you'll also need to be a certain rank in the faction 
 title to buy there armour, for example you'll need a rank 5 norn title to buy norn armour aswell 
 as access to some other special armours and some skills + quests.
  
  By special armours I mean new headpeices and gauntlets introduced into eotn.
  For example you 
 can get bandanas, banaclavas, icy gauntlets, stone gauntlets, fire gauntlets and a few more, altough 
 these items are over priced and you usually need to have a certain title rank or have completed 
 a certain stage in the game they're max armour peices for your proffession and look rather impressive.
 
  For example, to get a bandana you need to have completed the game and it will cost 10k and 50 
 bolts of cloth from a dwarf in the final mission location.
  
  As well as a 20 hour campaign there's also more side quests which can give you some great features, 
 for example you can unlock mini games which allow you to earn more faction for a certain eotn title.
 
  One of the main way to earn title points is to carry around the 'heroes handbook' you can get 
 them for free at any main outpost in eotn, when you carry it and complete important main story 
 missions you will get a page filled in.
  Once you've done 8 or more you take it back to where you got it and claim title points, obviously 
 the more you've done the more points you get, you'll also have to start the book again meaning 
 doing the missions again if you want to.
  
  I mentioned as one on the negatives that the campaign was a bit repetive, I managed to do it 3 
 times with 3 different characters and now I can't bear to do it again, unlike in factions or nightfall 
 when I've done them all at least 5-6 times each without even thought about them being boring.
 
  
  So, I reccomend eotn to anyone who plays guild wars and is bored of just reapeting normal quests 
 over and over again.
  It's a good buy for just 9.99 and is worth it if you enjoy guild wars.
  Thanks for reading, 
 I hope you enjoyed it.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flame_tiberium
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 21, 2008 1:32 am PT
Review:  This new expansion is a great expansion to the GuildWars franchise. It definately holds an exciting 
 new world that is expanded on to the world of tyria and brings back great memories of charr, ascalonians 
 and dwarves and also brings in new races like asura and norn which have great and humorous personalitys. 
 Although it is a great area for pve it is a little to quik to beat it could be bigger and has little 
 effect on pvpers. I found that this game also had great farming posiblities and can provide more 
 riches than most campaignes competing even with ToA. Although hardmode in this campaigne can be 
 Extreamly! dificould, normal mode can be a breeze if you have a full party and decent players. 
 As i played this game for a while and got into the eotn i found the storyline very entertaining 
 but i still dont find it as exciting as the tyrian campaigne. But let alone this game is a exciting 
 expansion and will hopefully provide as much fun to the people of this mmorpg as it did for me. 
 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misha97
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 28, 2008 3:41 pm PT
Review:  I found this game on Ebay for a reasonable price, it should not cost 30-40 dollars, I recommend 
 buy it on Ebay than at a store lke Best Buy, Target, etc.
  
  Down to the gameplay,
  Nice gameplay with a kind of twisted story line. It starts out when a giant earth quake hits tyria 
 and you go under Lions Arch. You find out that these so called "destroyers" are attacking tyria. 
 So you must make alliances with either the Ebon Vanguard ( a Ascalonian division os soldiers ) , 
 the Asura ( Small, smart, long-eared beings who call humans "bookas" ) , and finally the Norn ( 
 Large, strong humans that can turn into bears. They look like vikings. ) So after you do 3 "main 
 quests" which will take you about 2 days for each to complete, you gather your allies and fight 
 along side the deldimor dwarves to defeat these destroyers. It ends usually that you complete the 
 game in less that a week. What happened to the Guild Wars which takes you a month or two to complete?????
 
  
  Now, graphics and sound,
  Graphics, well nothing to say, same as usually, nothing new. Sound is pretty good. 
  
  Sadly 
 no new proffesions and armor costs A LOT, almost over 100k each set, good luck collecting money. 
 The game ends with a strange ending that really isn't an ending but kind of like a sneak peek to 
 what will happen in GW 2.
  
  Overall, great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErkiB
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  I feel like Eye of the North is a great add-on to the Guild Wars games. I dont understand why some 
 people dont like it but it does live up to the expectations. If you only have Nightfall and Factions 
 you will not be able to understand the storyline as well but if you have the Prophecies you will 
 understand everything.
  
  Eye of the North has alot of new skills, abilities, new and improved quests, new bosses, monsters, pets 
 and even improved graphics.
  This game has alot of new skills which with some class are great and some are bad but overall a 
 great addition because after you have ended all of the games you really want more skills.
  
  The new and improved quests like going underground and dungeons. This add-on is surely a hard 
 game because it isnt easy beating underground missions with heros. It can me challenging but thats 
 what GW is all about.
  
  There are alot of new bosses and monsters as I said and that really spices it up along with great 
 looking towns and good quests as well as the storyline is great.
  
  Now to the graphics...... The graphics are well improved exactly when I got into a forest in Eye 
 of the North I saw the detailing on trees and I was like WOW. It was great to see them improving 
 the games guality and really makes the game that much better. For an online game this game has impressive 
 graphics.
  
  Five Ratings:
  
  Graphics:9.5/10
  Storyline:8/10
  Heros:8/10
  Quests:8.5/10
  Missions:9/10
  
  OVERALL: This game has great new adds as well has heros which 
 you will be able to get. This game is well worth the money if you like mmorpgs and are the GW fan 
 .
  I truly reccomend this game to anybody owning the rest of the three games.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talus057
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 13, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  Is 30-40 dollars worth a few skills? ArenaNet seems to think so. If you plan on playing anymore 
 you better get this expansion. You're going to have to dish out 30-40 dollars, depending on where 
 you buy it from, in order to get the expansion. You do not have a choice in the matter. Ain't that 
 nice?
  
  No, it isn't. I fail to see the logic in paying that much for a total of maybe 5 or 6 skills. Most 
 of them you won't use, but they make them important enough where you have to buy them. I mean, 
 can we honestly expect ArenaNet to be ignorant this entire time? I gave them bad reviews for their 
 marketing practice in the past and no one really listened to me. If you don't get this expansion, 
 you will see a few other people (I stress few, not everyone has eotn) using skills you are not 
 using, such as Cure Hex. Anet took the liberty of making these skills really important. That means 
 if you don't get this then you can give up playing a few classes because you probably won't be 
 as good without it...
  
  I'm sorry, but the ties are cut. I cannot in my right mind condone such inappropriate marketing 
 and sales tactics. ArenaNet has proven it cares very little about its player base time and time 
 again with the addition of lame skills meant to introduce the WoW generation to real PvP. I don't 
 like it, and I don't like that you require such a small x-pack, and deem it's price on the necessity 
 instead of what is packaged inside of it.
  
  You can't really get much more greedier than that.
  
  1/10 ---Arena Net, You should be ashamed 
 of yourself. I will not be buying GW2. I would have to be a complete idiot to do so, knowing full 
 well that you are just making more promises you cannot keep, and knowing you'll just release more 
 inconsistent garbage like this.
  
  Head, Meet Gun. You just committed career suicide.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pepperman33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up quite recently, several months after deciding to leave the Guild Wars universe 
 and defaulting to WoW. I was tired, and fed up with the repetitive nature of quests and the seemingly 
 pointless grind of playing. I had left guild wars because something about Nightfall just didn't 
 do it for me. Having a level 20 character, i didn't really want to level up all of the Heroes, 
 and it was a bit of a grind for me. However, with EotN you are plunged back into Tyria with 3 level 
 20 Henchman, which made it a lot more pleasing. 
  The game starts with you being transported to the Shiverpeaks, and from there you have three very 
 different paths to choose from. The Norn path takes you deep into mountains, the Ebon Vanguard 
 takes you to the Charr homeland - Quite ironically, this is beautiful sort of like Pre-Searing 
 Ascalon, and it makes you wonder why they bothered to blow it up. The Asura path takes you into 
 Jungle settings.
  The gameplay is identical to that of the other Chapters, except from their being Dungeons instead 
 of missions. This isn't very different, except you can return to them and do different quests at 
 a later date. 
  Basically, EotN is an expansion on the Tyrian storyline, and it proves very entertaining. Its more 
 of the same, but that really is a good thing with this game, and it proves to be much more fun 
 than Factions and Nightfall ever were. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feibie
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2008 8:13 pm PT
Review:  expansion is based more on PVE content. so much more land to be explored and to open up, shiverpeaks 
 we see more of that, we visit charr homelands and more of kryta and the magumma... interesting 
 campaign but... it just seems the same for some reason... maybe it's just me or something i don't 
 really know, campaign's a bit short compared to the other ones...
  
  there are a few things i like though, like the title system, mini games you can play that makes 
 the game much more fun but still... i'm not very impressed by the game tbh, i'm not saying the 
 developers did a bad job i'm just saying it just hasn't interested me enough for me to play it 
 much, i've bought it for a few days more than halfway through campaign and i've gotten bored..... 
 but if you're a newcomer to this game, then i assure you, you prolly won't get bored  . , i've 
 just played this series enough to be bored is all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swissusadude
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 26, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  For those who want some extra content will be happy with EotN. To help those of you who are not 
 sure if you want to purchase this expansion, I will outline the pros and cons:
  
  Pros:
  -slightly cheaper than the other Guild Wars campaigns
  -lots of new pve oriented skills
  -quests, both 
 primary and optional, have better rewards, meaning you will spend some good time questing unlike 
 in Factions or Nightfall where side quests were not worth completing
  -dungeons reward you with good items
  -ten new heroes
  -nice variety of new places
  -a "prelude" 
 for Guild Wars 2, meaning it will help you in the eventual sequel of Guild Wars
  
  Cons:
  -not many new skills to be used in PvP
  -dungeons replace missions completely, and can be somewhat 
 boring/repetitive
  -too much focuse on PvE means you will accomplish quests/tasks more on your own with heroes/henchmen 
 instead of with real players
  -graphics more of the same
  -it is an expansion so you do not receive new character slots
  
  Overall, I would recommend 
 that you buy this expansion, although if your main reason of playing Guild Wars is for PvP you 
 might not be too impressed with this. You will have a feeling of "completion" once you complete 
 all three campaigns and this expansion. And, it is apparent that it is time to move onto a sequel, 
 so I agree with NCsoft and ArenaNet for making this the last game in the Guild Wars line-up and 
 working on Guild Wars 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godfather_XP
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 8, 2008 2:53 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars: The Eye of the North is the first true expansion in the Guild Wars franchise. This 
 MMO allows you to take a character you built up from either of the three campaigns and journey 
 north into Tyria where you meet new and old races and fight a growing threat from within the Earth.
 
  
  In many ways this game is meant for people who are already die hard fans of Prophecies, Factions, 
 or Nightfall. This expansion gives you a short story line, several pve only skills, a few pvp skills, 
 more titles to grind for, and more armor to buy. All and all I found this game to be pretty dissapointing. 
 I expected much more from anet. However it seems the quality just continues to lower with each 
 passing game release. 
  
  The Hall of Monuments should just have a large "Buy GW2" sign hanging above it. Most maps for dungeons 
 are just recycled, not to mention most armor is just a reskin of pre-existing armor. However the 
 die-hard fans of gw will look past the negative (or be blind to it) just to have more things to 
 do till gw2 is released.
  
  However the positive is anet did not throw another wrench into the mangled engine called PvP by 
 adding 2 more classes. They were smart enough to just add new skills to the existing proffessions.
 
  
  As I typed above if you are a die-hard fan who needs to fill time until gw2 then buy this game, 
 it does that... however if you are not a die-hard fan, just avoid it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teg2006
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Look people this is a spring board in to the new game 
  when it comes out not the next step in the game .
  It is a great place to get more of the great 
 stuff guild wars 
  was made on and to keep you busy until the new one comes out 
  and so you could take some stuff with you so play and have fun 
  i love this game and hope that 
 it can give ppl a place to play that is not
  the same old wow . the game play is great for part time player 
  i think that is why ppl love 
 it and you do not have to pay every month
  you can leave and cime back as you see fit .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanvett
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Well, its painstaking to write reviews for many series of a game. I have all four Guild Wars series. 
 I have scored the first series of Guild Wars at 9 and Nightfall at 8.5 indeed. After Nightfall 
 gave me lots of fun, I surely bought Eye of the North on its release date. However I was disappointed 
 at it.
  
  Main missions are fewer than Nightfall. Though mini games of Eye of the North are fun, there are 
 not many either. Some NPCs look unsightly and their voices sound dull. The worst thing is there 
 is no new elite skills. WTF? I really don't know why they didn't add any elite skill for Eye of 
 the North. Arena. Net, please correct this big mistake.
  
  I am just a seeker searching for and playing all good games. Unluckily, I lost 50 bucks again on 
 Eye of the North then. Maybe this is my fate for being a "good-game seeker". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laugm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  The dungeons in eye of the north are quite well designed, and come in varying levels (from a single 
 level dungeon to a multiple level (but separately completable) dungeon, Slaver's Exile which is 
 accessible upon completing EoTN's campaign, which is a bit short. The campaign only requires completion 
 of a few dungeons, so the remaining dungeons are free for players to explore after completing the 
 main story. All of the dungeons have small and boss-like mobs at the end (lvl29 or so with a lot 
 of health and might have special unique skills/abilities) 
  
  One of the problems is with the Asura title track, where playing polymock is essential to get some 
 really cool skills (summon ruby djinn, ice imp and a few other monsters) as lag during polymock 
 matches with AI opponents will cause problems with interrupting key skills. It's also quite disappointing 
 that players cannot play polymock with each other (i know a lot of people who want to do so) .
  
  Eye of the North is a pretty good expansion (in fact the first and most probably the last one 
 for Guild Wars, as the next project is the sequel) to tie up loose ends and set the tone for the 
 story in the sequel, which happens after around 2 centuries from the current time in Guild Wars. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kryu88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  It's amazing to think that NCSoft has released 3 Guid Wars games (Prophecies, Factions, and Nightfall) 
 but have yet to release a true sequel to the popular MMORPG. Well, they finally decided to do so 
 with Guild Wars: Eye of the North, an expansion pack that gives GW fans even more of a reason to 
 skip school or work for a few days, but don't do that.
  
  The story in EotN is pretty compelling (as the others in the series are) that (like the others) 
 has an ancient menace that is resurfacing to take over/destroy the world. In this case, they are 
 called the Destroyers, very creative..... Who are popping up like dandilions from their long forgotten 
 underground ruins and threaten to kill everything in their sites. You are dropped into the land 
 beyond the Shiverpeaks of the original GW and run hastily to meet the humans who have settled there 
 to combat the Destroyers. There you meet somebody from the original GW who was thought to be dead 
 and the story goes off from there. The 3 previous installments in the GW franchise have all been 
 seperate games in their own right, while Eye of the North (EotN) really does just add a few more 
 features to spice up the gameplay and give GW veterans an even greater challenge to face. But, 
 it truly is worth it for the GW junkies out there clammering for more dungeons to explore, armor 
 sets to get, mini games to play, and monsters to slay. This game is really for veterans of the 
 series, as you have to have a level 20 character to gain access to the territories in EotN and 
 even when you do get there, about 95% of the creatures there are above level 20, so this is no 
 walk in the marketplace for GW noobies. So, if you are new to the series and getting one of the 
 games to play, you will want to hold off on EotN until you feel that you have enough experience 
 with the series, before you tackle this expansion.
  
  One of the downsides to this expansion, however, is that there are no new classes to jump into 
 and take for a spin around the wilderness. You are stuck with either the original 6 (Warrior, Monk, 
 Ranger, Necromancer, Mesmer, and Elementalist) or if you have the other campaigns the Assassin, 
 Ritualist, Dervish, and Paragon. Though, the lack of new classes is kinda made up for by adding 
 a slew of new skills for your avatars to master. There are also 40 new armor sets, 4 per class, 
 for you to grind to the netherworld and back to get. There has also been additional mini games 
 added in for players to take part in to earn more faction points for a particular group in EotN. 
 There is Polymock, a sort of Pikachu I Choose You! type game that the Asurans play in their down 
 time and there are the Norn boxing matches played out in a tournament style. The faction points 
 that I referred to earlier, gain you more favor with that particular group in the land of EotN. 
 There are the Asurans, a tiny Stitch lookin-a-like race who excel in Golem creation and the mystical 
 arts. The Norn, who are basically overgrown dwarves who solve everything by fighting.... or getting 
 drunk to the point of incapacitation, which you can take part in an ale drinking contest (note: 
 those who cannot handle their computer screen swirling like a lava lamp, just about 10x worse, 
 do not play that mini game) And there are, well, the Dwarves who excel in mechanics and, like their 
 Norn cousins, ale drinking. Earning favor with each of these groups gets you rewards, in you can 
 buy from their Weapons, Armor, and Consumables shops. But, of course, you have to earn a certain 
 amount of points to gain access to these shops. These races, along with one more, will be playable 
 in Guild Wars 2, and the achievements you unlock with them and other things in EotN can carry over 
 to GW2.
  
  After playing the other 3 GW games, I still have to say that this one takes the prize for best 
 graphics. NCSoft outdid themselves with the graphical overhaul EotN bombards you with. When you 
 first step into the snowy fields of the Far Northern Shiverpeaks, you can almost feel the chilling 
 air and the snow flakes gently landing on your characters face. The jungle portions of the land 
 are even more beautiful to behold, the views that EotN can produce will make you just want to sit 
 and stare in awe at your computer screen for minutes. The monster designs are also very detailed 
 to the point that you want to take a screenshot every time you see one, so you can continue to 
 look at the beauty even after you're done playing.
  
  Sound design is on par with the graphics, the VA in this game do an excellent job at bringing the 
 characters to life (even though there are still only 2 VAs for your male/female characters....) 
 The musical score keeps the pacing of the game exciting in those intense battles against hordes 
 of ferocious Raptors (yes, apparently dinosaurs exist in EotN) . To when you are on a simple stroll 
 through the snowy fields and everything is tranquil and peacefull, till you get ambushed by some 
 shadow beasts....
  
  If you are a fan of GW, then by golly you should already have this expansion!!! If you are not 
 a fan of the series and are just getting into one of the other games, then steer clear of this 
 one for a while, this one is for veterans. GW is a nice introductory MMORPG, but as with others, 
 there is the grind factor and the A. I for the henchmen is still.... well... special . But, all the 
 extras added into EotN make it a must have for fans of the series and hopefully it'll hold fans 
 off till Guild Wars 2 is released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limafoxtrot
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  I have been a Guild wars fan for a long time. I think on some levels - this may be the best in 
 terms of story, setting and game play the series has. They actually hired decent writers and voice 
 actors. The graphics are amazing and the quest are varied from master level to solo. Good stuff. 
 Most mobs now consist of dual classed critters that use rez. There are some crazy things like Zho's 
 Journal which is a book you can find. If you read it and retrace the story its leads to some rewards 
 - although not an official quest.
  
  I have some gripes though - the game could use some balance - some things are damn near impossible 
 to complete without slugging through at 60% DP and finishing only do to the desire never to return 
 (usually these are dungeons) .
  
  Speaking of Dungeons - you can't map to them for some reason which makes getting to them a pain. 
 Playing them can be a pain as well but the rewards are nice. There are a couple of the solo quests 
 that I'm not sure can be completed with certain classes (at least not with a ranger)
  
  Another gripe is the armor in GWEN is by and large crappy looking, most of looking like reskins 
 of previous sets. Monster the same - most of the 'new' ones are simply different versions of the 
 same old Charr, Stormridders, Undead etc that have different skill bars - but look the same as 
 the stuff that has been around for a while.
  
  In the end for every think I like - there is something I hate or get annoyed with. Some long standing 
 issue still are not fixed with the basic gameplay. Overall this is a mixed bag - if you love Guild 
 Wars you'll enjoy parts and the new content. If Guild Wars is just another game to you - then this 
 will add little of interest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theronnieboy
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  What I like: Excellent graphics and sound, combat action is rewarding and entertaining,
  travel system is nice, free online play.
  
  What I dont like:
  no multiplayer outside of 
 the cities unless they are in your party. Hard to find merchants, town folk, ect because there 
 are always hundreds of bodies standing around, and no crafting your items, you have to have them 
 crafted with materials that you find.
  
  The things that I dont like are so small they dont take away from the game all that much. This 
 is a really good game and definately one of my favorites. I havent played it all that long so I 
 cant give a very in depth review. I say better than warcraft for a number of reasons. Not quite 
 as good as Oblivion but then again, nothing is imo. I think I will be playing this game for sometime, 
 it has alot to offer. Definately recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: don16086
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  I didn't care for the last 2 expansions to Guildwars but GWEN is the best one, its really more 
 of a continuation of the first GW game. Tyria is just a better bigger area to fight in and killing 
 Charr well, everyone loves killing Charr. Earning titles has way more meaning and while it's hard 
 work, its worth it because you need to get to a certain rank to be able to use certain merchants 
 and armor crafter's etc. There are some fun solo quests like Dwarven boxing where you get to use 
 brass knuckles and special skills to go along with it. If you have not started playing GW, get 
 this game but keep in mind you will need to own one of the other expansions or the original GW 
 to play this. (like you haven't hard that by now) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kommando13
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2007 9:24 pm PT
Review:  The new expansion to the Guild Wars MMORPG series is Eye of the North . I got alot of mixed feelings 
 from playing this game both good and bad. Although I still think that this series is great, and 
 this expansion pack is good knowing what the Guild Wars team is capable of, I really didnt think 
 that they did all that they could of. As far as the story goes, it is very good and immersive in 
 Eye of the North . And I think that the story and everything flows well with all of the previous 
 Guild Wars game. However I also didnt like that their were no new professions and that all of the 
 new game was limited to high level charactors, which was a downfall for those who picked this up 
 when they were still new to the game. All in all its a good add-on to a great series, and anyone 
 that is a fan of Guild Wars ought to pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixty7velle
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  After playing GW for over 2 years, I really expected more from this first true expansion. Starting 
 with the storyline:
  I was pretty excited when I found out they were going to expand on the invasion of the destroyers, 
 which were the basis of the defend quests. I understand that they had a beginning and ending they 
 had to conform to, but it seems like they just threw together a lackluster story to fill between. 
 There wasn't much of a feeling of accomplishment when I finished the campaign like with the others. 
 ANet decided to stick with the basic premise of having to fight against evil and being forced to 
 seek help from other people to do so. I did like that they let you use lockpicks instead of buying 
 an assortment of keys for chesting.
  The gameplay is still about the same as always, with a few added pve skills that can help out alot 
 with certain quests/dungeons. I'm actually glad that they didn't add any pvp skills, since there 
 are so many already. More skills=more nerfs... I'm glad that ANet is finally starting to ban accounts 
 on a massive scale. The new /report feature is great for reporting leechers and bots. The economy 
 in GW is virtually non-existent anymore. Hard mode has put so many golds into circulation that 
 they are being reguarded as common items that are worth more for identifying that actual use. If 
 I had virtual stock in the GW world, I would be worried... The dungeons are fun and very entertaining. 
 I have hench/heroed all accept for Slavers Exile, so they are relatively easy, but mainly time 
 consuming. One thing that really makes them easy is that the ally NPC's can die and you will not 
 get kicked. My only quarrel with the dungeons is the reusing of scenery inside of them. Many (or 
 most) of the dungeons contain identical rooms as other dungeons in the game. Might have worked 
 better to have fewer dungeons but make each more unique.
  As I expected, they added more titles to the game for players to show their leetness. Sadly, it 
 seems like titles are all that is left of GW these days, and ANet sees this as a good thing. On 
 top of that, they added siege devourer farming to encourage the mindless repetition of title track 
 farming. This is basically the same thing as worm farming in Sulfurus Wastes. I guess they saw 
 how many people spent so much time working on SS/LB titles, and wanted to give them another title 
 to go for (feeding the monkey) .
  I was pretty upset to see that the new armor sets are just reskins of the old sets. They mixed 
 and matched the basic patterns and changed them around a little. Now this was just lazy. All in 
 all, it is a good game. You can easily spend hundreds of hours doing dungeon runs and farming randomness, 
 but GW will never reach the high mark of Prophesies. GWEN has the feeling like it was thrown together 
 and rushed, but still manages to keep the player interested. They basically just took what was 
 a hit in Nightfall, and exploited it even further. I can't hate them for this, then again I can't 
 praise them for it either. GW's golden ticket is still it's PvP, so I would only recommend GWEN 
 to those who are huge into PvE. Otherwise, stick with the three campaigns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBROWN9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  I haven't played Guild wars in almost a year, so I cannot be described as a fan boy writing a biased 
 review, however I recently got bored of Lord of the Rings Online, having reached the level cap 
 so I went out and bought GWEN on the off chance. I am pleased to say that I did.
  
  First of all I cannot understand some of the reviews stating that this is just more of the same 
 from the previous campaigns. GWEN is definitely new and refreshing, in what is clearly intended 
 to be both a bridge and a fore taste of the upcoming GW 2.
  
  GWEN is a reward for the loyal GW players in that you can only start playing if you're at the 20 
 level cap. It introduces a load of new features such as the reputation system, and fun side games. 
 If you fancy playing this game and are new to GW then it is worth buying one of the previous titles 
 and leveling up to 20 as fast as you can. The game is addictive - the hours fly by when you are 
 playing, and it will keep you coming back for more.
  
  The graphics honestly have to be the best I've seen in a game on PC, - far better than (the very 
 good) Nightfall and some of the environments are truly works of art. The sound is top notch with 
 an ambient classical score playing in the background.
  
  My only criticisms of GWEN is that it is very hard to play - you really need to concentrate on 
 your build, skills and the heroes you are going to take with you as there are some really high 
 level monsters out in the wilderness who can kill you with one hit.
  
  The other bad things are the fact that the skill bar remains limited to only 8 slots which is frustrating 
 when there are hundreds of skills you can potentially equip.
  
  Further, it remains difficult to get human fellows to join a party, which leaves you relying on 
 bot heroes &amp; henchmen.
  
  Also this is still not a go anywhere environment with lots of invisible walls.
  
  All in all 
 GWEN is a must buy for any seasoned GW players, as it has all the features of any other MMO on 
 the market, but with one major difference - NO MONTHLY FEES !
  
  Keep it up Arena Net !
  
  Difficulty - Hard
  Graphics - 10
  Sound - 9.8
  Gameplay - 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RexTTer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  My girlfriend and I play Guildwars together and have adventured our way through all three of the 
 previous games. We're very experienced mmorpg'ers with a long list of other games behind us. We 
 bought the 'sneak peak weekend' pack for Eye of the North first and then the full game. It is BRILLIANT! 
 There are many changes and improvements to be enjoyed in Eye of the North. As well as instantly 
 recognisable ones such as new skills and weapons there are more subtle ones too. Let's start with 
 the music. When was the last time you heard someone extol the music in a game? It's wonderfully 
 atmospheric, unobtrusive and really adds to the richness of the game. The design of the world is 
 lavish. In some games you see a very interesting game item such as a statue or a doorway and then 
 notice it again in ten other places. Not in GW: EN. Each location is unique with it's own features 
 which have been lovingly designed. It is possible just to walk about slack-jawed in wonder at some 
 of the locations (the rope bridge by the waterfall for example) .
  
  The world itself starts with the atmosphere of an ancient Scandanavia that actually 'feels' cold 
 and covered in snow; much like the deserts in Prophecies 'felt' hot and covered in sand. NPCs in 
 EotN are an interesting lot too, changing into bears and being 2.5m tall! There are two other main 
 areas which are mainly grassland, but even each of these achieves its own unique atmosphere.
  
  The structure of the missions seems to have changed subtly too. Whereas in previous games there 
 were main missions with interesting side quests, the side quests in EotN seem to intermingle with 
 the main missions in a new way that really adds to the experience. You are faced with decisions 
 over which path to take and how to proceed. Although this is similar to previous games, here it 
 seems to have been really embedded. Also, there are solo missions you can play when you just fancy 
 a GW: EN fix and you want to put your individual skills to the test. Even more: there are master 
 level quests for only the best parties to complete. My girlfriend and I have completed the game 
 and now can return to these unfinished master quests for a very challenging experience. They really 
 extend the life of the game.
  
  As you do all the missions for the different factions in GW: EN you gain points with their individual 
 race. This is easy to do and seemlessly fits into the game as you amass these points whilst doing 
 the missions. The way it works is one point per kill, plus bonuses at each set of 25 kills, plus 
 more bonus points or power-ups from resurrection shrines, plus even more bonus points from completing 
 the mission. The titles are fun too. My Dervish was 'not too smelly' for a while! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A1B2C3CAL
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2007 7:51 pm PT
Review:  The enemy AI has received some work and now the enemies are pretty smart. The casters and support 
 in generally tend to stay behind, while the melee rushes to your group, smacking everything. You 
 wont see them staying around if you start doing some AoE spells or if they get overwhelmed. Other 
 bad news is that the monsters are really high in level. With their level up to 28, they are pretty 
 powerful and they can finish your party very fast if you dont play smart. Eye of the North keeps 
 everything Guild Wars had to offer and brings some new additions to the game. These additions will 
 give you that extra that will make you come for more. With a revamped graphical engine, Guild Wars 
 looks at its best. A lot of cinematics have been implemented in Eye of the North which do nothing 
 but to help you understand the story better. As always, the music is worth every penny. The voice 
 acting and the sound effects are very good and there is nothing to complain about. Lot of players, 
 the lag is as always almost absent, allowing you to taste a beautiful MMO experience. Nothing has 
 changed and the game runs as smooth as always. The constant patching keeps the game at its best. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: piperfloral
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  This is one expansion I've been anticipating for quite some time. The return to the beautiful snowy 
 mountains of Tyria is a welcome addition to the beautiful and expansive world of Guild Wars. I 
 appreciate the subtle differences in the visual quality that make the game all that much more beautiful 
 and fluid . . . it is difficult sometimes to keep my eye on what I'm doing as I gaze in wonder 
 at the splendor around me.
  
  As for the game play itself, I love the addition of the Polymock and Norn Tournament. The chance 
 to try out some new builds against truly wily opponents is a welcome addition. I also enjoy all 
 of the varied quests and missions available. This expansion provides just what I was looking for 
 to tide me over until GW2.
  
  I am excited about all the new skills and am having a terrific time fitting them into my builds 
 and the ability to bring new Heroes into the fold is a much welcome and exciting addition.
  
  The Hall of Monuments is a clever and interesting addition to the game world, in which we can 
 now display our achievements throughout the previous campaigns on Monumental Tapestries and trophy 
 platforms made especially for us. The fact that you have to earn the tapestries and unlock the 
 special high-level accomplishments to display adds a further level of addiction that keeps you 
 going for just that one more skill or accomplishment or title!
  
  I really only have a few minor suggestions rather than complaints for this title. First, I would 
 have loved the ability to unlock even one more profession - perhaps something to do with each of 
 the races - if not just one. A Dwarven Explosives Master, for example, or a Norn Shape Shifter.
 
  
  I also wish there would have been a few more armor sets introduced into the game, along with a 
 few other ways to modify your character... like the always talked about 'barber' or even a tattoo 
 artist. Although I do appreciate that many of the armor sets allow you to paint your characters' 
 faces. But I wish there had been a bit more diversion in the presentation of the new armor sets 
 - a bit different look about them. There are a few in the game that are so distinctly different, 
 they attract much attention, but then many others tend to blend into one another.
  
  Regarding the AI, it is markedly better than in most games of this genre, but I still long for 
 ever improving battle intelligence and skill sets for the henchmen. I am a player that finds a 
 bit of frustration in teaming with Pick Up Groups, and don't play enough to have a solid, always-on-when-I'm-on 
 group of fellow adventurers, so it is just easier for me to log on, hire some henchmen, outfit 
 my heroes (love the new ones!) and go go go! But, again, this is a minor complaint.
  
  Finally, as the leader of a guild and an alliance, I wish there had been some improvements made 
 to the Guild Hall structures themselves. That is, perhaps a few more NPCs (like the aforementioned 
 barber, or a skill trainer with more skill options, or the ability to personalize your Hall in 
 more specific ways than just unlocking NPCs.
  
  However, these are all minor issues compared with the splendor that is this expansion. I, for one, 
 am looking forward to many more addictive hours playing this game and unlocking titles and skills 
 and exploring the ever expanding world that is Guild Wars! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: endtype
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 14, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  So I was really excited when I first started playing this game. The gameplay is about the same 
 as usual. The story was amazing. However the whole mandatory/ primary par t of the story line is 
 really short. Especially for the price of $39.99 USD. It should of been $10 less. There were some 
 highlights though. LIke the dwarven boxing and Polymock. Polymock is a minigame that was fun and 
 done right. It was the only thing GW: EN actually expanded on. The artwork and graphics were well 
 done with the technology they had. Loading times were a little long though. Some quests were just 
 too plain boring. And there is an OPTIONAL grind for armor and items and stuff that just isn't 
 fun. A big plus for this is the high number of dungeons which are a blast. Overall I wish I got 
 Bioshock instead of staying loyal and buying this last installment of Guild Wars 1... the whole 
 thing was kind of a promotion for Guild Wars 2.... I'm done with this series... but it sure was fun! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: musicaz70
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Well I'll just say that this game was straight out... AVERAGE. Nothing really made me say dude 
 this new (insert update) is so f'ing sweet!. The graphics... meh i mean their still okay. But their 
 really nothing to talk about, they don't glitch, they don't look like crap, they don't look amazing.
 
  
  The sound: Well I usually liked the music in GW but this one it felt tacked on...
  
  Gameplay: So you've read this far and your thinking... Well if there's no improvements on gameplay 
 then why buy this?! And your right, why should you buy this? The dungeons they added look... simple... 
 i used to play a little WoW and that was what i loved about it... getting a group of good friends 
 and instancing... and it's not the case for this. The mini-games just are what gives it away for 
 how their pushing the series to far, and everything else i'll just leave was mediocre... especially 
 the armor.. that blowed.
  
  I'll just keep my review short and simple. I can't reccommend this game for any reason other than 
 if you really love GW. Prophecies kicked ass, Factions was more novelty fun for the pvp, and Nightfall 
 was just meh... and this is meh with desperate and lackluster add-on's. I'm still really excited 
 for GW2 for new graphics, and also they said their going to make it one world like a normal MMO... 
 so just wait for it... spend that $30 on counter-strike source... or just play on a WoW private 
 server... just really don't spend your money on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: globalheat239
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  It's really nice game and is really the best expansion out of the others although i aswell really 
 enjoyed them i just like how this one added land to tyria the reasone i like this one the most 
 is probally before it i like prophecies the best i also really like the new outposts and town and 
 of course the dungeons. and the new missions and side quests are really fun and keep you playing 
 for hours and the new heroes are awsome and really help full when you cant find the extra group 
 member for a mission. i also really enjoy the mini games wich are really fun and enjoyable when 
 you aint got notin to do or your waitin for a teammate 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brokendog
Rating: 2
Date: Sep 14, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  Dont expect anything new other than the minigames which get repetitive just like everything else 
 in the game. If you're already bored or burned out on the GW series, don't get your hopes up that 
 this will renew any interest in the series. Also adding to the tedium are even more additions of 
 grind by linking titles to armor and skills which require you to mindlessly kill certain types 
 of monsters over and over. The theme here is repetition and boredom.
  
  GW: EN is definately only for the hardcore who dont mind wasting hours and hours doing the same 
 thing over and over again, not just in the expansion but from previous campaigns. I definately 
 can't recommend this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: magicteapot
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 13, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  It's a shame fans have flooded the reviews with more than a little bias here. A review, if you're 
 unfamiliar with their purpose, is to evaluate something from a critical standpoint. Not to give 
 it 13,533,555 out of 10 because you're attracted to the big-breasted character on the box. Ok? 
 Hello? I think you should just throw the box away, really.
  
  Anyway, here's the deal on ArenaNet's 4th commercial offering:
  
  GW: EN (the title appears 
 to be a sort of nod or in-joke involving a character in the game by the way) is the first expansion 
 for level 20 characters. Yes, you could play the previous two chapters in pretty much the same 
 way, but this is the first game Anet has taken to calling an expansion and to show the difference 
 they made it $10 cheaper and much shorter. Huzzah? More like huh? What were they thinking with 
 this idea? Here are some major issues fans have brought up and have received relatively low response 
 to on the forums:
  
  - Armors appear to be reskins . And they aren't very attractive at that, I find myself hard-pressed 
 to want to buy anything other than the admittedly gimmicky new items like bandannas, glasses, and 
 magma gloves. When you look at the actual sets of armor though they don't compare with any of the 
 other games in terms of quality and desirability, they seem mostly plain looking or looking far 
 too much like an ugly knock off of a similar armor in another game.
  
  - The main questline is very short. - There's a reputation grind to open up consumables (booster 
 items you can trade for extra skill points and some crafting materials) , craftable weapons, and 
 armor, with each faction (4 of them) which is not saved account-wide but per character. It also 
 affects the power of the PVE only skills for that faction. This grind is really irritating after 
 awhile since it mainly involves killing every monster in a zone to get points, and doing this over 
 and over at a couple hours per run.
  
  - The loot drops are bad for most people including mainly low level white items that are worth 
 little at the merchants. Rares don't seem to be dropping much outside of dungeon chests.
  
  So what are the positives? Well, the dungeons are a decent addition to the game. Though the traps 
 are simple and repetitive, and even the levels themselves are sometimes reused, there's a certain 
 charm to real dungeon diving for the first time in Guild Wars, even with relatively minor rewards.
 
  
  The Norn area of the game, which is one of the new races, was also a lot of fun, with quests that 
 reflect an introduction of the culture, and getting involved with it. They far outshine the later 
 areas where you'll mostly just be asked to go kill things and not really get to know anything about 
 the Asura, for example. The graphics also receive more love in some areas. Waterfalls and streams 
 have upgraded in some areas (strangely enough, the effects aren't universal though and there's 
 some instances of butt ugly water effects as well) there's nice bump mapping in the Norn lands 
 but not really elsewhere, and in general it feels like this engine is pushed about to it's limits 
 more than past games.
  
  Overall I would say this about GW: EN... why buy it right now? You're not getting anything special 
 at this price. And when you can say that about a game, well then I guess you have to admit that 
 the Guild Wars franchise is sometimes more fan hype powered than must play gaming. It will be interesting 
 with GW2 if they can change this perception by really asking themselves, is this a fun game we're 
 making? Otherwise I see the GW legacy as one of a sort of fantasy gaming nerd subculture that can 
 go toe to toe with the sorts that play MMO's in both keeping a game alive and strange behavior... 
 but great gaming? Not so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blizz_kid
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  There really isn't technically anything BAD about Guild Wars: Eye of the North. It offers a great 
 new story, with a cool new look at two of the upcoming races in Guild Wars 2: The Asura and the 
 Norn.
  
  The story is, for the most part, very well done, with lots of great characters and personalities 
 to encounter along the way, as well as some challenging missions and dungeons that will require 
 you to carefully think about which skills and professions to bring along. The small, extremely 
 intelligent (and rather arrogant) Asurans and the overconfident, yet extremely powerful Norn mix 
 very well into the world, and don't feel tacked on.
  
  Unfortunately, its what's around the story that doesn't really make the expansion feel like anything 
 special.
  
  No new elite skills were added this time around, which was a big dissapointment for me. Also, the 
 armors (well very nice looking and detailed) , are mostly just reskins of old armors. Not to say 
 I hate them, which I don't, but it would've been nice to see some creativity in this department.
 
  
  However, Cracked Armor has been added to the list of conditions and is a pleasing sight on the 
 list of mediocre additions included in the game. Also, the PvE skills for the most part are very 
 neat and fun to use.
  
  Gameplay and the like still remain solid, as they have through Tyria, Cantha, and Elona. The fundamentals 
 of the game haven't changed, which is what keeps Guild Wars fun to play. Some graphics and audio 
 improvements have also been incorporated, and keep the game from getting stale.
  
  All in all, a good expansion. Mainly the peripherals, so to speak, are what keep Eye of the North 
 from being excellent. A solid effort, ANet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raiala
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  The details are wonderfull! The games just so... beautiful! The difficulty is just right, the graphics 
 are wonderfull, includes a lot of new content, you just got to love the minigames, only negative 
 thing I cancome up with is the low amount of snew skills per profession, only 10. The cool PvE-only 
 skill make up for it though, but the expansion seems to be mostly for PvE players, since it includes 
 nearly no new PvP content, except the 10 new skills per profession and the 10 new heros... Well, 
 ArenaNet will propably add some later so not to worry about that. It also ties up most of the loose 
 ends on the lore, although opening twice that much new ones.
  
  Rating 9.5 instead of 10 due to the low amount of new PvP content (yes, I am a PvE player) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodreaverSlut
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 4:46 am PT
Review:  Yes, it is... for the Hardcore Guild Wars players.
  
  Guild Wars: Eye of the Noth (GWEN) is the first (and last) true expansion for Guild Wars. The game 
 is set in Tyria once more, this time however, there are earthquakes all over the world that causes 
 ruptures in the soil, revealing a massive underground cavern that connects to most of the world. 
 From the depths of the earth an army by the name of The Destroyers is marching to the surface to 
 destroy every living thing to make path for The Great Destroyer , the leader of the Destroyers.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay hasnt changed much since day one of it's release. In the standalone expansions (factions 
 and nightfall) new machenics were introduced, like new professions and heroes, this time however, 
 they just added more of the same, but better executed.
  The game still revolves around having 8 skills that you can use against your foes and the auto-attack, 
 nothing has changed. Introduction of the new heroes is unneeded for those that had nightfall, but 
 for those who didnt play that one, it's a nice to have them.
  8
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics of GW have always been sharp and run easily at a high framerate. This time they added 
 some new filters and stuff that allowed for some great effects. Walking through flowerfields and 
 seeing butterflies flying away, makes the game feel that much better. Same goes for running into 
 a burning forest, not only does it burn nicely, it also changes the main colour scheme of the environment, 
 making it that more impressive to run around in.
  The animations are still topnotch, they even added some new ones for the cutscenes, however, these 
 can not be used by yourself, which is a shame.
  9
  
  Sound:
  Pretty much what you would expect. A few changes are ofcourse new music and sounds, but also the 
 dynamic music. When entering battle the music changes to a more combat-like music, which is nice.
 
  8
  
  Value:
  The game is terribly short and the tons of content isnt really living up to it. I found myself 
 running out of decent quests to do, but the dungeons are almost always fun. Unfortunatly though, 
 this expansion is 90% directed to Player vs Environment players (PvE, RP characters) , the only 
 thing the Player vs Player community got with this expansion are 100 new skills (10 for each profession) . 
 7
  
  In conclusion:
  PvE players will totally fall inlove with this game, even I - a GvGer to the bone - enjoyed the 
 PvE this time and it didnt feel as much as a chore as the other games.
  PvP players are best off not buying this game, the skills with this expansion dont add a whole 
 lot of new things and the fact that only 100 skills are PvP skills, makes it even less attractive.
 
  
  so overall:
  PvEers: 9.0
  PvPers: 7.0
  
  However, im putting up my rating for this game more towards the PvE score, eventhough im hardcore 
 PvPer, so overall i give this game a 8.5.
  The PvE in this expansion is better then ever before, but the lack of content and new PvP additions 
 drag the game down.
  
  Still a great game overall and a must have for PvErs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielhumphries
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 12, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  it is a awesome game but it is slightly difficult to comlete all of it but thats not a bad thing 
 it only makes it better well worth binning world of warcraft to play this it should be 20 out of 
 10 it's that good a definate must buy for anyone who knows a good game but then again ot many people 
 who play rubish like world of warcraft dont know a good game when they see one as is obvious by 
 the fact that it's not 10 out of 10 they are just jelious and we all know it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flclempire
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 2:57 pm PT
Review:  Graphics~ The are nice, they have always been nice. The small upgrades to the graphics is kinda 
 noticable, but mainly in certain areas that they spent more time on. Nothing special here, lets 
 move on.
  
  Sounds- I suppose this is better than the preview games' music. The music is dynamic during combat, 
 which just means that the longer you are in combat, the longer this battle music plays. This would 
 be cool but its the same friggin song everytime, its one of the reason I avoid fighting when I 
 can.
  
  Gameplay- Absolutely no improvement. The game adds nothing to pvp except the cracked armor factor, 
 which is pointless. Spike damage and 55 type of strategy still rule the day, its compeltely horrible. 
 The community is almost non-existant. Everything town is full of afk people or people spamming 
 trade messages. You are forced to either join some guild or go everywhere with henchies and heroes 
 (npcs) and they are sooo poor. They go out of their way to run into traps, they dont fight unless 
 you are holding perfectly still or they move to correct their formation, and they can't use moves 
 strategically. Instead of making the enemies more complex and use skill combos, they just jack 
 up their hp, casting/recharge/attack time, and give them infinite mana (basically infinite) . So 
 instead of figuring out how to disable their combos, you just slap on prot spirit so their 400 
 dmg spikes only do 50 dmg. Additions- The hall of monuments is kind of cool, not nearly as cool 
 as they made is sound though. The new heroes look good (cept stonehealer) but the new a. i. upgrade 
 makes henchies better than heroes imo. The new armors... arent new at all. They are just reskins 
 of old armors and it m'er f'in pathetic. The dungeons aren't dungeons, they are just lame areas 
 that have you fight the same group of enemies 36 times over until u do something stupid like lighting 
 a torch to make a chest with a key appear, there is no thought in the dungeons. The new pve skills 
 are kinda cool, but they lower the gameplay seeing as anyone can use them efficiently, its such 
 a bad decision.
  
  Overall~ This game is lame, it may have been decent if there were a different team developing for 
 it, everything I see in this game tells me that Anet is most certainly trying to run their own 
 game into the groups just to make a quick buck off of the bored fanbase. They are sabotaging their 
 own game, its beyong logic... So..... if you like the old gw campaigns, you probably won't like 
 gwen, the only ppl who will actually enjoy the mindless grind-fest that is GWEN are the fanboys, 
 but they don't count :P
  GW is still better than WoW, but the gap is closing with each game release. GW2 won't release, 
 I guarantee it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomjay
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 11, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  All right Guild Wars Eye of the North is the first true expasion to Guild Wars.
  
  Graphics: Guild Wars has always been a nice looking game in the first place this expansion brings 
 that as well as more veriety of things to look at an b4 as u explore caves, norther reachs of the 
 shiverpeaks, the jungle, and the charr homeland and even great art work on the loading screens.
 
  
  Sound: Overall i was absoultly impressed by the sound in Eye of the North giving me what i wanted 
 for so long so dynammic music while fighting the addidtion to the more sound feels great and refreshing.
 
  
  Gameplay: Eye of the north plays much like any of the other Guild Wars games maximum 8 skills set 
 while adventureing the only big change is the addition of more traps, more plaver vs enviroment 
 only skills, repution with the certian fraction is key to obtaining these skills and adding heros 
 for those who didn't have thme in the first place and multi level dungeons.
  
  Overall: Eye of the North is a must for anyone woh has a Guild Wars game and a reason for those 
 who don't to go pick up one get a lvlv 20 charcter and enjoy the unique experience that Guild Wars 
 has to offer. This expansion gives you simply more that players will enjoy in Guild Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blindinglight
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  Can't say much in addition to NCSoft's marketing on this. Opens up more and newer content with 
 smart heroes, smarter AI and mobs. Continues the fun with new races and challenges. Plenty of new 
 skills to round out any character that has completed the other campaigns.
  
  You are still limited to three heroes, but the henchies fare a little better AI now. New puzzles 
 to complete and new rewards that add excitement to the RPG genre.
  New weapons add new flavor and if you like to grind for gold and greens then the new mob and Nornian 
 rewards will give you plenty to to work with. In addition to the heroic rewards for clearing an 
 area, it builds up your reputation with different races.
  
  If you even think you might try Guild Wars 2, and you have put any time at all into any of the 
 other three campaigns, get this so that you might transfer your accomplishments over and take them 
 with you. This is a nice veterans reward system in the Hall of Heroes. Everything from Armor to 
 weapons, titles and pets can be displayed in your own personal Hall of Heroes.
  
  Good fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordDeArnise
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  It has been over 2 1/2 years since Guild Wars first went live with the original Flameseeker Prophecies 
 campaign, 1 1/2 years since the first standalone expansion, Factions, came out, and nearly a year 
 since its previous standalone expansion, Nightfall, went live. With Eye of the North, Guild Wars 
 receive its first true expansion that put high-end characters into challenging battles. With that, 
 and plenty of new skills and challenges to partake, Guild Wars: Eye of the North is a true link 
 between the first Guild Wars series &amp; the upcoming sequel.
  
  What makes Eye of the North a true Guild Wars expansion is simple. First and foremost, you must 
 have one of the three standalones, although it's best to have the original campaign. Second, the 
 character that you plan to take must be at the maximum level of 20. When you meet those requirements, 
 then you can partake the couple of quests that will take you into the area of this latest addition 
 to Guild Wars. Basically, the world of Guild Wars is shaking... literally. Fissures are opening 
 up into underground caverns and buildings outside of Lion's Arch, Kaineng Center, and Kamadan. 
 This opens the way to areas of new and challenging enemies.
  
  The new quests in Eye of the North not only gives reputation, gold, and standard experience points, 
 but some give unique skills as well. You can also gain ranks with a certain reputation to get certain 
 abilities, from increased health, to increased energy. The dungeons of Eye of the North are reasonably 
 challenging, as you'll spend at least an hour in them, battling hordes of high-end foes, then an 
 ultra tough boss. If you can make it, somehow, you'll get a huge amount of experience, plus an 
 item you can get off of the dungeon's treasure chest. Keep in mind that you can only get the chest 
 rewards once per dungeon, per character.
  
  Then there's the Hall of Monuments, where you can use tapestries to open up various parts of the 
 Hall. In there, depending on well you have developed your given character, you can display your 
 collection of minipets, weapons that you've gotten by completing the Eye of the North campaigns, 
 or show your elite armor or that of your heroes. All of them should provide some benefit for your 
 character's descendants in the Guild Wars sequel.
  
  With the new skills, both regular and elite, added in for all classes, it should provide new builds 
 for both PvE and PvP. Speaking of PvP, the arrangement of Hall of Heroes and Favor has changed. 
 You can still earn tournament fame by competing in Heroes' Ascent battles, but now it takes grand 
 achievements to earn the favor of the gods, and it applies for all districts, not just Europe, 
 Korea, Japan, Taiwan, or America (&amp; the rest of the world) alone.
  
  There is no notable improvement in the game's graphics, as many older systems should still be able 
 to run the game. What is notable is that you'll see your character actually walk with the new heroes 
 of Eye of the North. In addition, while you won't have a wide variety of henchmen to use, as you 
 should have a good set of heroes to use by now, you will see them actually communicate with you 
 and with each other. You'll also see two new races be introduced, from the tall, warrior-strength 
 Norn that features Eye of the North's cover girl, Jora; and the small but witty, and intelligent 
 Asura. As with the new foes, you'll find familiar ones like the Charr and the Stone Summit Dwarves, 
 but don't be surprised if one of them isn't what you would otherwise think. The audio is remarkable, 
 once more, as Jeremy Soule did a great job with the background music. You'll hear the Norn speak 
 in Scandanavian accents, which fits their heritage real well. The Asura voices are pretty good 
 too, and can crack a good humor or two.
  
  In all, this true expansion for Guild Wars bring this particular saga to a nice conclusion. You 
 won't get to see what notable heroes like Eve, Devona, Cynn, Mhenlo, and Jora did after the campaign; 
 but you will get a good taste of what you can expect in the sequel. With the intense action that 
 is fitting for a true expansion, and ways to show your achievements to your peers and to other 
 Guild Wars players, you can be certain that you'll be spending plenty of time in Eye of the North. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DBZ-Vegeta
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  I have watched the expansion , i have GW 1 , GW factions and GW nightfall , and maybe so i will 
 have this one because it is very interesting and filled with new items , skills , monsters and 
 levels - I love this but the one problem is that i don't have money to buy it now but later maybe 
 i will have money , i hope this moment comes soon . This expansion looked a little better in graphic 
 and sound but i am not so sure . The story looked 2-3 times more interesting then the previous 
 games ( except Factions - I love this one too ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonorme666
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 7, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  Eye Of The North, Guild Wars first real expansion which consists of high-end content (no n00bie 
 starting areas) is certainly one of the most rewarding campaigns yet for veteran players.
  
  Not only are the graphics and scenary stunning, the music very fitting and greatly composed 
 and the voice acting and cinematics very much improved there are lots of little additions that 
 i'd certainly like to see crossed over to past GW campaigns.
  
  The introduction of bare knuckle boxing and polymock, two mini games that help in breaking up questing 
 are a great addition.
  
  The missions flow very well into the storyline, I found myself completeing missions without even 
 knowing that they were as they are fitted in seamlessly.
  
  Dungeons are one of the great additions to Guild Wars, 17 or so dungeons with upto 5 levels to 
 explore, each with a unique chest at the end.
  Think of them as your World Of Warcraft instances, only fun.
  Dungeons make for great fun with 
 friends or fellow guild members, their designs are interesting so you will come back to play again 
 and again to get that unique green item, rare crafting material, polymock piece or even one of 
 those miniatures you get every year.
  
  Of course, GW: EN also introduced new races, although not playable they will join you as Heroes.
 
  
  There is alot ot get on with in Eye Of The North, and unlike Factions you don't feel railed. From 
 the start you are pretty much free to explore wherever you like. New title tracks are also an addition, 
 each like the lightbringer title track give you a unique enchantment which really do help. Not 
 only that, but by completing quests you get PvE only skills, many of which will really help out 
 when vanquishing areas or hard mode in past campaigns.
  
  Guild Wars Eye Of The North is definatly the most rewarding Guild Wars yet, and clearly shows the 
 direction of where Guild Wars 2 is heading, and if ArenaNet / NCSoft keep this up, its going to 
 make for one hell of a game.
  
  But lets hope that this isn't it for the original Guild Wars, its going to be a long wait for GW2, 
 and now with this dungeon system introduced it leaves the game open for designers to add as much 
 content as they like (due to dungeons being underground) . You never know, we make get some Free 
 Updates like Sorrows Furnace .
  
  - Jason Orme Aka Pinhead The Undying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7_armageddon_7
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Once again Arenanet has supplied everyone with a great MMO experience. The Guild Wars series truly 
 embodies gameplay for any type of individual: a casual players need not grind through hundreds 
 and thousands of hours to obtain a great character; hardcore gamers can appreciate the of PvE and 
 PvP gameplay available. Indeed, in terms of scope and scale, this game probably rivals RPGs such 
 as Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. Eye of the North presents veterans of the three previous campaigns 
 with a bold new storyline and plenty of new challenges. It must be said that although the focus 
 of past campaigns have been both PvP and PvE, GW: EN narrows its goal down to providing high level 
 PvE questing and dungeon crawling. This is not a bad change after having three whole other campaigns 
 to move our heroes through!
  
  The most surprising improvement in GW: EN is its sound design. I liked all three scores for the 
 other campaigns, but once I started playing this expansion, I immediately took notice to the music 
 and its role in the game. Unlike Prophecies, Factions or Nightfall, the music during simple traveling 
 and tense combat is different. The pace of the music quickens as you slaughter Charr, giving the 
 entire scene a more exciting feeling. Also, the music seems to generally fit very well with the 
 setting of this new expansion. I really don't know how to describe it, but it's a pleasure to listen 
 to. Another little detail I like is that when your character speaks to NPCs, it responds with an 
 audible line. This touch seems to make a world of difference in bringing the world to life since, 
 before, NPCs would act like NPCs in that they didn't say anything; they just stood there... kinda 
 lifeless, if you ask me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdotc45
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  This new Guild Wars is perfect for vets of the game that want more content in their PvE experience. 
 GW: EN introduces many new things to Guild Wars, including new mini games, such as Polymock and 
 brass knuckle boxing, both of which are fun in their own right. Also, the way missions are set 
 up has been changed drastically, now flowing from quests instead of the old town setting. This 
 expansion also introduces 4 new types of elite armor, one for each race you can earn reputation 
 points for (Asura, Norn, Vanguard, and Deldrimor) . If this is the last game before GW2 arrives, 
 then ArenaNet has suceeded in going out nicely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxrulze
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 6, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars has been around for a while now, and the community has grown and expanded consistantly 
 since its first release. Eye of the North is the first official expansion in the series, and caters 
 entirely to the veterans of the game boasting 18 multi level dungeons, and a whole new area of 
 the map to explore from the original Guild Wars game. Speaking of the map, this expansion all but 
 doubles the size of the original. Spanning this massive addition are dungeons, towns and outposts. 
 With a whole whack of new quests, armor, weapons, and skills, those who have a level 20 character 
 can now put them to good use in a world created just for them.
  
  Graphically, Eye of the North polishes up even more from the previous entries. Though the series 
 has never been technically speaking a ground breaker, artistically speaking, the world is stunning. 
 Rolling hills, vast fields, lush greenery, eye catching architecture, and a brilliant skyline bring 
 together the style that Guild Wars is known for. With all of its beauty, it doesn't manage to become 
 a major system hog which is one of its major perks. Even with high settings, low end pc's can manage 
 the game without any major hiccups.
  
  The music has always been a major point of the series, and this installment adds to the already 
 impressive track. This time around you get dynamic music meaning when the battle gets going the 
 music picks up and goes either way depending on how you are doing. Down to the last party member? 
 The music will reflect that with a slower, sappier feeling, really pulling you into the battle 
 sequences more than ever.
  
  This is really a game for the veterans though, and it shows. If you are not at least a decently 
 seasoned player, you will have a very hard time indeed. The enemy AI has been vastly improved, 
 and if you can't keep up and control your own heros, or have a solid communication with your human 
 partners, you will be beaten pretty badly in spots. On top of the new AI there are environmental 
 hazards this time around. Think you are going to get around that dungeon without a worry in the 
 world? You won't say that when you get fried by a fire trap, or stung by a rolling bolder out of 
 nowhere. You really have to be on your toes, and at the top of your game if you plan on doing well.
 
  
  All in all Guild Wars: Eye of the North is the expansion veterans of the game were waiting for. 
 It builds on the already solid foundation started by the previous entries, and brings a huge chunk 
 of content to the table. If you are a big fan of the series with a high level character, this game 
 will fill the gap and keep you going into the next generation of Guild Wars to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon247uk
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2007 10:25 am PT
Review:  Eye of the North is the last installment in the epic series of Guild Wars till GW2 comes out late 
 2008. It follows your character as it allies with the Norn, Ebon Vanguard and the Asura who will 
 help you bring down the Great Destroyer who was previously thought to be nothing but an exaggerated 
 dwarvern legend. The whole expansion is aimed at existing lvl 20 players so Anet has finally managed 
 to eliminate that annoying starter area that spoiled the game for many. No-longer is it the fast 
 paced levelling that players found on Factions that gave the game it's low rating. A series of 
 Earthquakes from deep below the surface of Tyria (the world that is, not the continent) has shook 
 the very foundations that life had evolved around for centuries. Multiple crevasses have opened 
 up in the crust revealing a whole new set of caverns and dungeons to explore. When your character 
 arrives in these characters for the first time, you find that they have already been over-run by 
 undead and other creatures from hell. Despite this, you continue on through the caverns until you 
 find a party of dwarves and a lone asura trying to block off the crevasses and caverns from the 
 world above. In true Guild Wars fashion, just before everything gets blown to shreds the new enemy 
 arrives, the Destroyers. Fleeing for your life, you find yourself in the Far shiverpeaks, inhabited 
 by the viking-like race called the Norns. Able to transform themselves into bears, the Norns are 
 a proud race of people who have learnt how to hunt and kill as a basic way to survive.
  
  Soon after you find the Eye of the North and your very own Hall of Achievements. Players who have 
 the first installment, Prophecies, will also remember the annoying little girl Gwen who has grown 
 up to become one of the most respected members and potential leaders of the Ebon Vanguard. The 
 Eye of the North later turns out to be a pool of water that grants visions to you and your characters.
 
  
  Anyway, your character continues on through the Charr Homelands, Tarnished Coast and the other 
 new areas recruiting more heroes and species to help defeat the Great Destroyer.
  
  In my opinion this is the best Guild Wars game to date and I can't wait till Anet release Guild 
 Wars 2, potentially the best game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fang_lord
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  Hey GS,
  
  Well, i have every guild wars game thats been released (Guild wars, Factions, Nightfall, Eye of 
 the North) and this is a very interesting, and different title compared to the others. Check out 
 the appropriate sections to see why.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Iv always loved the graphics in Guild wars, i play with max on everything, X4 anti aliasing and 
 best textures and what ever else you can turn on. This is very easily done thanks to the spec, 
 its rather low, so most PC's can play on Medium if not High.
  
  Do not mistake the low spec for bad graphics, the graphics are really, really good. Theres reflections 
 on water, full motion shadows, dynamic lighting, and with the new expansion, some really really 
 good looking fire. Defiantly a good point.
  
  SOUND
  
  Theres improved sound track, good sound track, just a good musical and sound achievement really, 
 not much else to say.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Unlike most MMORPG's, Guild Wars is VERY skill based, i mean yeah most mmoepgs are, but this takes 
 it to a new level. You are alowed only 8 skills at one time, and only a party of 8. So, unlike 
 say WoW where you have like 40 skills and 100 man raids, this is much, much harder to master as 
 you cannot go alone, unless you are really good and make a mega build. Another thing to make this 
 game stand out is its Level Cap. Its max level is 20. Which is GREAT! No uber grinding sessions, 
 you can be at max level in a week or so. This add difficulty as some enemies are 5-10 levels higher 
 than you! And you can fully explore the max level content without having to endlessly grind and 
 grind until you want to kill your self.
  
  In eye of the north, you MUST be a lvl 20 character, so its almost like the LVL 20's playground 
 so to speak. Also, unlike NF and Factions it is VERY PVE based, but this is also its weakness, 
 as it is very, very short in terms of main story. But, there is LOADS of side missions, dungeons 
 and mini games to do... like Boxing, Polymock, and Tornement fighting against the NPCs. With the 
 addition of 10 new heros, you can make a party into watever you want.
  
  The addition of the hall of monuments is really cool aswell, progressing through the story gives 
 the opporyunity of adding taperstries to your walls, which alow you to show case your weapons, 
 armour, heros, pets etc, which all contribute towards GW2 in some way.
  
  There are loads of new weapons, armours, and Skills, so theres a load of new content added to the 
 game. A must buy for any guild wars user, and for any1 who wants to give the game ago. But PVPers 
 beware... this is not meant for you lol... not enough skills to keep you happy... but enough to satisfy 
 you for a few days or so i guess.
  
  Great game... although flawed in some aspects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazilla
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing these games since Prophecies came out. With the exception of Factions, I have 
 been impressed more with each successive game, and Eye of the North (GWEN for short) is no exception. 
 While GWEN is only called an expansion because you need one of the original three games and a level 
 20 character to play it, this game feels like a full-fledged stand alone game. There is a lot of 
 meat on this bone. Each area has its own unique feel. The quests have real rewards, and the dungeons 
 offer great rewards for replayability, and there are enough of them, that getting bored won't happen 
 to you anytime soon. The fact that this game is free to play after you purchase it earns it points 
 with me as well. I will set the value bar to 10 for this one. It also helps that if you purchase 
 this expansion from the online store, you will receive a bonus mission pack that will tie in all 
 of the previous campaigns together. It will offer a lot of backstory, and its completely free if 
 you purchase GWEN or make a $30 purchase or more from the on-line store. There are more titles 
 now as well. The titles give you bonuses in certain areas of the game. The higher your title, the 
 higher the bonus. When you achieve certain ranks, you are able to purchase various armors, weapons, 
 and consumable items as well. It makes it nice to get the armors here. You don't just have to get 
 to the armor crafting outpost here. You actually have to earn your armor. Speaking of armor, there 
 are also universal armor pieces in this game that all characters and professions can wear. The 
 new heroes in GWEN are a big part of the story this time around. The graphics look cleaner, there 
 is a hall of monuments in this game that really give you an incentive to earn all of those title 
 for the upcoming release of Guild Wars 2, where you can take some pre-existing material into GW2 
 and have a head start over others. I can't recommend this game enough. If you own one of the previous 
 Guild Wars games and have a level 20 character, dust it off and strap it on! If you have never 
 played Guild Wars, buy one of the games, get it to level 20 and send me a shout! Let's game it 
 up, yo! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattzone0872
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 5, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  Graphics -- I like the new graphics... There hasn't been any significant changes to the graphic system 
 but given (in my opinion) that GW is one of the great looking games out there, I am not surprised 
 that the graphics have not changed much. However, the little changes (water, mountains, fire, etc...) 
 that they added make u feel more immersive to GWEN world.
  
  Sounds -- The sound system has been improved compared to the previous campaigns that really make 
 u feel like you are interacting with the environment and the NPCs.
  
  Storyline -- I agree that the main storyline is way too short. GWEN is an introduction to GW2 and 
 it seems like each of the races is pretty distrusting of the other races. Anet made it way too 
 easy to gain allies with them... hence the storyline are not as interesting as it could be. Balance -- It's 
 great that they have increased AI for monsters so that the more experienced players can feel challenged. 
 However, they completely leave the AI of heroes intact. It's dumb how heroes and henchmen are always 
 staying so closed together... they get wiped in seconds when monsters use area damage spells/skills 
 on them. Even when u flag them, they still come together. It's ridiculous how monsters (supposedly 
 unintelligent creatures) are smarter than heroes ( intelligent'' humans) Hall of Monument -- The 
 HoM is a little frustrating... It's ridiculous how u can only display destroyers' weapons and nothing 
 else. All of the other items (elemental swords, torment, etc...) that are much rarer than destroyers' 
 cannot be display which makes the time u spend in the other campaigns collecting rare items a waste. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwlettsome
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 5, 2007 5:55 am PT
Review:  Overall GW: EN is not a bad game. Parts of it are by far the best PvE experience that GW has presented 
 yet. Yet the sum of the parts is less then the individual pieces.
  
  What's good? The main story arc feels more interested and better fleshed out then the previous 
 stand alone chapters. The music is very good. The dungeon crawls are pretty good. There have been 
 a good number of player groups doing most quests which is a nice change since the introduction 
 of heroes cut back the number of player groups pretty drastically. The graphics look very good.
 
  
  What's not so good? This thing is really, really short. I am referring to the main story line which 
 to be fair in every GW game generally feels like an excuse to move you around the map instead of 
 integral part of your character's development. With all the side quests and mini-games there is 
 a good amount of content but I always have an issue that if I can finish the game then how much 
 point is there to the rest of the content? Each player will form their own opinion on that but 
 again it points to the issue that the main story line is not well integrated into the game which 
 has been a consistent issue with GW. I have not come across or heard about any new PvP content. 
 None. Final two issues, first the loot drops are lousy in a game notorious for stingy loot GW: EN 
 sets a new standard. And lastly the biggest flaw in this game is that it is structured so that 
 the heart of this game is grind for points. As with all grinding activities the player of course 
 can choose not to do them but all the main quests, dungeons, titles, etc. for GW: EN are built around 
 the premise that the player will spend a good chunk of time grinding points. GW: EN is nice enough 
 to give you a couple of ways to do that, but the whole thing feels like ANET copped out and to 
 save time, money and effort they built the whole thing around grinding instead of creating real 
 content. Sorry ANET but this does not feel like it's worth $40. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indigoAK200
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 4, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  Good
  
  Subtle visual improvements make the game world stand out better; audio presentation has been greatly 
 improved; cinematic presentation in cut scenes feels much more involved instead of scripted; new 
 armor sets are good looking.
  
  Bad
  
  Expansion suffers from frustrating balance issues; difficulty needs some major tuning; many of 
 the quests are trial and error affairs; dungeon mechanic is shallow and not very interesting; main 
 storyline is short; new areas added to the map feel tacked on instead of part of the existing world; 
 monster AI is greatly improved, but Hero AI has been left untouched; Hall of Monuments feature 
 is lackluster and disappointing; the arrival of Gwen is uninteresting due to pre-release advertising; 
 new features like the brawling mini-game feel unfinished and suffer from frustrating mechanics.
 
  
  Story
  
  Serving as a bridge between the storylines of the original Guild Wars campaigns and Guild Wars 
 2, which is due sometime in 2008, Eye of the North tells the story of the struggle between the 
 Dwarves, Asurans, Humans, and Sylvari against the terror of the Destroyers  an ancients race thats 
 rising from the depths of the world to destroy all living life. In all honesty, this seems to be 
 a recurring plot mechanism for the writers at ArenaNet because its used to some extent in every 
 campaign the company has done  its a major mechanic in Nightfall  and by now the idea that theres 
 some terrible monsters chasing you through the underground has become a little dull.
  
  Perhaps the main reason this is so is because by the time the main storyline in Eye of the North 
 is over, youll get the feeling that none of it was really fleshed out as well as it could have 
 been. This is because the storyline is actually stretched out over four different branches. Early 
 on in your adventure, you come across a point where you have to choose which branch to do first. 
 Each branch pertains to a different race and each one of them are incredibly short in their own 
 right. Theyre over before you know it and once you hit the end, youll be hard pressed not to 
 say to yourself, Thats it? If this isnt enough to make you wonder why ArenaNet didnt spend 
 more time on Eye of the North, the entire expansion can easily be finished in less than a single 
 day for those dedicated enough to Guild Wars to do so and even those that arent can finish it 
 in two.
  
  To the games credit though, the guys over at ArenaNet have actually learned one good thing and 
 thats how to finally make good cinematic scenes. While the first three Guild Wars campaigns were 
 laden with scenes that felt scripted and lifeless, Eye of the North makes use of many more camera 
 angles and characters expressions to get the job done. All of the cinematic scenes are started 
 with a name like an act in a play and none of them make use of that Meanwhile business that 
 used so heavily before Eye of the North. These cinematic scenes feel much more involved and exciting.
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  The core Guild Wars gameplay remains wholly intact in Eye of the North and there are very few additions 
 to the formula. One of those very additions is the Hall of Monuments. Billed as a way for your 
 characters achievements in Guild Wars to be brought over to your future characters in Guild Wars 
 2, the system ultimately feels rushed and incomplete. It also feels frustrating. Over the course 
 of the storyline in Eye of the North, youll be given tapestries that you must hang on one of the 
 five areas of the hall. Hanging a tapestry unlocks that area for use; they allow you to do things 
 like display your favorite heroes or all of the miniature pets youve collected over the course 
 of your adventure. The problem is that many of these are extremely frustrated and hard to make 
 use of. The hero area for instance requires the heroes you want to display to be fully decked out 
 in upgraded hero armor, which is extremely rare in the Nightfall game and many of the people playing 
 the game dont have it as its a unique item. Or the miniature area for example which customizes 
 the miniature to whatever character places the miniature in the area  which makes it impossible 
 afterwards for any of your other characters to use it.
  
  The other main new feature in Eye of the North is the inclusion of a brawling mini-game. In this 
 mini-game, your character must leave their party and generally venture into an area teeming with 
 deadly monsters with only a burly dwarf by its side. The catch is that youre only allowed to use 
 skills that are specially designed for this brawling mini-game and for these skills to actually 
 work, you must have sort of knuckle weapon equipped. The majority of these mini-game quests are 
 master quests, so you can expect to die at least a few times going through them, but theres another 
 catch. When you die during the mini-game, a countdown starts and youre told to spam a certain 
 skill that raises your energy. If you manage to fill your energy bar completely for the timer runs 
 down, youll stand back up with full health and energy and go back into the fray. Theres only 
 one small problem  the timer countdown starts before you actually have access to the skill so 
 most of the time youll only have 7 or 6 seconds to actually fill up your energy bar. For players 
 with an extremely large energy bar, this can be and probably will be extremely frustrating.
  
  For those players looking for a casual experience, Eye of the North really isnt the place 
 to go looking for it. The expansion suffers from some pretty bleak balance issues due to the changes 
 in enemy AI and the lack of changes in Hero AI. One of the new features in Eye of the North is 
 that the enemy Ai is now more capable of choosing and using more complicated skill builds and knowing 
 which skills to use against more complicated human and hero builds. The problem in this is that 
 the same changes were not made to the Hero AI. All through Eye of the North, Heroes will have a 
 tough time combating these new changes are their AI simply isnt strong enough to keep track of 
 all of the new things that enemy AI is capable of doing. The result is a large unbalance and a 
 lot of frustration as its now all too common that your entire party will wipe a large number of 
 times trying to fight a certain group of well built enemies.
  
  Presentation
  
  In terms of visual presentation, Eye of the North adds some subtle additions that make many of 
 the new areas stand out a little better than the areas in the previous campaigns. Many of the new 
 areas are more expansive and snowy areas seem to have a few shader tweaks which makes the textures 
 look more life-like. The downside to expansive areas though is that Guild Wars method of blurring 
 distant object and the short draw distance for things like shrubs and grass now stands out like 
 a sore thumb. There are lots of instances of object popping into view, which is a little distracting. 
 Other than these small changes, the visual presentation is largely unchanged from previous campaigns.
 
  
  On the audio side of things, Eye of the North adds selection chatter to NPCs. While this feature 
 isnt a groundbreaking addition, it makes thing feel a little bit more immersing. The music in 
 Eye of the North also warrants special merit as its much more complex and rousing than the music 
 featured in the previous campaigns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TUnified
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  Each new Guild Wars has always brought exciting new adventures and multitudes of content to the 
 players. I have never been wrong to assume that the next Guild Wars is worth it's price. If you 
 are a Guild Wars fan, this is a must have expansion.
  
  The unfortunate thing, and it gets more nagging with every Guild Wars game, is the level cap. I 
 have three level 20 characters that I play consistently, two of them are two years old, and the 
 other is one. And yet most of the quests' rewards is experience. Yes, you do get a skill point 
 for the each level you raise even after 20, but I get the urge to strangle the designers for not 
 offering awards in addition to experience for those who are at level 20. Like gold.
  
  For example. I finished a very difficult quest that took me about 50 minutes, it was grueling and 
 frustrating, and what is my reward? 15,000 experience. WTF! I didn't even get to a new area, or 
 find some great treasure, It made the whole experience very unsatisfying.
  
  Anyways, it is still a fun game, lots of new ways to dress up your character, but you have to do 
 a lot of quests first to raise your titles in order to access those armor. Lots of dungeons to 
 explore, and Polymock is fun also but I wish it was a little bit more expansive, the only ways 
 you can get Polymock pieces is by completing the high-level dungeons, or the Polymock quests, which 
 you need really good pieces for anyways.
  
  Gameplay: Anyone familiar with the Guild Wars games will feel right at home, intuitive interface, 
 customizable, easy to navigate. Some really fun minigames like Polymock and Dwarven boxing. Lots 
 of new skills and even skills that don't have a prerequisite. There are plenty of things to do 
 if you're getting bored of the main quests.
  
  Sound: Some new sounds for skills, the music is invigorating, I like listening to it. Sometimes 
 the upbeat battle music doesn't kick in at all during fights.
  
  Graphics: Still the same old Guild Wars graphics, but still very beautiful, they have definitely 
 held up over time. Some great new textures, like the charr homelands, beautiful autumn landscape.
 
  
  Bottom Line: Any true Guild Wars fan will no doubt enjoy this large expansion, so long as you can 
 get past the frustrating level cap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dennis8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 4:27 am PT
Review:  *i recount my experience from my play instead of writing a formal review, because i cannot explain 
 in words the fun i have experienced from playing the game...... Thank You...
  --I got my key yesterday and went all out in GW. First thing i did was go to lions arch and get 
 the quest from that caldoron guy. Then i went out through north kryta province and found the crevasse. 
 After going in i fought some Krytan undead and marveled at the gigantic underground passage that 
 led me to a group of dwarves. After a short cutscene i was chased by a group of fearsome looking 
 destroyers, you have around 3 minutes to get to the asura gate before they lop off your head. After 
 around 2 mins i reached the gate and another cutscene popped up. After that your at the first outpost.. 
 That was a pretty action packed start from the new xpansion :D. After that, i had to go to the 
 Eye of the North, a human settlement where we met a character familiar to those who played the 
 first campaign of the series. Then you find out that the destroyers want to destroy all races of 
 the world so you basically have to get help from the norn, asuras, and humans. It isnt easy as 
 you think cuz you have to complete a chain of quests for each of the 3 races. And mind you its 
 fun. Before heading off though, i played a few minigames at Gunnars Hold, a major city. Theres 
 one minigame npc whose habits may be familiar to players of World of Warcraft. Kilroy Stoneskin 
 is one hot headed dwarf who's minigames focus on boxing up people. When you start a boxing minigame, 
 your skills are replaced with brawling skills, and each skill has a unique function, like dodging, 
 damage dealing, knockdown, and a certain skill u use to get up when u get KO'ed. The first minigame 
 has you boxing with a group of Norn, after you beat that, you have to help Kilroy beat up a bunch 
 of Stone Summit dwarves who owe him money (yes, they owe him money) . One thing that made me lol 
 was when he shouts Kiiillrrooooy Stooneeskiiiiin which gives you a gigantic buff. The next part 
 of the minigame was to beat up the champion norn and u get the thunderfist knuckles. The other 
 minigame was a tournament and then u fignt Magni Bison (errr sounds alot like M. Bison from the 
 street fighter games) Some characters in the tournament become your heroes if you beat them, and 
 one of them gave me a book on how to hatch my own moa bird lol. After a lot of playing around i 
 decided to check out the world itself. I went out of Gunnars Hold and travelled. The enemies seem 
 smarter to me, as they now actually try to flank you. Some enemies dont really look like enemies 
 at first. Like while i was travelling, i saw this little bunny, as i went toward it, it led me 
 through to a beautiful tree surrounded by lots of flowers and plants. When i got close, GOSH, ghosts 
 and specters came out of nowhere and murdered our group..... awesome experience though :D Then 
 i tried this master quest at Eye of the North, u have to defend the place from waves of centaur. 
 Me and my group camped near the ramp and then the pesky centaurs came. Most were just level 8's 
 at first, no problem. Then another group, and another group, yet another group, and a snowball 
 lol, yes a snowball. Me and my group were laughing at it and we were right in its path. Then, half 
 of our party died lol. Little touches that Anet have made to the game surely bring up a great experience. 
 Though, our party never won (after 11 tries) we still came out happy, and bruised. I finally decided 
 to do the main quest and WOW, voice acting is actually pretty good this time ( i couldnt believe 
 my ears when i heard the Brain ) . The difficulty is also cranked up a bit, obviously because its 
 for the veteran players. One of the quests had us going to a dungeon to close a Asura gate where 
 the destroyers were pouring out from. We had to use certain transformation skills to avoid being 
 knocked down while closing the gate, all in all a success. We also had to bash down blockades with 
 our newly acquired bear skills and beat down hordes of the charr. This is as far as I've got for 
 now and its been a pretty good ride. The only negative thing i can say is that the hall of monuments 
 isnt what i expected it to be as of now. As well as people are selling endgame greens for like 
 100k hehe (but thats economy i guess lol) . But wow.. i just barely scratched the surface of the 
 game and I'm already enjoying it. Good job Anet for making the best game in the series and i hope 
 you make GW2 as enjoyable a experience. To the players, all i can say is get the game if you've 
 got the money!!! (And to haters, please try the game, u mite like it...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarevoc1
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2007 6:42 pm PT
Review:  I have to say I am very impressed so far by Eye of the North. I always thought the story in the 
 original (Prophecies) campaign was good. This expansion seems to have returned to that story except 
 they made the pve about 10X more fun to play. The graphics and maps in this expansion are beautiful 
 and the new monsters are very impressive. As long as Anet keeps making these games, I will definitely 
 keep playing them. I would recommend this game as well as the entire Guild Wars collection to anyone 
 who enjoys MMOs but doesn't want to dedicate their entire life to playing one (eh hem... WoW) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crypt_mx
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 2, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars : Eye Of The North, right off the bat throws you into an action packed adventure. In 
 this latest expansion you will encounter some strange races and some strange new creatures. Like 
 the smart and small Asura or the big and tough Norn. There is 3 acts to the game, but the main 
 goal is to stop the Great Destroyer from destroying Tyria.
  
  Graphics- Since it is an expansion, graphics have not changed that much, but they have made smaller 
 improvements on the world effects like rain and fire. But even though Graphics havent changed much, 
 that isnt a bad thing. Guild Wars originally had good graphics to begin with, easily beating out 
 other MMO's like WoW, Star Wars Galaxies, Everquest and more.
  
  Gameplay-This is probably the most open Guild Wars game ever. It lets you do quests in any order, 
 from any race, whenever you want to. The new creatures lead to more combat options and the new 
 skills help you improve you character. The game remains fast paced and action packed which is a 
 great thing for any game.
  
  Story- The story is good, not amazing but just really good.
  
  Value- If not rushed this game will give you some solid playing time and is extreamly enjoyable 
 for any Guild Wars fan.
  
  Bad things about the game-
  No pvp additions, you need PvP in a game which is called Guild Wars .
  There are many mini games 
 that would be fun with other people, instead you must fight a bunch of NPC's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arnavdesai
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  I am biased towards Guild Wars and that is my disclaimer before you read the rest of my review.
 
  That being said I cannot help wonder how anybody cannot have fun with this expansion. Strictly 
 aimed at current players of Guild Wars this expansion undoubtedly is the most fun of the lot. Extending 
 all positive aspects of their previous campaigns and removing most of the negative ones this is 
 one serious game. The content is as much as one should expect since from an expansion but this 
 is all high level content and fun. The mini games are just fun to break the usual questing and 
 saving the world routine. The dialogs used by the NPC's are really funny and filled with pop references. 
 The cutscenes are really well done compared to the previous campaigns are also fun. The PvE skill 
 arent really too overpowered but make the battles that much more interesting since I believe for 
 the first time the developers have really given some awesome team builds which makes the creatures 
 not overpowered but smarter making one really think about how you want to kill creatures and in 
 which order all the time protecting your team. The only thing I was somewhat disappointed was the 
 Hall of Monuments which wasnt all that. They did fix some small things with it but overall not 
 that much. Overall this is a must buy if you are in any way interested in the Guild Wars franchise 
 and I can assure you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TurtleMilk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 2:23 am PT
Review:  The first expansion for Guild Wars gives players countless hours of solid, immersive entertainment. 
 It improves on existing gameplay elements, but adds a plethora of additions as well.
  
  Dungeons:
  
  Eye of the North lets players participate in the ultimate dungeon-crawler experience 
 - 18 times! Each unique, massive, multi-level dungeon has the classics: secrets to find, puzzles 
 to solve, traps to avoid, monsters to kill, chests to open, quests to complete, titles to gain, 
 lore to discover, keys to find and doors to unlock. And, like any classical dungeon, there are 
 plenty of powerful bosses, with a final boss at the end of each dungeon to slay and loot.
  
  Dungeons can also be fought over from multiple perspectives - there are no linear paths that 
 the player is forced to follow.
  
  Hall of Monuments:
  
  When the developers announced they were going to create Guild Wars 2, they didnt want players 
 to feel as if all the experience, armor, weapons, titles, faction, and everything else that they 
 worked so hard for would simply be overwritten (Burning Crusade anyone?) . To prevent this, they 
 created the Hall of Monuments.
  
  The Hall of Monuments is where a players character can go to get his or her achievements recognized 
 and put on display. When Guild Wars 2 is released, those who have achievements on display in the 
 Hall of Monuments will be rewarded in Guild Wars 2.
  
  Displaying achievements is simple. For example, if you conquered the campaign in Tyria, you can 
 display a statue that recognizes the achievement. If you unlocked certain heroes, you can display 
 statues which will recognize the achievement. The Hall of Monuments lets the player recognize a 
 whole bunch of different achievements such as received armor, weapons, titles and minipets.
  
  Story:
  
  Eye of the North has an interesting story for players to become immersed in. 
 Much like dungeons, the story can be followed by any perspective - there is no linear path that 
 the player is forced to go by. It introduces three new races to the game (Asura, Norn, Charr) which 
 will be playable in Guild Wars 2.
  
  Basically, the story revolves around earthquakes which have been shattering over the land, and 
 how you have been sent to investigate the cause. You discover that the Destroyers are the source 
  the Destroyers are creatures from the depths that have arisen to the surface to destroy all of 
 mankind. You discover the Asurans, a race forced to the surface because of the destroyers, and 
 you discover the Norns, a race that dwells far in the Northern Shiverpeaks. You are also able to 
 visit the Charr homeland, and discover, you guessed it, the fate of Gwen!
  
  Factions:
  
  Factions play a significant role in the game's story - there are multiple factions, and each 
 race has a faction associated with it. Each faction will give you access to unique consumables, 
 armor, weapons, skills and titles depending on your reputation with them. There are unique ways 
 to raise your reputation with each faction. For example, if you want to become more popular with 
 the Asurans, you can outsmart them by playing Polymock, a minigame which is similar to the classic 
 Pokemon battles. If you want to become more popular with the Dwarves, you can best them in Dwarven 
 Boxing minigame. If you want to become more popular with the Norn, you can prove your worth by 
 defeating challengers in the Fighting Tournaments.
  
  Graphics/Environment:
  
  Graphically, the developers have sure outdone themselves! The artwork of the gameworld, especially 
 of the dungeons, is absolutely breathtaking. The scenery alone makes you glad that you play Guild 
 Wars and feel sorry for those who don't. It makes you feel as if those who aren't playing Guild 
 Wars are really missing out on an awesome and unique experience.
  
  But breathtaking graphics isn't going to save a dull environment that the players cannot interact 
 with - and the developers knew this. They have made a lot of improvements to the environment, making 
 it as fun to play in as possible. For example, you may run up a hill to reach a boss, only to have 
 an enormous boulder roll down and crush your party. Or you may wander into a cave inhabited by 
 a pack of wolves, find their pack leader, and kill it. Heck, there's even a cute little rabbit 
 that lures you into a beautiful garden... only to get ambushed by a whole bunch of ghostly enemies.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The developers have taken a bunch of steps to ensure that the gameplay is fresh and exciting. Several 
 monsters have their own signature abilities. For example, the Charr have the Gloat ability, which 
 makes them more effective in combat as they kill enemies. The Centaurs have the Trample ability, 
 which does damage to adjacent enemies and knocks them down, and Minotaurs have the Berserk ability, 
 which makes them do extra damage when their health gets low.
  
  The A. I. of the enemies has also been greatly improved. Several enemies fight in formations - and 
 it's really quite exciting to fight them when they do so. They will maneuver around you and your 
 allies in formations, which forces you to think quicker on your feet, and moreso about tactics.
 
  
  In terms of difficulty, the game is, generally speaking, hard. Although there are a good numbers 
 of parts which can be extremely easy, Eye of the North was designed for veteran players. A lot 
 of areas, especially the dungeons, can be extremely challenging.
  
  Sound:
  
  Another addition to Guild Wars is the Dynamic Music System. When the player is in a town, there 
 will be soft, serene music. When the player is thrown into the combat, the music quickly becomes 
 very loud and fast-paced. When the player is fighting a losing battle, the music becomes emotional 
 and sad. Such a feature adds a great amount of depth into the game, which adds that much of the 
 fun factor to the game.
  
  The voiceovers have also been done very well  this time by real actors. In fact, the voice actor 
 of Vekk (an Asuran) was done by The Brain from the classic show Pinky and the Brain.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Eye of the North was designed solely for veteran players and their level 20 
 characters. Only get it if you have a level 20 character. Eye of the North delivers a whole bunch 
 of improvements and content to the game  whats not to like? If you like Guild Wars, youll like 
 Eye of the North, I promise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Ripper
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  The Guild Wars formula lives on. The high level content is just what this game needed; a challenge 
 for the experienced players. Returning to Tyria and exploring new areas of the continent make EoTN 
 a nostalgic experience. Seeing returning characters always give you smile and make you remember 
 the good ol' days.
  
  New areas to explore, new items find, new heroes to acquire, brand new dungeons to ravage and continuation 
 of the original storyline will keep players busy for another year and a half or so until GW 2 is 
 released. Looking forward to investing my time into this one. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
