-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Guild Wars Factions
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/rpg/guildwarsfactions/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Intriguing action RPG gameplay gets your pulse racing but keeps you thinking.
 Enormous gameworld offers a ton of competitive and cooperative action.
 Interesting and dynamic new mission types, including frontline alliance battles.
 Stand-alone game that's substantially enhanced if you own the original.
 Great presentation and a sleek game engine.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Despite the multiplayer focus, communicating with other players feels clunky.
 The most enticing new content caters mostly to the hardcore.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  6, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.5, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 4,601 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: NCsoft
Developer: ArenaNet
Genre: Role-Playing
Date:     Apr 28, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The follow-up to the innovative Guild Wars features a large new fantasy world to explore and enough 
 competitive and cooperative role-playing action to easily keep you busy for weeks. 

  Last year's game that combined most of the best aspects of online role-playing (without any monthly 
 fees attached) , action role-playing games, and competitive gaming in general is back in a similarly 
 huge and interestingly complex follow-up. While Guild Wars Factions is inherently similar to its 
 predecessor, and saddled with some of the same relatively minor shortcomings, it still delivers 
 a deep, addictive, and satisfying experience on many levels. The game is ultimately best suited 
 for social, competitive players (like fans of the original) , but it effectively weaves together 
 solo, cooperative, and competitive content in a way that's undeniably impressive.  

          Cantha's miles of dilapidated buildings stand in stark contrast to its majestic temples 
 and archways. And man, the women are totally hot.     

  The underlying action in Guild Wars Factions builds on the great formula of the original. You still 
 control a single character who grows to have access to dozens of unique skills (there are hundreds 
 in all) , though you can have only eight of them readied at a time -- a fairly large number that still 
 forces you to choose very carefully, like the process of building a good deck in a collectible 
 card game. No one character type is unstoppable, as the game is filled with numerous skills designed 
 to disrupt opponents, encouraging you to be an organized team player and also to experiment a lot. 
 If you start off as a role-playing character, you get to proceed through a large story-driven campaign 
 spanning dozens of hours and featuring a practically countless number of missions and side quests. 
 During the course of this campaign, you'll be introduced to many of the gameplay nuances and thrust 
 into some of the cooperative and competitive scenarios on offer. However, it's also possible to 
 go through a good amount of the story stuff with computer-controlled henchmen, though they're pretty 
 stupid and will only end up letting you down in the game's main missions -- not that there's a heavy 
 penalty for getting killed. You can't permanently die, though your maximum health and energy decreases 
 each time you die in a combat scenario. If your whole team is wiped out, it's time to magically 
 teleport back to town and consider a different course or strategy.  

  Guild Wars Factions is a stand-alone game, and it doesn't require you to own the original, though 
 the two games are very much interconnected regardless of whether you own one or both. Whereas the 
 first Guild Wars took place on and around the massive continent of Tyria, Factions introduces the 
 Asian-inspired continent of Cantha. Reminiscent of the setting of last year's Jade Empire, Cantha 
 mashes together various Chinese, Japanese, and other Asian influences into a beautiful but often 
 bleak setting that's a good counterpart to the predominantly Western-medieval Tyria. One of the 
 best parts is that all six of the original character classes from Guild Wars are back in Factions, 
 but the Canthan versions of these characters have distinctively Asian features and clothing. It 
 makes for a greater variety of player characters running around.  

  Factions also introduces two new character classes, the assassin and the ritualist. Assassins are 
 highly maneuverable and hit quickly and hard, while ritualists have various weird shamanistic spells 
 and may summon numerous different spirits to aid themselves and their allies. Guild Wars veterans 
 will naturally want to try these classes out, but by virtue of the game's meticulous intentions 
 to balance all possible character archetypes, you won't automatically prefer them to your existing 
 characters or the other available classes. You also can't start off in the original Prophecies 
 campaign as one of these new characters if you own the original Guild Wars, though you can work 
 your way up to where they can get to the lands of Tyria by ship -- and vice versa if you have existing 
 characters on Tyria.  

          Like in the first game, you can create a role-playing character and play through a lengthy 
 storyline with other people or create a PVP-only character and kill them.     

  Basically, Tyria and Cantha are divided by a sea that's as easy to cross as the click of a mouse 
 button, if your character has reached the port and you own the other game. Just like in the original, 
 one of the refreshing things about Guild Wars Factions is that you can basically teleport to any 
 major location you've previously visited in mere seconds. The enormity of the gameworld makes this 
 seem like a necessity, and yet it's possible to cross Cantha on foot, moving from one big region 
 to the next with only brief loading times in between (provided you don't have to download any new 
 content -- like in the original, you must be connected to the Internet at all times while playing) . 
 In between the two continents lie the Battle Isles, where most of the player-versus-player combat 
 takes place. As in the first Guild Wars, Factions lets you create a high-level PVP-only character 
 at any time, who'll be limited to engaging in competitive matches and won't get to experience the 
 storyline or see much of the world of the game. Still, the PVP combat is where some of the most 
 exciting action is.  

  The role-playing portion of Guild Wars Factions doesn't have the same epic feel as its predecessor, 
 especially in how it seems to quickly rush you all the way up to the game's maximum character level 
 of 20. The campaign's thinly veiled tutorials and training scenarios are clearly intended to help 
 prepare you for battle against other players, and the story itself -- involving a plague causing 
 Cantha's populace to turn into aberrations that look a lot like the Flood from Halo -- isn't particularly 
 well told. Apart from some story cutscenes delivered using not-particularly-convincing voice performances, 
 quests are given in little text windows that don't do a great job of drawing you into the plot. 
 And since you're not really earning much in the way of new stuff once you reach the maximum level, 
 the campaign might not hold your interest. However, it's worth pressing through in search of those 
 elite skills and crafted weapons and armor pieces that can give your character an advantage, and 
 some of the campaign missions are a lot of fun. Yet there's a lot more to the game than its campaign. 
     

  Like its predecessor, Guild Wars Factions offers competitive team-based combat in a variety of 
 modes and environments, but there's an even greater variety of options than before. Some of the 
 most interesting examples take place in the story and pit players on opposite sides working either 
 with or against each other depending on the context. It comes as a thrilling surprise the first 
 time it occurs to you that the mission you're in has a whole other player team in it besides yours, 
 and though these missions can be frustrating, they're executed well and are certainly novel. Those 
 who just want to dive right into some PVP combat can enter the random arenas, which automatically 
 assign you to a small team and let you battle a rival team until one team is wiped out. Larger 
 organized team battles can have various objectives, some of which are slightly more complex than 
 simply killing the other players.  

          Battles for control over territory are new to Guild Wars Factions and effectively pit alliances 
 of multiple guilds in a pitched conflict.     

  The "Factions" from the title also comes into play in the new alliance battles, waged between multiple 
 player guilds and pitting the Kurzick and the Luxon sects against each other. As one side or the 
 other wins successive battles, the borders between these warring factions shift back and forth, 
 granting one side or the other control over additional outposts and resources. The losing side 
 can never be completely eliminated, though, and as the borders push deeper into the losing side's 
 territory, it gains natural advantages in the maps where the fighting takes place. This tug-of-war 
 setup has what it takes to keep guilds busy for a while, even though there aren't a ton of alliance-battle 
 maps. Winners of alliance battles earn faction points, redeemable for special rewards. You also 
 gain this type of currency for killing other players and winning battles in standard PVP matches. 
 In addition to the purely competitive alliance battles, there are new cooperative-focused challenge 
 missions that are also tied to the factions systems, allowing alliance members to contribute to 
 the cause without having to viciously battle other players. These fast-paced missions are often 
 a race against the clock. It's good to have these alternative ways to contribute to your guild. 

  Player guilds of course are a key part of Guild Wars Factions, and in this respect the game clearly 
 caters to the hardcore. Nowhere is this more pronounced than in tournaments that pit the strongest, 
 most dedicated player guilds against each other. It's possible to observe tournament matches, which 
 can be entertaining and quite educational for those looking to improve their skills. As if having 
 access to all these action-packed scenarios weren't enough, as guilds grow stronger and more influential, 
 they may earn their own luxurious guild halls -- and now may invite allied guilds to come lounge. 

  It's worth noting that for as much as the game pushes you to get yourself into a guild, it still 
 doesn't do a particularly good job of letting you interact with other players. As a testament to 
 Guild Wars' worldwide success, outposts and towns tend to be teeming with players... but they're 
 also filled with "noise" in the form of a constant stream of text chat messages, mostly from players 
 hurriedly trying to form teams. The random PVP arenas automatically throw players together into 
 a team, but the story missions leave you to your own devices, which can be frustrating if you have 
 trouble finding good people to play with. Guild Wars Factions doesn't have as much content that 
 effectively caters to solo players as the original, so unless you've already got a willing group 
 of friends to play with, you'd best not hesitate to start looking for comrades early on.  

          You won't find a shortage of other players in Guild Wars Factions, that's for sure. The 
 deep gameplay and absence of monthly fees should keep them coming back.     

  Last year's Guild Wars stood out partly on account of its gorgeous visuals and slick game engine, 
 which let you boot up and quit out of the game in moments. The ability to get into and out of the 
 action so easily is still a great asset, and the visuals have held up nicely. Excellent character 
 graphics, imposingly huge monsters, and impressively rendered scenery are everywhere to be found, 
 though the action tends to noticeably slow down in larger battles, except on very fast systems. 
 Character animations are decent but unremarkable, though overall, Guild Wars Factions is a great-looking 
 game. Some good musical compositions make the fantasy world feel more vibrant, though not all the 
 music fits the Asian theme as well as the rousing title track for the game. Solid sound effects 
 round out the audio in a game whose presentation quality more than lives up to the ambition of 
 its underlying concepts.  

  Having both the original game and Factions installed adds still more layers of complexity, by letting 
 you experience the content from the respective continents in new ways, with characters who originated 
 on the other side. Like in the first game, just the sheer number of things to see and do in Guild 
 Wars Factions is quite amazing, and there are enough different styles of gameplay available that 
 you'll more than likely find aspects you really enjoy and get hooked on. In some ways this is an 
 imposing, complicated game, but since it doesn't punish you for experimenting (apart from the possibility 
 of a tongue-lashing from fellow players) , and since it doesn't saddle you with monthly fees, it's 
 really quite hard to resist.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (263 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: supermanmega
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 9, 2009 8:09 pm PT
Review:  if your dieing to play an mmorpg and you've played all the good f2p mmorpgs out there then you 
 can maybe think about getting this.... but if not its just not worth ur money.
  
  well the biggest flaw is the lvl cap.... lvl 20? are you joking? that took me less then 10 hours 
 to get. the graphics are good but makes it really laggy. the classes are pretty cool.... alot of 
 them are the same though. the game play is normal you run around do quests to lvl and thats about 
 it. kinda fun minigames but sucky pvp. you have to make a pvp character that starts at lvl 20... which 
 to me is kinda stupid. the community sucks. if you find some one that will talk to you... omg your 
 lucky. there also really cocky.... im not sure why though because 99% of the players are all lvl 
 20 and if your not then in 2-4 days you will be.
  
  over all its not really worth it. you can find a much better f2p mmorpg. one thing i think is funny 
 is when my friends are like "im gunno go work on my necromancer!" then the next day "hes lvl 20! 
 time for the warrior"..... one week later "i quit guildwars its boring" lol the most i've ever seen 
 some one play guildwars for was about a year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gormo4
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2009 11:40 am PT
Review:  Welcome to my review for guild wars factions, first things first, you don't need to own any other 
 guild wars games to play it and the factions box should come with an access key!
  To make sure buy a brand new copy, I've seen several people buy 'factions' of ebay and only recieve 
 the discs and case, you must have an access key.
  
  Once you put in the discs and install the client you should pick the option create a new account, 
 enter your email, your access key and make a password etc..
  From then on you use your email to log in and if you ever want to change your password you get 
 the client to email you a new password, this is simple and safe.
  
  So, what is guild wars? it's set in the middle ages, no guns or technology, just a world of steel 
 and magic.
  
  When you begin you have spaces for 3 characters, when you create the character you get a choice 
 of sex, proffesion and basic physical appearence.
  Basic proffessions include warrior, ranger, monk , mesmer, necromancer and elementalist.
  Unique 
 factions proffessions include the assassin and ritualist, bassically you can only create an assassin 
 and ritualist on the factions campaign.
  Each proffesions has there advantages and disadvantages in combat, warriors are slow, low energy 
 but they have a lot of armour and strong physical attacks.
  Un-like a monk which has strong healing powers and high energy but lacks strong armour and physical 
 attacks.
  There's also unique abilities like the ranger can have a pet, and necromancers can make undead 
 minions out of enemies corpses.
  
  Guild wars isn't as open as you might think for an mmorpg, you have cities where everybody can 
 visit but when you go outside the map becomes your own personal space, you can also bring other 
 players or henchmen outside with you.
  Depending on the area your in you can bring a certain amonut of others with you.
  Henchmen are 
 NPC's (they're robots bassically) but they can come in handy when there are no players who want 
 to team up.
  
  Factions takes you on a journey where you have to make some important choice, it also adds a new 
 brilliant feature of alliance battles, massive battles with up to 30 players on each side, they're 
 all about capturing bases and the first team to reach a certain amount of points wins.
  You then earn Kurzick or Luxon faction which can be spent on items or donated to your guild to 
 increase their reputation.
  
  
  So, where does guild wars factions take you? bassically a plauge has his the land of Cantha and 
 as a student of the monastery in Shing Jea you must help find the source and destroy it, firstly 
 you must finish your training on Shing jea island, a peaceful place with icy mountains and asian 
 style forests.
  
  Then you move to the mainland, an industrial city called Keaning which is huge, here you'll fight 
 through street gangs and afflicted- people transformed by the plauge
  
  Eventually you'll come to a choice where you have to choose your faction, Kurzick or Luxon.
  
 The Luxons live in a sea made of Jade and the Kurzicks live in a dark forest, this might effect 
 who you choose if you do get the game, altough either path you take works out just about the same.
 
  
  Titles are also a big deal in guild wars, when you reach a certain acheivment you can add a title 
 underneath your name, for example after you've mastered all missions in factions you unlock the 
 title 'protector of cantha' and then if you master them all on hard mode you unlock 'guardian of 
 cantha' this keeps you going and I espeically was quite motivated by achieving these titles.
  
  As you come into the world you get given a primary quest, this will lead you to the end of 
 the game and as you do you'll unlock new locations, grow stronger and richer.
  There are also hundreds of side quests which can help you when you need to level up or are short 
 on cash.
  There are complaints and how the level cap is only 20, but I think this is good as when you finish 
 the game you can then use the characters for PvP action which is guild wars main strength.
  Sometimes you'll have primary missions instead, these offer bigger rewards and are more complex 
 than quests.
  
  Each time you level up you earn points to spend on your attributes, each proffesion has 4 attributes, 
 for example, the monk has smiting, healing, protection and divine favour, you can re-allocate these 
 points whenever you want which makes combat very free flowing and it has lots of possobilities.
 
  
  Each proffesions has up to 100 skills alone in factions and many more if you purchase the other 
 games, skills can be unlocked by buying them for gold, or on a PvP character trading in faction 
 for them.
  You can also have a secondary proffession, altough you won't be able to use their 'main ability' 
 you can still take advantage, for example you can have a warrior/assassin but you won't be able 
 to take advantage of the 'critical strikes' attribute which increases the rate of criticals you 
 hit, but you WILL be able to take advantage of the 'dagger mastery' attribute increasing your damage 
 with daggers.
  
  Altough you can only have 8 skills on your skill bar at a time you can switch them in and out when 
 ever your in an outpost or town, you CAN'T switch skills outside in the wilderness which I think 
 is very reasonable because it allws you to experiment.
  
  You also customise your armour and weapons, these are bought using money and materials the craftsman 
 NPC needs to make the armour/weapons.
  Armour does not drop from monsters and it aways customised to a player so it only fits them, there 
 isn't a broad choice of armours, there are about 12 set choices in factions, these include head 
 armour, chest, legs, gloves and boots.
  You can also add insignias and dyes to your armour making them more powerful and decorative.
 
  The higher armour rating your armour has the more expensive it is.
  
  The main way to earn oney is from quests and missions but some people turn to hard core farming, 
 killing monsters for hours on end using special builds.
  
  Once you complete the game ocne you unlock 'hard mode' this makes enemies a lot tougher and loot 
 a lot more shiny if you know what I mean ;)
  This is when guild wars players get competetive, often players solo extremely hard enemies using 
 a specefic build of 8 skills, this takes a lot of skill but is a quick way of making money.
  
  If you can't be asked to go through half of a campaign to reach level 20 to be able to compete 
 in PvP you can make a PvP character which automatically becomes level 20 with the ability to make 
 custom max armour + weapons and use skills unlocked with faction earnt in PvP activies like random 
 arenas.
  Random arenas bassically is a random selection of 4 players who fight eachother- the last team 
 standing wins and goes to the next fight, you also earn faction.
  
  Graphics are stunning, altough not at all times they're smooth, for example some wall textures 
 are a bit dodgy and layering in some locations.
  You can have the options to edit the graphical options dependng on how powerful your pc is, you 
 can also do this with the sound.
  Cut scenes are also done well, if your with other players you can have the option to 'vote to skip' 
 the cutscene, if all players vote to skip then it is skipped.
  
  There isn't as much to say abuot sound, music is very typical 'swords and sheilds' fantasy styled.
 
  Sounds effects can also get on your nerve if your using a certain skill over and over again.
 
  Voice overs in cut scenes are brilliant though, no complaints at all from me.
  
  One of the main features of guild wars is obviously you can make guilds, altough it's an expensive 
 process it's worth it, you can customise your own guild cape, buy your own hall and even make alliances 
 with up to 9 other guilds.
  Guilds can also fight each other in freindly or ranked matches.
  
  I reccomend guild wars factions 
 for those who are seeking a high quality mmorpg without monthly subscriptions.
  The main story with one character can be completed in 20-30 hours and PvP and GvG can also add 
 another 40+ hours into the experience not forgetting the hundreds of side quests and exploring 
 there is to do, I think after you've done a lot of side quests they get boring though.
  Quests include kill or fetch bassically, they could improve this in future, missions are normally 
 a lot more complex though making the main story quite enjoyable.
  
  Thanks for reading, I hope this review helped! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flaretempest
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 9:58 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars Factions is a stand-alone expansion to the original Guild Wars, which is not required 
 to play Factions, but would give you access to a lot more content. The game is a MMORPG, but it's 
 different from others, like World of Warcraft. Unlike WoW, there is no subscription fee, you only 
 have to buy the game and have a good interent connection to play. Also unlike WoW, there are "instances"- 
 when a player and his/her party leave a town or outpost, they get their own private copy of the 
 game world, so there is no more spawn camping. Also, I personally think the graphics are better 
 than WoW, but if you like WoW's cartoonish look, it's fine with me. Players have eight character 
 classes to choose from when making a character, but you can also get a secondary class, letting 
 you make lots of character combinations. Combat is simply clicking on an enemy and using skills, 
 and movement is WASD or clicking the mouse. 
  
  Now, here are the game's problems: music, the map, and the storyline. The game has great music, 
 but it is hard to hear because of sound effects and environmental noise, but this is not a major 
 problem. The game's map is, however. The map shows a gigantic continent to explore. Sadly, you 
 can only explore about half of the map, which is a huge disappointment. The game's biggest problem, 
 though, is story. The voice acting is terrible, the cutscenes are poorly done, and there are a 
 lot of gaps in the plot.
  
  If you can get past this game's issues like I did, and are looking for a cheap yet satisfying MMORPG, 
 then by all means try Guild Wars Factions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HobosNeedCable
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  For a role playing game Factions is very well done. IT has all the features that are of regular 
 role-playing games: good story Nice charaters - lots of creatures -leveling. The game is very much 
 like world of warcraft except better grahics in my opion. The graphics are actually graphics and 
 not drawings. The build system makes the game organized and is a quick easy way of fighting. The 
 game also seems to depend on magic more then other games. U custimize your own charater and getting 
 the right itms is very fun. Bottom line this is a nice game to have but not a long as the others, 
 but possibly the best one to start at. Iloved talking to people and getting their help that is 
 a great atribute but i would like it if trading was more involing and important. blah blah bah 
 filling in space for those gamestop people who want me to write alot but i'm too lazy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sithisil
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars: Factions, unlike its predecessor, is focused more on an oriental theme. It is very 
 similar to Prophesies in how it plays out, and you may use your old characters and new characters 
 in both campaigns, old and new.
  
  The Good:
  The two new classes, the Assassin and Ritualist, are two great additions to the game. Not only 
 do they get their own large set of skills, but the old classes also get a whole plethora of new 
 skills to work with as well. New challenges await in Factions, providing a fresh new playing experience. 
 New characters can be seen as well, and the addition of these two new classes improves your ability 
 to use new classes and builds overall, with both campaigns. The storyline was also an improvement 
 from the first campaign, in my opinion.
  
  The Bad:
  The missions in this game just aren't as fun to complete, and didn't feel nearly as epic as the 
 ones in Prophesies. Also, I didn't feel that the Assassin had many good skill combos until you 
 get much later in the game. There wasn't a whole lot added to the gameplay itself for people going 
 in with Prophesies characters, either, which was perhaps the most disappointing.
  
  Sorry, though, folks; I don't have Nightfall! The next review will be Eye of the North, but don't 
 expect that one for a while; I haven't beaten it yet! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MyKillz
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  Guildwars whas a big succes when the first part came out.
  Before Guildwars came out there whas a total rage of world of warcraft (wow) .
  But when Guildwars 
 came out it changed.
  Because Guildwars is a free mmorpg to play and wow isnt
  much people bought guildwars , im one of them.
  I dont say wow is weaker than guildwars because 
 more people play wow.
  But when im talking about the graphics i think everyone agrees if i say guildwars 10 and wow 7.
 
  Guildwars is so much beautifull and a endless play.
  Wow is endless to but guildwars has something special.
  Especially the fact that it loads much 
 and much faster.
  You dont have to walk 1 hour to get from north to south.
  You just click a place on the map and travel.
  I did all the primary quests now and explored 
 all the towns.
  I have it a 80% done.
  Thats the good thing to.
  You can wear titles.
  There are so many titles.
  And you can earn a extra title if you have all the titles the highest.
 
  This game in one letter: GREAT!
  All the guildwars fans all the mmorpg fans.
  BUY THIS.
  for 30$ youre done forever, i give this game a 10.
  ill hope to see you ingame
  greatings.
 
  Dark Ownager 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGhettoDT
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2008 4:13 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - In Guild Wars you have a total of 20 lvls.
  Each time you gain a level you gain attribute points where you can spend them on an attribute each 
 unique for the class you've chosen in which each attribute will increase a certain spell / ability 
 types damage and efficiency.
  The combat is a one of them games where you click an enemy and you watch your character swing.
 
  You have a very big range of spells and abilities to choose from.
  You have many classes each with their own spells and abilities
  When you start a character you 
 start in an "Explorable Area" in which the game removes all the player characters from them and 
 you can play your by yourself though if you want to play with some friends you can invite them 
 to your party and you will be able to play the explorable areas with your friends.
  Sometimes things get a bit confusing cause all the enemies look the same and all the NPC characters 
 casts spells in which they all look like the same thing but is different and even in a close up 
 zoom everything still looks kinda the same.
  Getting different armor and weapons seem to be a bigger challenge then just getting some money 
 and pay the merchant straight, no, on this game you have to gain crafting materials as well as 
 money in order for the merchant to make the weapon/armor for you.
  When you are in a city you are able to see all of the players in which that's your chance to invite 
 them to your party so you can play the Explorable Areas together. Also in the city you are able 
 to invite NPC henchmen into your party which when you go out into an explorable area they will 
 help you with combat.
  This game isn't as addictive as WoW but that doesn't make it a great game
  
  Graphics - The 
 graphics are beautifully designed
  The character models look realistic although most of the models that you create all look asian 
 when your looking at the games videos and cover art and other pictures you have a few white people 
 but when creating a character all the models look asian though that don't matter cause when you 
 start playing your gonna be more focused on the combat and trying to figure out where to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aura_enchanted
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  Okay this is my 2nd review (actually I've done 3, but i wont discuss that little mishap) . Welcome 
 to the island of Cantha home of ninjas, grumpy old guys, an evil Asian swordsman, and of course 
 the ghetto.
  Guild Wars: factions is the second in the series and bring to the table a whole new continent to 
 explore, the sad part about it is that the game is terribly linear in that you cannot freely explore 
 it all without running into doors and gates that refuse to open till your done more of the story. 
 the game divides itself into four main regions: the island of Shing Jea where characters start, 
 Keaning city a vastly crowded ghetto crawling with gangs, plagues, and people, finally u have the 
 luxon territories which are vast areas of never ending jade water, and the wooded kurzick side 
 which has become one with nature.
  when you begin this campaign with a new character u can choose one of two new professions (the 
 assassin and the ritualist) . each of them has there own unique methods of attack and defense. the 
 ritualist is primarily a support character buffing and healing as he goes. while the assassin acts 
 in a off-tank role supplying much needed assistance to overworked warriors. but lack the armor 
 or damage to fully replace the warriors (and dervishes if u have nightfall) .
  this title is relatively short in comparison to prophecies, nightfall, or eye of the north. but 
 makes up for it with a quicker pace of leveling than prophecies or nightfall.
  it adds to an existing account many new skills for every profession (excluding dervishes and paragons 
 because nightfall was released after factions) .
  the story is fairly simple you the hero are chosen by master Togo (your teacher) to help him defeat 
 shiro tagachi an evil swordsman who once killed the emperor in cantha and has now come back from 
 the dead to do so again. as you go along u encounter strange and bizaar sights and the enemies 
 slowly grow more and more mutated. in the end shiro is defeated at the loss of master togo, and 
 is locked away forever in the underworld. But, as i have said above u cannot complete the story 
 in pieces here and there you have to go through it in order.
  after you have completed the campaign u gain access to one of two large scale dungeon equivalent 
 to a raid in more popular games like World of Warcraft, or Warhammer online. they allow for a 16 
 person team and can take two or more hours to complete. they are accessible via the kurzick and 
 luxon capital
  From a pvp point of view this game brings a 2 new methods of taking down opponents. first of all 
 you have the alliance battles. these are a large scale conquest pvp area consisting of five, 4 
 man teams. when u win u obtain faction exchangeable for skills, weapon upgrades, and materials 
 for armor.
  second of all you have access to another alliance based fight called a competitive mission. this 
 is a game in which a team must gather a resource while defending their base. and the other must 
 deny the other team that resource while laying siege to their defenses. The defending side wins 
 if they gather enough of the resource before their base is taken over. The other team wins if they 
 take over the other teams base before they gather enough of the resource.
  finally i will discuss community. this campaign allows multiple guilds (or "clans" for you other 
 folk) . can ban together to make an alliance which has free chat between all alliance guild members 
 and the ability to gain from their successes. If your alliance fight enough alliance battles you 
 can own a kurzick or luxon town and receive exclusive access to locked parts of the town that offer 
 discount price merchants and other fun stuff like that.
  In the end this campaign brings many new features to the table but is kept from greatness by barriers 
 to limit exploration and a campaign of about 13 instanced quests which range from very easy to 
 very difficult. An experience online rpg player could probably finish the storyline in about a 
 month of consistent play.
  (p. s. i don't care about rants and hate over spelling and grammar, its a review in my opinion not 
 a book about it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joknerd12
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  This is a great MMORPG and there is no monthly fee. The difficulty is perfect you spend 1000s of 
 hours playing and its just a great add on to the original Guild wars! if you havnt played guild 
 wars you should start it is very addicting and grows on you Fast! i probably spend 4 hours on it 
 every day.                                                                                     
                                                                                                
                                             Cant wait for guild wars 2!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skreetpreacha
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 22, 2008 5:20 am PT
Review:  The Good: Same great presentation and gameplay as the first. Forces you into light PvP gameplay 
 in some parts. 2 new classes are great and well-balanced. 
  
  The Bad: Story is a bit lackluster. Story missions are a bit shorter than the first game. 
  
 
  Review: Since it's summer time, I decided to catch up on my old favorite PC series, Guild Wars. 
 I'm trying to play the campaigns in order. I've been done with Prophecis for awhile now and just 
 picked up Factions. (I actually also picked up EoTN too, since it was on sale for 15 bucks at Gamestop. 
 Looks like I'll have to come back to Nightfall eventually one day.) And boy, was it exciting at 
 first to start something new. Overall, the gameplay here is exactly like the first. It's heavily 
 based on fast combat and requires alot of strategy being able to take only 8 skills in the field 
 with you. This game features the same great graphics, environmental detail, and epic music also 
 as the first. 
  
  However, there are a few flaws which are also mentioned in the GS review. Upon starting a character 
 here, you are LOADED with quests which give you TONS of experience. Which means you can level up 
 to the level 20 cap quicker here than in any other campaign. In fact, before even completing the 
 3rd mission, you can hit the 20 cap, based on doing 3-4k exp quests. With the story not quite as 
 compelling as the first, as the GS review said, this can make doing the rest of the story missions 
 feel more like a chore, than actual fun, since you're already leveled up. 
  
  The 2 new character classes introduced in this game are also very good, the Ritualist and Assassin. 
 The Ritualist to me, is like a Monk and Elementalist combined. It's a caster class that actually 
 has 3 new types of skills. A weapon skill, a item skill, and a ritual, which is where you create 
 spirits. Those spirits can be offensive or defensive, and overall, the skills for the Ritualist 
 are balanced between offensive and defensive. Their defensive buffs and heals are as powerful, 
 if not moreso than a monk, and their offensive spells compare with those of the firepower of an 
 elementalist. 
  
  I haven't got a chance to play as the Assassin so far, but just in fighting against them, they 
 too, seem very powerful. I've heard they rely on chaining skills together to get the most out of 
 them. And I myself have suffered some quick, HEAVY damage when fighting them. They are a melee 
 class that uses daggers as weapons, which are a bit weaker than the weapons of a Warrior, but strike 
 faster, and have higher chance for critical strikes and multiple strikes. 
  
  The other thing that makes this game different, is that it forces you to engage in at least some 
 Player vs. Player combat (PvP) . This is when you will pick a "faction" between the Kurzicks or 
 Luxons. You have to earn faction points to pick a side, and the only way to do so is by doing some 
 PvP in either some of the PvP missions in the game or Alliance Battles (AB) . Both types of PvP 
 are new modes to this campaign only. And they are both incredibly fun and since they are based 
 on big teams, neither of them seem overwhelming. I believe the mission ones are 8 vs 8 and ABs 
 are 16 vs 16. Since I'd pretty much ignored the PvP modes in the original game, this was my first 
 taste of PvP and I fell in love! :-) I haven't become a hardcore PvPer or anything yet, but it 
 definitely got my feet wet and got me more interested in the other PvP modes Guild Wars has to 
 offer. 
  
  As for elite missions for the hardcore, there are 2 areas exclusive to this game, neither of which 
 I have even tried. Mainly because I haven't heard about anyone in my guild going there, probably 
 because there are 2 other newer campaigns in the Guild Wars series than this one, and those are 
 the games mostly everyone is currently playing. And because I've heard these elite missions take 
 a good 3-4 hours to complete in one run. Which is more time than I have to sit at my PC, lol. That 
 seems a little ridiculous to me, but even Guild Wiki says it takes AT LEAST 2-3 hours for a fast, 
 veteran group to complete the elite mission. So, I'm sure I'll try it one day, but not for now. 
 
  
  Anyhoo, overall, from what I've heard, this is probably the "least best" game in the series, but 
 it's still a great addition overall, and even a good starting point for newbies to the series. 
 Especially since you level up so fast at the beginning. It's also the ONLY game in the series where 
 you can earn Kurzick or Luxon faction and has the Competitive and Alliance Battle PvP modes, both 
 of which are great fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLouisXVIII
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2008 11:43 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars: Factions isn't your usual online game. For a start, it's free. One payment and it's 
 yours for life. This is a good enough reason to pick it up, but its far from the only reason.
 
  
  As soon as you enter this world you are blown away by the sheer size and scope of it. Very nice 
 graphics and easy controls make it a simple matter to move through the crowds of other players 
 and reach the main game area.
  
  You can easily spend your first few days of play out here, killing monsters, picking up loot, or 
 just wandering around exploring this vast, far-eastern style world, with it's very own cultures, 
 history and story. Also, this part is all yours, no-one else can enter unless invited, so kill 
 stealing, overcrowding and annoying tagalongs are a thing of the past.
  
  The storyline is also excellent, the in-built history and back-stories really pull you into this 
 game. The main questline is fairly long, and will drag you through a series of varied environments, 
 including bustling cities, vast forests and crumbling ruins.
  
  The game is online, but can be comfortably played through almost totally alone, although a party 
 of players is often necessary on the harder missions. 
  
  The actual PvP is also brilliant, you have the option to build a character purely for PvP, which 
 will have more skills and abilities available. The PvP kept me gripped for months, and you really 
 do rely on your party to get you through  if you die and the team lose, you feel bad, and if your 
 team pulls through victorious, it's great  and the overall online is very good.
  
  So, if you are new to online gaming and want to learn the basics, why not try Guild Wars  if you 
 don't like the PvP side of things, there's still a huge game to explore, just not as fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: reduserisk
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  While I'm glad that Factions came out and "expanded" the Guild Wars universe a bit, I found myself 
 feeling empty handed while playing the game.
  
  GOOD: The good things about Factions are pretty much the same things that can be found in the original 
 Guild Wars campaign; Prophecies. The graphics are pleasing, the game play and controls are solid 
 and not too demanding, and the pvp is fun. The new architecture and Asian feel that permeates the 
 world including the armor and weapons is a nice change from the original. There is the introduction 
 of the faction element as well, hence the name of the game. Its your standard ally with one side 
 and fight the other type of deal, which expands the pvp element of the game. The other addition 
 is the heroes options. Basically instead of having a standard bot/npc to accompany you during pve 
 content you can create "heroes" which are basically bots that you have basic movement control over 
 along with the ability to mix up the skills they are using. I would say this was the change I was 
 most pleased about. Also, in true GW fashion the game is hardly a time sink and sets you up for 
 little to no grinding at all. 
  
  BAD: The game lacks the immersion and depth that I'm looking for, just as Prophecies did. The game 
 play is still highly linear, the level cap is the same, the armor is the same stuff just different 
 styles, and the pve is seriously lacking in depth. Also, just as in Prophecies, lots of instancing 
 kept me feeling left out, especially since I'm only a casual pvp'er. This game feels like Prophecies 
 all over again, with an Asian theme and only two real changes: heroes and the two factions.
  
  Overall, Factions is definitely not a bad game, but definitely not great either. If you were 
 really into Prophecies like I was (despite being plagued by the same issues) , then go ahead and 
 grab Factions, just don't expect to enjoy it any more that you did the first one. In fact you might 
 find yourself enjoying it considerably less. I know I did. On that note, anyone who knows the GW 
 franchise knows its all about pvp. So if your looking for what I would essentially call a pvp expansion 
 pack to the prophecies campaign then you've found your game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaSoul
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 29, 2008 4:29 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars: Factions is the second chapter in the guild wars series. The best part about it is, that 
 you can just jump into it without having to buy the original. The gameplay is really cool and great, and 
 the story is very great as well. In addition to the basic campaign mode there are PvP Elemets there 
 as well! There are many types of PvP. One is the one-on-one Zaishen Challenge. The Second is gladiator 
 arena. Then There are random battles and the greatest Alliance Battles! The Graphics are state of 
 the art even now, in my opinion WoW has got nothing against this game. Another great thing about 
 this is, that its completely free! No monthly fees like WoW! When you take the better graphics, better (and 
 smoother) gameplay and the great story and no mothly fees. In summary its better than WoW! Three 
 hurrahs for Guild Wars! So i rate it a ten... WoW has nothing on this game. An Absolute Must-Buy! Tho 
 now the bad things. The Maximum level is only (!) 20. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chao_Of_Blades
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  (Just a quick note) , if you want to start Guild Wars I strongly reccomend getting factions first. 
 The major differences between Factions and other Guild Wars games would probably be the difficulty 
 and the rate at which you gain levels. You can get to level 20 (the Max level) by only playing 
 4 hours each day for 3 days which compared to the previous game "Prophecies" is a big change. This 
 is also the very short on missions compared to Prophecies and Nightfall, and the story is quite 
 shallow and isn't as deep as the the other two games. All in all I reccomend this game for the 
 easy level ups because you can just get your character to level 20 very quick then get to a certain 
 point and play a different campaign.
  
  The add on of the Assassin and the Ritualist are awesome too, the Assassin is easily one of the 
 most powerful class in the game, its basically a berserker that has a large array of escape and 
 blocking techniques to help itself stay alive long enough to execute a full combo usually killing 
 the target in one fell swoop. The Ritualist has many qualities it can be a nuker, dealing heavy 
 AOE damage with only 3 spells, or it can just spam spirit summoning spells to overwhelm and confuse 
 the opponents. All in all i recommend getting this game if your really into Guild Wars or just 
 want the right starting Guild Wars game, this is the campaign for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feibie
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 23, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  ok basically for anyone that loves just pvping all day in an MMO guildwars is for you.
  
  if you like RPG guildwars is also for you because although it's an MMO you don't have to play with 
 other players cause well... you've got these bots/ais that are called henchmen and they can help 
 you through the game.
  
  i like this game but when the other campaigns came out it sorta failed... 
  the new campaigns 
 just felt the same even though they had new stuff i dunnoes, i just think they can't compare to 
 the original - prophecies
  
  like nightfall introduced heroes - they're like henchment but you can customize their skills, attributes, 
 equipment and have better control of them but you could only have 3 at a time which was... a bit 
 lame...
  
  factions had kurzick and luxon alliance battles and new arenas but tbh... that's all it really 
 was, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princeofshapeir
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  Having been a hardcore fan of the original Prophecies, I did myself a favor and decided to buy 
 Guild Wars: Factions. I mean, after all, it did have two additional classes, the Ritualist and 
 Assassin, as well as better armor and other worthwhile upgrades to the Guild Wars name. How could 
 the original Guild Wars formula be tarnished in the next campaign?
  
  The answer came quickly. Once I created a new character, an Assassin, I was astonished by how quickly 
 I leveled up. It seems that Factions does its best to attempt to make you as suped-up as possible. 
 Once I had done less than two missions, the long quests that advance the storyline, I found that 
 I was already at level 17 and was expected to kill level 20-24 enemies. The pacing in Factions 
 was ridiculously broken. It seems that ArenaNet tries its best to level you up as soon as possible 
 for some odd reason. The PvE/Roleplaying structure in Factions is overly frustrating and complex, 
 as well. Whereas in the original Prophecies where the enemies were not terribly difficult to beat, 
 I found that many of the enemies in Factions were incredibly difficult. Maybe it was me playing 
 as an Assassin, but I'm sure I died dozens of times before I got close to the next explorable area/outpost. 
 The worst part about this fast leveling is that many people will take their new characters over 
 to the Factions campaign via cross-campaign switching, and just finish quests which give you a 
 ridiculous amount of XP for doing almost nothing. It seems as if Factions is used more as a fast 
 level-up scheme than a real game.
  
  However, the game has some amazing new features in it, particularly Guild Wars' strong point; PvP 
 gameplay. Factions adds a new PvP arena called "Alliance Battles", where you join one of two factions: 
 The Kurzicks or Luxons. The two factions are at war with one another, and you can engage in fierce 
 battles over territory, the winning side getting an outpost that the two are warring over. Both 
 sides have unique armor you can get for your character depending on how much faction you have gained 
 for the respective faction you are allied with. Alliance Battles are fun and furious, where killing 
 as many people as you can will not always guarantee you victory.
  
  The graphics, are of course, stellar. Guild Wars has always been one of the better-looking Online 
 RPGs that doesn't require a fast computer. Factions, with its unique Asian-inspired continent called 
 Cantha, pushes the boundaries to create posh urban cities and luscious forests. The game's sounds 
 and graphics are top-notch and superb.
  
  As with all Guild Wars campaigns, the gameplay is free and requires no monthly fee. At $40, Factions 
 is a great addition to the Guild Wars series, if probably the worst of the three. I recommend a 
 new player to buy Nightfall first, then advance to the others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thorn994
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars Factions is overall a pretty darn good game. Factions' theme is ancient chinese/japanese 
 and with good graphics, nice music, and no subsription, this game is worth looking at. The problem 
 is, the storyline is not as engrossing as Guild Wars Prophecies or Nightfall. Basically, an old 
 master assasin comes back from the dead and is emitting a disease thats turning animals and people 
 into mutant pink zombies that carry an assortment of weapons. The campaign overall is average but 
 gets kind of boring. The introduction of Kurzick and Luxon are interesting, but that doesn't really 
 make up for the rest of the campaign. The pvp however, is awesome. If you join a guild, and if 
 your guild leader has factions, your guild can enter an alliance with other guilds and you can 
 join in on awesome alliance battles. When you win a battle, you get faction which you can cash 
 in for some pretty cool items or use the faction to raise your alliance's faction. Overall Factions 
 is pretty good, but not as good as Prophecies or Nightfall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Locked-On
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 4, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  As my first and only Guild Wars game, I have to say that this game is surprising good for a MMORPG. 
 It combines excellent graphics, a nice and not too hard story and one of the best PvP games out 
 there, in my opinion.
  
  I've never played any other Guild Wars game, so unfortunately, I cannot compare this to any of 
 the others. However, this game is very good for an online game and I think it's one of the best 
 I've played so far. The story can go pretty deep at times and can draw you in and keep you playing. 
 You join in friendly and sometimes humorous guilds that can cheer you up. Other times, you join 
 in unfriendly, scamming guilds that simply want you to pay money and give reputation. It all matters 
 about how friendly you are as well, since no one wants a snobby, mean guy in their guild that always 
 demands what they want and threatens to kick people out of the guild.
  
  The PvP is amazing. You can join in parties and brawl in a 12 versus 12 Alliance Battle where the 
 two alliances, the Kurzicks and the Luxons, fight for territory. You could become respected across 
 the whole Guild Wars community or become the champion of the Heroes Ascent matches, the place where 
 only the most skilled people duel for the big prize. You could also join in for a Fort Aspenwood 
 match where the Kurzicks struggle to defend their leader and the Luxons try to break through their 
 defenses and kill the Kurzick leader. The matches can be very competitive and you'll see people 
 working hard to win.
  
  You only have to pay when you buy the CD, no monthly fees such as WoW or some other games where 
 you have to pay once in a while. All you need is the Cd and a decent internet connection and tada, 
 you can enter the enjoyable and competitive world of Guild Wars.
  
  To fully enjoy the game, you may need to buy all of the versions to unlock every single skill and 
 dominate the Guild Wars community. Overall, this game offers many fun things and can be one of 
 the best online games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HicktownMayor
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 11, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  The 2nd game in the Guild Wars franchise offers more of the same and a little bit of new. There 
 are two new classes (assassin & ritualist) along with new weapons, armor, and spells for all the 
 other paths. The Chinese or Asian influence can be a welcomed addition or an unwanted feature. 
 All the characters have an Asian look which makes me personally turned away. I defiantly would 
 have bought Nightfall instead of Factions had I known this. A couple new additions in gameplay 
 include competitive missions and alliance battles. Competitiive missions are just like normal missions 
 except they are timed. Alliance battles can be joined by any group of Luxon or Kurzich. (These 
 features are also included in Nightfall) .
  
  My final suggestion:
  Unless you just want this game, buy Guild Wars Nightfall. (I own Guild Wars and Factions) . However, 
 this game is free once you buy it so it's not all that bad. If you like any of the other Guild 
 Wars you will like this game but it's probably the worst in the series to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0520426177
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 4:14 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars factions PvE gameplay is not near as good as the PvE is in Prophecies or NIghtfall, 
 Even though it might be a harder game, since nightfall takes around 1 day to complete the campaing, 
 and prophecies ain't got any hard missions. The PvE gameply on factions side suffers from the lack 
 of story, the enviormentes in around 60% of the game is not very nice at all. The classes in guildwars 
 factions are not very easy to handle for new players, wich makes assasins and ritualists less accesible. 
 If you are thinking about starting Guild wars i'd say buy nightfall firt, then get the 3 other 
 games. altough i think factions is the worst game of them all, i don't know why but all my titles 
 for my warrior are canthan based... i have protector, grand master cartographer etc, Anyways the 
 pvp side is a good improvment, it adds Alliance battle (luxon vs kurz) wich is fun but, u don't 
 basicly need a good build at all in AB, but sine i'm barly ever playing PVP, since i'm armor fixated 
 and i just want money, titles etc all i basicly do is... being in PvE and farming i guess. The 
 story line in factions is not too bad , but the coperative missions are just boring and too easy.
 
  
  // Lord Zarebeck time spend in Guild Wars: 2 200 hours+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bradistheman711
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Even though it was delayed TWICE it was worth it. Factions I fell is a bit short, but it added 
 MASSIVE amounts to the PvP side. Which clearly makes up for it. The 2 new professions where made 
 for PvP and that shows. 
  
  
  The graphics blow me away! It looks much better then the first time! I also like the theme to Factions. 
 Plus with the new Faction (luxon/kurzick) the fun goes on. Alliance battles are great, just make 
 sure you get fellow guildies or get wiped off the floor.
  
  
  The Ritualist and Assassin are very versatile. Where the sin focuses on damage from chain lines. 
 The Rit focuses on healing and producing spirits to help allies like the ranger does.
  
  I fully enjoy this game. Just one complaint..... NEEDS BETTER NPC MOVEMENT!
  
  Happy Gaming! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sanvett
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  I have all four games of Guild Wars series. I bought Factions in may 2006. I have scored the first 
 series of Guild Wars at 9 and the third Nightfall at 8.5 indeed. But I was disappointed at Guild 
 Wars: Factions. It's a sad thing Factions is much worse.
  
  The storyline is not good. And missions are fewer than the first series. Music is just fair. There 
 are two new classes, but I don't like them, LOL. Somehow I just don't like all of Factions, especially 
 the environment and style. I think the third series "Nightfall" is much better than Factions. If 
 you are a fan of Guild Wars, you can buy Factions indeed. Though I have bought all series, I am not 
 a fan of Guild wars. I am just a seeker searching for and playing all good games. Unluckily, I lost 
 50 bucks on Factions then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars Factions offers a new continent to play on. In this game there is an Asian theme to 
 it, so the environments look a lot different.
  
  You get to pick from 8 classes now, the assassin and ritualist. All the other classes return with 
 new looks and different items.
  
  The game play is still the same. You go around doing quests and getting new stuff. thou the one 
 thing about quests are that you get a lot of experience doing most of the quests so you level up 
 really fast. After you reached the maximum level, you really do not feel like playing through the 
 rest of the game.
  
  The graphics still look really good and are updated a bit.
  
  The sound is pretty good.
  
  There is an improved PvP in this game that offers more options 
 to choose from.
  
  The game still has no monthly fee and it will run on a very slow Internet connection, so if you 
 are looking for another great mmorpg then you should play Guild Wars Factions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agentdan868
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 3, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars Factions continues the story of the original Prophecies campaign. Once again this game 
 is a online RPG which tests your intelligence to put 8 skills together to fight either against 
 other players or the single-player based quests. Factions has many great aspects, the graphics 
 are still top notch with great textures and lightning effects. In this release two new professions 
 where made, the Assassin and the Ritualist. Both new professions offer great expandability to create 
 the most awesome build.
  
  Factions was released as a more of PvP (Player vs. Player) addition, because most of the new skills 
 were made for PvP. The new PvP which Factions introduces is the Alliance Battle. Where gamers choose 
 between two clans, the Kurzicks and Luxons. Then guilds join together to form an alliance where 
 each alliance joins in a battle to increase the territory for there clans. And these battles are 
 on going to decide who controls where on the map. On a side note the quests and missions are quite 
 difficult and sometimes feel impossible. But thats what you get when Factions was rushed to be 
 released.
  
  With the addition of greats skills, new Player vs. Player action, new professions, and great visuals 
 I would recommend this to anyone who enjoys a good RPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: templargunman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars Factions was a good expansion to a great game. I got some good gameplay out of it, I 
 never finished the campaign, mostly because the beginning was boring and annoying, only the part 
 where your in the amber forests or the jade sea interested me. Once I got there, I eventually got 
 stuck at the Unwaking waters, where it required both sides to get a full team of skilled players, 
 instead, it was my team full of skilled balanced players and an idiot who had grabbed full henchmen 
 or whoever pmed him first and crossed his fingers. Leading to us never actually winning. So, eventually, 
 I got bored and stopped playing, but it definitely took me a while to do so. I say it's better 
 than a lot of games, but compared to the original, it just doesn't match up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saranis
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  One thing that can be said about the Guild Wars Universe is that it offers a lot of variety in 
 Quests and Missions. That doesn't change in Factions either. Instead it will offer two different 
 paths to the same ending. In Factions you will be forced to choose a side in the War between Luxons 
 and Kurzicks. While this would be fine if it was really your choice, the choice truelly lies in 
 the hands of your Guildmaster as he chooses what side your clan is alligned with and in doing so 
 chooses the side you will fight on in Alliance Battles. If you have more Faction points with one 
 side, the opposing sides NPCs will not talk to you. This is extremly frustrating if you need to 
 explore a zone and would like to take Keys with you. Enviroments take you from a Hilly Island to 
 a poor run down City, there you decide which nation you will fight for in the war. Depending which 
 side you choose you will either go to a Frozen Sea or a Dead Forest. In the end though whatever 
 you choose you end up in the Imperial Palace. The two new classes offer a refreshingly new experience 
 in both the new and old campaigns. While the Ritualist is a sort of Combo-Character of Necromancer 
 and Monk, the Assassin is something all together new. The Assassin uses Daggers to quickly 'Spike' 
 characters with high ammounts of Damage and Conditions. With their ability to shadow step (teleport) 
 to their targets this offers a deadly threat to unknowing squishy targets. The Ritualist is much 
 like the Necromancer in its ability to summon extra help in the time of need, and like the monk 
 in its ability to heal other part members. Its truely unique (at the time of release, see Nightfall 
 for more informtation) aspect comes from its ability to buff team mates with weapon spells which 
 can do most everything from steal health when the player is hit or add extra damage and conditions 
 to their regular attacks. It also offers a second class to the game that can resurrect team mates. 
 While many people consider Factions to be the worst in the Universe so far, that doesnt mean the 
 game isnt bad. The two new classes are much worth it as far the new skills for older classes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oogieboogie8
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars: Factions is an amazing and addicting game, which will suck away your time. The game 
 is very different from any MMORPG out there, as you will find out. Factions has a vast storyline 
 and features a huge landmass to explore, although not as large as you will find in Guild Wars: 
 Prophecies. All three games are very similar, and the only differences you will find in each game 
 are the storyline and theme of the game.
  
  Unlike any other mmorpg, when you go out and hunt, there will be no other players wandering around. 
 You get your own copy of that area, and the only way you will ever see other players out of town 
 is if they are in your party. You can still interact and trade with them, but it has to be in a 
 town our outpost. This means there are no servers or anything. Also, when you go out and fight, 
 it is suicide to go out alone, even for an accomplished player. You must always bring parties of 
 4-8 people (depending on how far you are in the game) with you that include healers, or monks, 
 to keep you safe. You shouldnt worry about trying to always get random people to help you on quests, 
 as there are computer controlled henchmen that work just as fine, although they are sometimes stupid. 
 For harder quests and missions you should always take real players to come along. Sometimes, along 
 the main storyline you will come upon cooperative missions, where you must be in a certain area 
 and you gather a party. After gathering a party, you press the enter mission button and the mission 
 automatically starts. You can also use henchmen here, except it is not recommended because these 
 missions require much teamwork.
  
  Next comes character customization. Instead of having just one primary class, in Guild Wars you 
 need to have a secondary class too. Its sort of confusing in the beginning, but you will catch 
 on. There are eight character classes in all, which include the warrior, who uses the axe, hammer, 
 or sword to fight. The elementalist, who uses the forces of fire, water, air, and earth to destroy 
 foes. The monk, who use healing and protection magic to heal and protect allies. Rangers: who use 
 bows and arrows, and also have an option to own an animal companion. Mesmers: who use illusion, 
 domination, and inspiration magic to destroy a foes health and energy and their enchantments, a 
 necromancer, who can summon minions to do their masters bidding, suck their opponents health, 
 and curses, to cast hex spells on your foes. Factions also include two classes which are exclusive 
 classes: the ritualist, who is connected to the spirit world and can summon spirits to fight, or 
 use channeling magic and restoration to hurt foes and heal allies. And finally the assassin, who 
 uses dagger mastery, shadow arts, and deadly arts to quickly kill their target before they even 
 have a chance to strike back. Theres also the scythe-wielding dervish and the god-touched paragons, 
 but those classes are exclusive to Guild Wars: Nightfall. Like I said earlier, you must have a 
 primary class and a secondary class. When you first start to play, you only have one primary class 
 and can use all the attributes included with the character, including the primary attribute. Then 
 later in the game you can choose a secondary profession, and you also get all the attributes of 
 that class but the primary attribute. The armor you wear is based on your primary attribute. For 
 example, an elementalist's attributes are air magic, fire magic, earth magic, water magic, and 
 their primary attribute, energy storage, which gives them plus three energy for each rank in energy 
 storage. Then you want to make your secondary a monk, which attributes are healing prayers, protection 
 prayers, smiting prayers, and their primary attribute, divine favor, which grants a healing bonus 
 whenever you cast a spell on your allies, or yourself. If your secondary is monk, you will not 
 get the divine favor attribute and will only have access to healing, protection, and smiting prayers.
 
  
  Guild Wars also features player vs. player, which is really one of the best parts of guild wars. 
 There are random battles and team battles, where you and three other people fight gladiator style. 
 Theres also heroes ascent, where you and seven other players fight to control the hall of heroes. 
 The last one is zaishen challenge, where it is just like team battling, except you and four other 
 people are facing computers. In guild wars, you can also join a union, a huge group of people who 
 work together. You can talk to everyone in the guild at any time, using the guild chat. Each guild 
 can also be in an alliance, which is like a huge group of people who can interact with each other 
 using the alliance chat. Each guild has a guild hall, where guild members can participate in scrimmages 
 or alliance battles. Factions storyline is based on the Luxons vs. Kurzricks, and depending on 
 what your alliances side is on, you will fight for them. When you enter ab, you get a party of 
 four and enter battle. When it starts, you and two other groups of your luxons or kurz gather together 
 to fight the opposing luxon or kurzrick. All together it is 12 vs. 12, and you get to participate 
 in an epic battle where you must capture shrines. Every couple of seconds you capture a shrine, 
 your side gets points. Whenever one side reaches 500 points, they win and the battle is over. After 
 each win you get faction points, which you can use to get prizes.
  
  Overall, you will enjoy Guild Wars very much; it is something new and different, which is exciting. 
 Although in factions you will come to some ridiculously hard missions or quests, you will learn 
 to still have fun. The graphics are amazing too, and if you buy this game, chances are youll still 
 be playing till next year when Guild Wars 2 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr4goN_PL
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars: Factions is the second game in the well-known Guild Wars universe. It's tells the story 
 of a man who assassinated the Emperor of Cantha 200 years before the current year. Shiro Tagachi 
 seeks to regain his mortality and turn back to the land of Cantha, from where he would destroy 
 the world. Your task is simple: banish Shiro back to the Underworld before he does the same to 
 you (and the rest of the world) . The game's main focus is PvP, although developers have created 
 a decent PvE environment. ArenaNet has added a new PvP game style: the Alliance Battles. Now up 
 to ten guilds can ally with each other and work for one of the two families -- Kurzicks to the 
 west, or Luxons to the east -- who are under a constant war on the southern part of Cantha. Through 
 completion of quests (but mainly through the Alliance Battles) players gain their family's faction 
 points (Luxon faction points for fighting against Kurzicks and vice versa) .
  In their adventure through PvE mode, players will study under the greatest hero of Cantha -- a 
 Ritualist known as Master Togo. Soon after their studies, they find out that a strange plague beset 
 Minister Cho's estate. After solving that problem, the player finds out it to be Shiro's doing. 
 Players chase after the spirit, preventing him to bind spirits of famed Canthan heroes to his will, 
 they unite the two families, and, ultimately, they banish Shiro back to the Underworld. The game 
 adds two new professions: the Assassin, capable of quick killing of a single target and the Ritualist 
 -- a mage who calls upon the powers of the Mists itself to bind spirits to his will.
  The game is a lot harder than the other two. Some missions require a lot of preparation and coordination 
 of 16 players (8 players on the either Kurzick or Foreign side and 8 on Luxon or Canthan side) . 
 Graphics are quite the same as in Prophecies. Sound is well-composed, as always. If you have all 
 other Guild Wars games, get Factions immediately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crypt_mx
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is a good game and plays well. The story takes you up against all sorts of ugly creatures 
 across the vast asian lands of Cantha. The story revolves around Shiro, the Emperor's body guard. 
 When a strange fortune teller says that the Emperor plans to kill Shiro, he takes it into his own 
 hands to deal with him. The game has an OK story that cannot possibly match the first. The armors 
 and weapons all look good, if you like the asian styles. The whole game just looks good and plays 
 good, but doesn't quite do what the first one did for us. This game really shines on the PvP (player 
 v. s player) . It brings Alliance Battles (AB) up to the plate. AB is a 12 on 12 match where you 
 takeover posts and kill for points. The first to 500 wins. You play across Kurzick and Luxon turf, 
 pushing the boundaries with every battle. As you fight for a side of your choice ,you also gain 
 Luxon or Kurzick faction points, to represent which side you like. Factions is a good game, that 
 should be played no matter who you are. If you started with the first game you wont like this as 
 much. But if this is your first guild wars game, it is sure to blow you away! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ognen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 3:47 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars Factions is an interesting kind of game wich is an online game, but features an RPG 
 elements. The story is realy interesting. The game is a standalone continiue of the Guild Wars 
 Prophecies, and is like hole new campaign of Factions. Besides the Monk, Warrior, Elementalist, 
 Necromancer, Ranger and Mesmer proffesions, Factions introduces two new classes - Assasin and Ritualist. 
 Also, now you may continue your adventure in Cantha, a hole new World, with new items, dungeons, 
 places, people and quests. The graphics of Factions are like all average 2006 releases. But we 
 all know that in MMO graphics are not the main thing. There are many other elements that make Cantha 
 way more a beatiful world. This release features 13 missions... The PvP mode of the game is one 
 of the favourite things of the Factions players. It is realy funny to play versus other players 
 from the world. Anyone who would reccomend you to buy factions, would be for it's great PvP elements. 
 The game is great to be continiued from prophecies, but also to start as a first campaign. For 
 any MMO and RPG fan, this is a must-have thing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misha97
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  An amazing addition to Guild Wars with 2 new proffesions. The first new proffesion is the Assassin, 
 the assassin does huge damage but is easily killed. The other new proffesion is the Ritualist, 
 the Ritualist is a spell caster that is skilled at casting spirits and healing.
  The PvP is excellent. You can choose to be a Luxon or a Kurzick. The Luxons are located in the 
 Jade Sea, a beautifull ocean frozen, in jade.
  Meanwhile the Kurzicks are located in Echovald Forest, a dark forest, and where you can find a 
 Black Moa Bird.
  The Graphics and sound, amazing. The setting of this game is kind of like ancient China. With dragons 
 and other fascinating creatures.
  The bad part about this game is that the quests give off way too much xp and about 150 gold. In 
 Prophecies you get about 50 gold and 500 xp each quest. Overall the game is excellent. Just a little 
 challenging.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhii
Rating: 4.1
Date: Aug 9, 2007 10:58 pm PT
Review:  I was so disappointed with Factions. It was not worth my $50. I was so impressed with Prophecies 
 that once I tried this it just wasn't fun to me anymore. Here's why.
  
  In Prophecies, as you went through the missions, you encountered rain forests and jungles, deserts, 
 frozen tundra, grasslands, bogs and wetlands, and fiery hellish islands.
  
  In Factions you get boxy, cardboard cities, and Asian landscape.
  
  In Prophecies you had 25 
 straightforward missions, with 25 bonuses that are one after another along with a fair amount of 
 quests.
  
  In Factions you get missions that aren't so straightforward and a TON of quests that if you don't 
 complete them you can't get to the next mission. There are so many quests in this game I think 
 they had monkeys sitting at type writers making up a whole bunch of jumble about stolen storage 
 containers and weird remedies.
  
  In Prophecies you had great lag management, various arena battles, pets, and just overall neat 
 and exciting game play.
  
  In Factions you get little improvement with a few companions thrown in a 2 new classes.
  
  
 I could go on, but overall I saw little improvement in Factions and a TON of redundancy. It is 
 annoying, the quests are confusing and pointless, and atm I am stuck with some weird Faction thing 
 between Kurzicks and those other guys. Whatever. I like Prophecies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A1B2C3CAL
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  From the moment you create your character you can tell guild wars is a class act and has made a 
 place all of its own in great pc game classics. I can't find one huge negative thing to say about 
 the guild wars series and arenanet.
  
  This is a game you must try out yourself to see if your going to enjoy it. So many things to keep 
 you busy, I feel this game is well worth the price paid. From the PvE to the PvP it has something 
 for everyone.
  
  From the casual player to the hardcore, you can play as you want and not worry about not playing 
 for a few weeks and seeing your money go down the drain as in other pay to play games.
  
  Each of the 3 games GW prophecies, GW factions and GW nightfall are stand alone games and you do 
 not need one to play the other. Soon the expansion pack will be out called GW eye of the north 
 which you will need one of the 3 above games to be able to play GW: EN. This expansion will open 
 the way and set up the storyline to Guild Wars 2 that is being reported to be released sometime 
 in 2008.
  
  The Guild Wars games have something for everyone... casual players and hardcore alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GriffinLord602
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 7, 2007 6:01 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is the second instalment in the epic franchise that is named Guild Wars.
  If you bought the first GW, and youre a fan, well you should definitely buy this one.
  This 
 game brings a huge new continent that is filled with an eastern feel (Japanese/Chinese/Asian etc.) 
 that drags you into the world with the utmost intensity.
  You will find that this game brings a lot more PVP based play, and is more focused on that rather 
 than the campaign. Really it depends how you look at it, and what you prefer if you want a high 
 quality campaign then this instalment hasnt focused much on it that prophecies. But if you want 
 High Class PVP then this is the best out of the series, due to numerous amounts of new ways of 
 PVP, now factions in this game are brought to life, with your guild choosing Kurzick or Luxon, 
 and whole missions and quests based on this factions.
  The actual Continent (Cantha) of the game, in my opinion has a much more surreal and stunning look 
 than it has in Prophecies, due to the exotic feel and concept that the game developer has brought 
 to us gamers. So if your in it for the exploring then this also is the game for you.
  Now when it comes to the new classes, I wasnt a big fan of them, the assassin which is a fast 
 hitting and relies and queuing up moves in specific orders to get maximum damage. But I found this 
 race somehow less entertaining that my originals. The Ritualist which personally I havent tried, 
 so I can basically just say that they summon spirits to aid them and other allies with health, 
 defence, energy and life issues.
  Also as you might expect, you are able to travel from Cantha to Tyria (Vice Versa)
  But in a 
 few words you can describe this game as a sensual and exciting product that any guild wars fan 
 should try out and spend time on.
  I will first rate the gameplay:
  All you can say about this is, it was simple, effective and continued a stylish way of playing 
 throughout, and still maintained it incredibly easy to manage it helps if you have played other 
 online role playing games before.
  Graphics:
  The graphics, yet character graphics have not been changed, I would say that the guild wars team 
 have been able to do a lot more with the landscape and is much more exceptionally beautiful. So 
 in a way the graphics have improved
  Sound:
  The sound was no way as good as the first guild wars, where voice acting is concernedsomehow it 
 felt fake and pointless, But in terms of the power sound effects not much had changed.
  Value:
  Like all of the series the value of this game is exceptional and well worth time and 
 money spent. (NO MONTHLY SUBSCRIPTION)
  Reviewers Tilt:
  I wouldnt recommend you buy this game first out of the seriesbut if you have one already this 
 is well worth adding to the collection and playing the hours it deserves.
  Its an incredibly well structured game where PVP is concernedbut pitty about the let down of the 
 Campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: durodura
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 23, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  bear in mind i have not played GW: prophecies...
  
  when i first played this game i found it to be a little tedious, there is little explanation of 
 the background to the Guild Wars world, and so i felt a little alienated. the setting is very evocative, 
 and the oriental flavour is very convincing, so i stuck with it. i kept coming back and trying 
 to get into the game, but only really felt happy after restarting with different characters. my 
 one tip to anyone who is planning on making this game their first MMORPG, is to find some nice 
 helpful level 20 characters and join their guild. always ask for help on quests until you get to 
 a high enough level to go it alone.
  
  it would be easy to get put off from playing this game at an early stage due mainly to it's lack 
 of a decent plot or any cut scenes, or intro, or ANYTHING that sets up your reason for being there. 
 but the game play is good fun when you get used to building characters, salvaging equipment, and 
 exploring the map. so stick with it people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crystalmethod
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 19, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  Just a pre-note, I'm an avid fan of the original Guild Wars and I've spent so much time on that 
 game that my opinion of Factions is slightly biased. However, if you're coming to Factions for 
 the first time you've got a nice little game under your hands.
  
  Factions is the semi-expansion to Guild Wars in which you get a new continent to go through along 
 with two new playable classes as well as new weapons, new pvp etc. That's essentially the premise 
 of the game. Factions is a personal let down for me, because Factions is basically Guild Wars all 
 over again but with a rubbish story, setting and everything about the game. Once you've fully completed 
 the first guild wars, you've seen everything these semi-expansions have to offer you. So, if you 
 haven't played any guild wars games, go for the original it will be so much more worth it. If you 
 have played the original guild wars, factions will be a good game to keep you occupied but please 
 note it isn't as good as its predecessor and you may be let down. If not, you could simply wait 
 for the first Real expansion; eyeofthenorth this fall.
  
  Factions has a mediocre story to go with it compared to the original game, even by itself it doesn't 
 bode well compared to any other game. The setting is dull, bland and repetitive and some of the 
 co-op missions can be very frustrating and hard which is totally unnecessary when you're not even 
 at the end-game. Some co-op missions take hours on end, to find out that the last boss of the mission 
 is so hard you've wasted all your morning / afternoon for nothing. You raerely got this with the 
 first guild wars considering the co-op missions were relatively short.
  
  You have no sense of progression in factions either, by the time you've come out of the newbie 
 island you're ALREADY level 20!!! So basically, by this point you feel that you have nothing more 
 to achieve and you're merely wasting your time and your effort going through this game; and that's 
 true. You do get nothing out of it and it does feel like you're wasting your time considering as 
 most of the environments are unvaried and you're already at the maximum level.
  
  The only praise I could give to this game is the theme of the game; i. e. some oriental continent. 
 However, that premise in any game appeals to me anyway. It's not that well done in Factions and 
 it doesn't suit the Guild Wars franchise.
  
  So to summarise, Factions isn't the game everyone hypes it up to be. If you've played Guild Wars 
 and you loved it, don't expect too much from Factions. If you're a Guild Wars virgin play the original. 
 Factions is not that good of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skyfaze
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 13, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is shorter than the original guild wars, but offers two more classes, the Assassin and 
 the Ritualist. This game delivers a new experience taking you through a new area with armor, skills, 
 you name it. The graphics in this game are great, with very nicely designed environments, skills, 
 and character design. The sound you can't complain about, you have it on, it'll add some feel to 
 the game, you have it off.. won't change much.
  
  This game does not require a monthly fee so is great for people on a budget. The game doesn't take 
 too long to get through if you can find groups, since nearly everything is group dependent that 
 may or may not take awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KillErmarinE15
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 28, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Yes that is right World of Warcraft and Diablo! Oh wait did I say WoW on the GW board??! Sorry 
 but this game is exactly like them. As in your in a huge world with millions of people, but as 
 soon as you leave a town or city you get your own private copy of the map. The only way to see 
 other people is invite them to your party. Sounds a bit lame but it is really fun.
  The graphics in Guild Wars are superb! They are not cartoony like WoW's every thing has a good 
 looking texture, espically the people. I have never seen people with such detail on them, well 
 besides XBOX 360 but a online game with millions others playing without a monthly fee, that is 
 simply awesome.
  Yes thats right NO MONTHLY FEE! No paying 15 bucks a month or 5 a month (Runescape) . That is great. 
 And the game is constantly updated, there are a lot of patches but you don't have to use your money 
 so the creators can make a patch. That is also really awesome.
  Fighting in GuildWars is very simple click, click skills ect.. It is great fun though! The PvP 
 also kicks ass. Some of the best I have ever played. Skills in Guild Wars are good pretty varied. 
 The enviroments in Factions are goodish. Very repeated though, just a huge urban enviroment. Besides 
 Luxon and Kurzick but I will let you find out about that so I dont spoil it for you.
  This game is a def buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_zelda_dude
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 27, 2007 12:14 pm PT
Review:  Since I reviewed both Nightfall and Prophecies I thought I should probably review Factions. Factions 
 brings to us 2 new proffesions the Ritualist and the Assasin which both bring into the game more 
 fun! They are both for the better though the Ritualist has now died down a bit nowadays. Not only 
 has the Ritualist but the hype of the whole game of Factions was lowered by the onslaught of Nightfall 
 bringing 2 newer and more badass proffesions. Yet even though Prophecies and Nightfall are better 
 then this game, fans of the series shouldnt overlook this game. It has a beautiful artistic design 
 and graphics. It combines PVP and PVE in some areas and offers a decent PVE part. Yet PVP is emphasized 
 in factions, where prophecies and Nightfall suffer is there lack of AB or Alliance Battles. This 
 has brought a great amount of importance in guilds and if you dont have factions, you probably 
 wont be let in some guilds because of the need of faction points.
  Factions is a great addition to the series and definitly shines in the PVP area of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xsouljah_89
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 19, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  There was a sale at EB. 2 games for $50 (AU) . I got the game I wanted, but couldn't choose a second, 
 so I picked this up for the heck of it.
  
  ****************!!!!!!! POINT OF VIEW ALERT!!!!!!!****************
  
  
 
  
  Started of going pretty well, provided a fresher look at MMORPG's. But then I looked back to Neverwinter 
 Nights (the first one &amp; it's expansions) . This played alot like it, but very choppy. Then I 
 looked back at my WoW experiences, and I'm sorry to say but this game really didn't impress me 
 on many levels at all. It also made me think back to the freely downloaded version of Risk Your 
 Life; which was an awesome game for it's type... the in-game world was HUGE!!!! AND YOU COULD PVE 
 WITHOUT PLAYING WITH POORLY SCRIPTED AI!!!!!!
  
  I didn't like having to join a group to get to play with people in the PvE environment, and it 
 wasn't challenging enough to justify joining a group anyway. The PvP was OK, but I won't be spending 
 too much time doing it.
  
  I'll be honest, I'm not here flaming Guild Wars, but giving my honest opinion. I DON't like this 
 game because:
  
  1. It reminds me of too many other games that did everything and more that GW can do.
  2. WTF 
 is happening on screen half the time?
  3. Do I need to play with braindead AI to complete missions to avoid only having three players 
 in the group?
  4. The Guild Communites/Server Population does not compare to WoW.
  5. 8 spells/abilites allowed at one time????????? I had to download additional interface slots 
 in WoW to accomodate my character's spellbook.
  6. Interface is shonky - If you're grouped with AI, they will run around like headless chooks not 
 allowing you to select precisely what you want, and generally lacking any ability to stick to one 
 target.
  
  I DO like this game because:
  
  1. No monthly charge d (*_*d)
  2. It made me appreciate much older games that were better. (NWN+SoU+HotU)
  That's all I have 
 at the moment.
  
  IF YOU'RE TIRED OF WOW, GIVE THIS A GO. BUT ODDS ARE, IF YOU STILL LIKE TO PLAY WOW, YOU'LL NEVER 
 PLAY PAST WHAT YOU HAVE TO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExiledTemplar
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 16, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  In the game your in a world of Asian culture and has real good music and graphics to boot. What 
 I like the most is how you can pick an Assassin, so basicly you can be a ninja in the game, to 
 me thats the ultimate man. You can also choose to become the Ritualist, a fine example of a support 
 unit with the ability to summon spirits and dish out enhancement spells and healing spells on your 
 side, while tossing out some fine attacks. Well the story line is awesome too, yet it has a flaw 
 in it also, yet i can't say that here. But I can say that Shiro, though tough looking, is pretty 
 easy to kill. Yet in Kaineng city his Afflicted are a **** to kill when you only have henchmen 
 with you. I also like how they gave new skills to the Core classes, yet summoning up minions takes 
 away all my Energy. All in all, this game is a great chocie if you just got Guild Wars and want 
 more. Hopefully you will like, Guild Wars: Factions as much as I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stonefacekilla
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 15, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars Factions, it is difficult to say anything bad about it. Its a good game but there are 
 set backs like the sounds and graphics but thats fine cuz its a PC game but the sound effects should 
 be better then what they are. Its entertaining and i love the storyline, but i think it should 
 be followed longer. I give it a 9.3 cuz its so addictive it is fun for awhile, but after you play 
 it forever and ever it gets annoying. Its a little harder then the other Guild Wars games. All 
 I can really say is its a pretty good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huytttr
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 13, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  I have not been known to play many mmorpg but I thought one day that I would pick this game up. 
 I would of waited till it went down but I really wanted to see if this game was good or not. I 
 went home and started to play it and I was instantly hooked on the deep enriched storyline which 
 stayed true throught the game. Basicly your a hero trying to stop a plague that has been going 
 on throught the entire land. You also have to stop verious people from gaining revenge upon the 
 land. Gameplay: the gameplay was very fun and there are many missions you can do for a variety 
 of rewards. The battling is the same as other rpg and there are many different things you can do, 
 like craft weapons and sell them which i thought is really fun. and other things which i wont explain 
 in full detail. Also it was kinda hard for me to learn the builds so it takes some time to get 
 used to. Graphics: I consider these graphics a big upgrade from wow. The enviorement seems very 
 beutiful (for a lack of a better word) and the charecters seem very real. Sound: The sound is very 
 cool. You can hear seaguls and the ocean and the breeze among the sky. The charecters in the cutscenses 
 kinda talk differently than what i expected , but they still sounded cool. Value: 3 words. No monthly 
 Fee. This sounds too good to be true. This game has many people online and it is very fun. It is 
 a lot more fun to be knowing your having fun while not having to pay monthly fee. This makes the 
 value very good and now u can find this game for 39.99$. Tilt: pretty much agree with gamespot scores.. 
 Not too much difference. Overall: Buy this game if your looking for a great game that is very good 
 for value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElithKhan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 3, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  The same is set in an Asian Esq. Continent known as Cantha.
  
  You begin the campaign on a small island at the bottom left of the map. You are a student in the 
 Shing Jea Monastery and you are a budding student.
  
  If you played Prophecies prepare for a few changes, for instance levelling is a lot quicker, you 
 will probably be level 20 by the time you leave the island to go to the main land or almost there. 
 (About 12 hours of playing)
  
  The environments are stunning for the best part, the slum area around the imperial city is a bit 
 of an eyesore to be honest, but thankfully you dont spend to long there.
  
  Graphically the game is impressive, effects from skills look as good as ever, the characters look 
 the part, and everything visually looks brilliant.
  
  The sound is basically the same as Prophecies, not many changes, probably only thing I noticed 
 that was oddset in Asiano Asian accents.
  
  Factions brought a few new things to the table; it brings 12vs12 pvp (Alliance Battles) , two new 
 classes, and a truckload of new skills, weapons, armour and missions.
  
  Basically in Factions about 2/3rds of the way through you will be asked to pick a faction either 
 Kurzicks or Luxons. Depending on which you pick depends on what main missions you will get for 
 the last part of the game. The Kurzicks are gothic looking guys who live in the forests on the 
 south side of the main island and the Luxons live on the west side of the main island on the Jade 
 Sea. They are not on friendly terms to say the least. This is where 12vs12 comes into play. You 
 can access through your guildhall a special PvP area where you will get to join up with players 
 from your faction and fight against the other. Alliance Battles consist of capture points, the 
 more capture points you have the more points your team gets for killing people, the first to 500 
 points winssimple.
  
  The two new classes in factions are the Assassin and the Ritulist.
  
  Assassin: -
  
  The 
 assassin is a quick and deadly character who can deal out damage quick and effectively, they are 
 extremely deadly against any class if used properly. They use small daggers to fight with. Assassins 
 skills work differently from any other, you have to chain attacks together. A lead attack followed 
 by an off-hand and finally a duel attack. It means you have to put thought into your build and 
 not just bash off skills. They also have the ability to port from place to place using certain 
 skills, which means being able to jump in kill the enemy monk then jump back out.
  
  Ritulist: -
  
  The Ritulist has the ability to summon spirits onto the battle field to aid 
 you and your team mates in battle, either by shielding them from damage or blinding the enemy it 
 is attacking, they can also power your team mates up so there weapons deal more damage or there 
 weapon actually heal them. They can dish out a fair amount of damage with a few skills, and are 
 able to assist monks in healing.
  
  Weapons/Armour: - A bunch of new skins for weapons have been added into the game, along with new 
 boss items that are unique. All classes have new armour available to them as well now, and depending 
 on which faction you pick depends on what your armour will look. For instance the Kurzick armour 
 looks quite knight like where as the Luxon warrior armour actually looks quite alien to an extent.
 
  
  Skills: - If you played Prophecies you may notice that a few skills you actually have are in factions 
 just under different names, I guess this happened just to balance the game out so that people with 
 only factions werent underpowered. But there are a lot of new skills that will keep you content 
 in finding new builds for your characters. There are also new elite skills for every class.
  
  Overall: -
  
  Factions campaign shouldnt take you too long to complete but with the amount 
 of areas to explore and new class to master it will keep you content for a long time to come. Factions 
 may take you a while to get used to if you have played Prophecies due to how fast the campaign 
 and levelling system is but after you have completed it once you will be able to fully settle into 
 the amazing campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BewilderedRonin
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 9, 2007 1:08 pm PT
Review:  The thing that got me to buy Factions was not the classes, but the skills. And that's where Factions 
 shines the most.
  
  Gameplay: Well, it plays the same as the other Guild Wars games, so... yeah. The main thing that 
 makes Factions a must have is the skills that available to that campaign. Going from Prophecies 
 to Factions, your character will learn some immensly powerful skills. It's not that you don't have 
 good skills in Prophecies, it's just that there are many powerful skills with an extremely low 
 energy cost implemented in Factions. The new skills might take a while for veteran players to get 
 used to, though they shouldn't, really.
  
  A few other notes about Factions' gameplay must include another reason as to why to get this campaign. 
 The Allianc Battles. Once your guild has aligned with either the Luxons or the Kurzicks (you can 
 switch later if you want to) , you can play in Alliance Batttles. These are PvP rounds of 12 vs 
 12 (3 groups of 4) compete to capture shrines that provide various bonuses to your side and award 
 points. Once 500 points is reached, or all points have been captured and held by one side for a 
 short amount of time, that side wins. During thes battles you are awarded Faction Points which 
 you can trade in for various goodies or even buy your own outpost. Factions also allows guilds 
 to form Alliances with other guilds. Basically, a leader guild can align themselves with up to 
 9 other guilds. They wil share alliance chat and be able to freely share members in Guild vs Guild 
 matches and such.
  
  Other than the skills and Aliiance battles, much is still the same, but with a few new twists. 
 The new professions require different approaches to your enemies and you will very often be overwhelmed 
 by hordes of enemies. The game often sends wave after wave after wave of lvl. 20 and lvl. 22 mobs 
 to try and take you down. Fortunately, the new skills provided should help you make short order 
 of these foes. Also, you level up fairly quickly. So, even if you choose to start a new character 
 using one of the two new professions, it won't take too long before you are full lvl. 20 and ready 
 to go and kick some butt. The learning curve for the new professions is fairly low if you have 
 played Guild Wars before. If not, then it will definitely take longer.
  
  Speaking of new characters and new professions... Adding this game to your previous account gives 
 you 2 more character slots. The new professions are both very niche, but also very powerful in 
 their own right. - The Assassin uses teleportation and spike damage attacks as well as poison and 
 conditions to disable, debilitate, and shut down opponents. The Assassin is NOT a melee character 
 and will be easily destroyed if caught on the front lines. Instead, their purpose is to find a 
 target and wipe them out quickly.
  
  - The Ritualist has the ability to conjure spirits, somewhat simialr to some Ranger skills, but 
 in a much different way. The Ritualist's spirits can act as some of the ranger spirits do, providing 
 buffs and damage bonuses, ect., but they can also spawn spirits that are able to physically attack 
 opponents. The ritualist is more of a buff caster and backup healer. Thopugh the ritualist is not 
 meant to replace a Monk, they can certainly make a Monk's job easier as many of the spirit bonuses 
 cannot be stripped like a Monk's enchantments can.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The setting of Factions is on the continent of Cantha, which has a feudal oriental appeal to it. 
 The level design is stunningly well done and the enviroments are incredibly beautiful. The character 
 models for the new professions are well done and they look very good as well. The new armors available 
 for the core professions are pretty cool and there are 7 new styles to choose from, as well as 
 3 styles from the Prophecies campaign. Skill animations and effects are well done, and provide 
 a bit more flash than the Prophecies ones. The enemies are well done and the cutscenes look great. 
 The truly impressive thing that most players will notice, however, is the superbly well done levels 
 and the beautiful, rich, exotic scenery.
  
  Sound:
  
  Not a whole lot to report on this. Well done arcade-like sounds effects for the skills and typical 
 screams and grunts from the dying. The one improvement in Factions is that the cutscene voiceovers 
 are better equalized. Often, in Prophecies, the sound level for one of the voices would drop or 
 the equalization levels for the recorded voice would change. That is not the case, thankfully, 
 with Factions.
  
  Value:
  
  A fun game, good skills, new PvP format, new guild structure, new armors, new professions, new 
 enemies, new weapons, and... well, I'm sure I'm leaving something out. If you own any of the other 
 campaigns, you should get this. However, if you are looking to get into Guild Wars, I'd recommend 
 getting either Nightfall or Prophecies, as this campaign seems to lean towards the more experienced 
 Guild Wars player and the learning curve for some newcomers might be just too much.
  
  Wrap up:
  
  A great campaign that often gets trashed and bashed by those that seem to have 
 forgotten how much this campagn brought to the table. The only thing that I really grew tired of 
 was the constant waves of bad guys. It would have been nicer to face less foes, but higher level 
 and better equipped. Instead you are left to hack, smash, nuke, and wear away at continous droves 
 of badies.
  
  A must buy if you own any of the other campaigns, but if you want to get started with Guild Wars, 
 once again, go with either Nightfall or Prophecies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terial1901
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  This is definently the best of 3 Guild Wars to date. The new professions, new characters, and an 
 intricate storyline bringing in the history of the original in my opinion, makes this one of the 
 best games ever. If you are looking for a wide-spread MMORPG that has a lot of value, screw Runescape, 
 Grab Guild Wars Factions. You will NOT be dissappointed at this Masterpiece. If you aren't social 
 in gameplay, you dont have to interact! Guild WArs makes it so you can become extremely powerful, 
 even powerful enough to destroy 10 characters of a higher level than yours.
  I can only rate this Magnificent game a 10 Out of 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redfury0101
Rating: 7.6
Date: May 5, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars Factions is much different from the original Guild Wars. However, the graphics and game 
 play are pretty much the same. The artwork now is much different with more of an eastern inspired 
 look and architecture. The story in this game is what is most disappointing. There are only 13 missions 
 making it seemed rush. As well as the quests that could level you up to at least level 10 in a matter 
 of a few hours. The quest rewards can be as much as 3,500 experience. There is surprisingly, a reason 
 for this. The 13 missions that you go through are much more challenging than the original. Once your 
 on the 4th mission chances are you will be level 20 (by the way if you're not you have no chance 
 of winning) . Overall Guild Wars Factions is both more of the same but with many differences than 
 the original game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: obgoblin0
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 20, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Hi, I'm a lover of the Guild Wars Series and can't wait for Eye of the North and number 2 :) . The 
 problem with Factions is the music, not really traditional and theres not much added on from the 
 Prophecies except 2 new proffesions.
  The good parts are the graphics! Having them on high detail is immense. The community its very 
 nice, no one is calling each other noobs.
  Also Guild Wars is very different from WoW guild wars isn't about leveling its more teamwork and 
 getting skills.
  I know this is a short reveiw but I hope you enjoy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NigelDucan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 13, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  If you're looking for a great MMO and don't mind paying a little price for it, then definately 
 buy thiss game. It's got great graphics except sometimes it takes a little while for the graphics 
 to load when you switch areas. This game definately keeps you hooked to the computer for a long 
 time. You never want to stop playing really. I defiantely recomend this game for anybody. It has 
 great gameplay and too. I definately like the fact that you can pick what proffesion you want and 
 you can choose a second proffesion to go with it. You defiantely should get this game if you have 
 the Guild Wars Prophecies game because it works as a wonderful expantion pack for the game. I highly 
 recomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezekielzero
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 16, 2007 3:34 am PT
Review:  This is one of my newest games. Its great fun even though its slow to start it becomes impossible 
 to stop. How is a free online game not good the pvp is the best. Go luxons. then theres the centre 
 of the game the factions. You can choose to work for either the luxons or the kurzicks both are 
 great but the best thing is that you actually take places on the map. Brilliant. The graphics are 
 also good great considering this game came out a year ago. The sound is good. The best thing though 
 is the theme, asia which makes the game feel completely different from the other guild wars installments. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: komanko
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 13, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars Factions is the worset guild wars game from all of the series.
  All the game is in Japan/China of the guild wars universe.
  And the whole story of the game is 
 very reapeatable by each mission that they made.
  But...
  there are cool proffesions and guild wars factions and even without that this game even if he is 
 the worset of the series ill give him 9+ because its better from much more MMORPG games that i 
 know and ill put him at one of the best!
  Another dissapointment is that the game is very short and super easy you gain levels to fast and 
 if you are playing like a week 3 hours a day youll finish it very fastly.
  Still the sounds are very good, graphics are impressive and the money is worth the game i sugestt 
 that not only to buy this game but to put it in the MMORPG games that you want to buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jakiscool
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 7, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  The role-playing part of the game is much easier than Guild Wars Prophecies. It does not take as 
 much time to get through the game. There are new enemies, armor sets and unique weapons that drop. 
 The Assasin has awesome abilities such as shadow-stepping to enemies or allies and there attacks 
 are quick and devastating. Assasin Motto: Strike quick before enemy can react. Ritualists can summon 
 many spirits that can aid allies and do massive amounts of damage as well. PvP is basically the 
 same as before, but still very fun. You can pick 2 sides: Luxon or Kurzrick. They have a constant 
 battle going on with each other and you can join in instantly. Alliance battles are a new type 
 of PvP with 12 players on each side. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkskeleton6
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 31, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  I think this is a great game you can play it for fun but you can get really into it and get soo 
 much better . If any one reads this please send me a friend invite i can help with new comers and 
 help with others my name is Verne Rico. Hope to see you on there. And Also any one that has xbox 
 360 live please as well contact me Wafro Kid. Happy playing on guild wars. And if anyone can tell 
 me or help me in guild wars as well maybe become friends and work stuff out or if you want to join 
 a guild say to me and i am an officer so i can get you in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foreverzero56
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars Factions is the second installment in this groundbreaking and award winning series, 
 and while it does a great job of continuing the series, it falls short in a lot of areas that might 
 make players that loved the original just a little unhappy....
  
  This time the story is set in Cantha, an Asiatic based island nestled somewhere in the oceans of 
 Tyria. A mysterious plague has overtaken the land and it is your job to set off on an adventure 
 to find out why....
  
  Factions adds in two new playable characters, an Assassin and a Ritualist. The Assassin is a fast 
 in your face character, relying on its teleportation skills and chains of combos to unleash a heavy 
 amount of damage in a short period of time before exiting the battle to a safe location. The Ritualist 
 uses a series of summon spells, calling up spirits which do different effects in the field from 
 health gaining to nasty effects to your enemies. While the Ritualist is similar to the Shaman from 
 World of Warcraft, it does a great job at remaining unique in its application....
  
  If you chose to create one of the two new characters, you will start out on a separate island called 
 Shing Jae. Unlike the starting area of the first Guild Wars, were you leave before you are leveled 
 up very high, this time you will leave the starting area when you are anywhere from level 15-20, 
 meaning all of the main game content is designed for your higher level characters. This does well 
 as you can port your characters from the first game to the new world, and start out from the main 
 island of Cantha, without having to go through the new starting area....
  
  The biggest problem with this game is its length. Once off the starting island, it is very possible 
 to beat all of the factions story line within a day or two, and very easy to complete within a 
 week or two for a casual gamer. This is a little bit of a letdown for the pve fans who loved the 
 lengthy story line of the first game.....
  
  This game is much harder then the original, which provides a more edge of your seat sense of battle, 
 however it can also cause lots of frustration at certain times. Factions however does add in some 
 new content to the game not previously seen, most of which is pvp based....
  
  On the island of Cantha are two warring factions, the Luxons, a pirate like society based on Darwin's 
 law of natural selection, and the Kurzick's, a tree dwelling society based heavily in religion. 
 During the course of your adventures you will chose to align yourself with one of these factions, 
 unlocking the quest for the given side along with allowing you to compete in giant pvp wars for 
 control of the map....
  
  These giant battles generally consist of 12 people fighting in a similar way to the style found 
 in Battlefield 2. There are different areas set up on the map, and by standing in them you take 
 control. Whichever side controls more shrines, will gain more points as the battle rages on. Whichever 
 team gets to 500 points, wins. These battles are a lot of fun and open up a good area of pvp for 
 people who don't like the heavy, strict pvp combat that some of the other areas tend to offer....
 
  
  While it is a good concept in its design, it can be a little tiresome to work for one side or the 
 other. A good example of this, is at one point in the game you have to collect 10,000 factions 
 for one side or the other to progress in the story line. This can either be achieved by pvping 
 in the areas mentioned before, or by doing a series of quest that offer several thousand faction 
 at a time. While this helps lengthen the gameplay some, it can become a repetitive task to those 
 wishing to bring many characters through the story line. Also it can create a forced situation 
 for people who do not like to do side quest or to pvp, in now they have to chose at least one to 
 move on....
  
  Thankfully this faction serves more of a purpose then just buying your way through. You can trade 
 in your stash of faction for amber or jade, depending on which side you align yourself with. This 
 in tern can be used to purchase new armor only available to that side....
  
  Luckily your account is not bound to one side or the other, and you can change sides between characters 
 or even on the same character as you see fit, opening up a little bit of re-playability. Which 
 is good seeing as you now get a special item for defeating the end boss, which you can trade in 
 for a powerful end game item, adding in a much bigger reason for beating the story line unlike 
 the original....
  
  Overall it is a good game and a good continuation to the series. Die hard Guild Wars fans might 
 be a little turned off at this second game in the series, but most everyone will find the gameplay 
 enjoyable and the two new classes fun to play. The game also does a great job at adding in tons 
 of new weapons and armor, along with skills, which make the purchase very worth while for anyone 
 interested in expanding their Guild Wars collection.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: candyblader
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 25, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  when i played the game i liked it and started to get some friends to play and we were playing till 
 midnight for a while then we all got to lvl 20 and pretty much after explored the rest of the region 
 and then we pvped but then we got kinda of bored of how are characters were pretty much easy to 
 play so we made new ones in the expansion and they are pretty good after you mastered their skills 
 then your pretty much good to go groups: if you have friends that play the game tell them to come 
 on when your on and group up till beat missions that are normaly to hard to beat if you only have 
 bots
  if your alone and you want to do a mission i would always put the healer on the top and the warrior 
 on the bottom.
  
  missions:
  as i said before if friends play this game group with them if not ill help you out a little with 
 always having to group with bots
  1 always make sure you watch your healer if your a healer and your healer died then rez him/her
 
  2 now you get flag placements which can be found under your mini map so you can sit back a little 
 to watch bots fight instead of you always taking all the damage
  3 if your a necromancer like i was and you like to summon minions then dont go with the bot necromancer 
 because he/she will always steal the body away from you
  4 there are missions where you group with the first game and they have a healer on that mission 
 you want to keep a close eye on both your healer and the other teams healer
  5 on missions you normaly have a guy who you have to protect your healer does a good job on healing 
 but you sometimes will have to just take some damage for who ever you are supposed to protect through 
 the game
  
  player vs player:
  pvp is pretty decent all you have to do is go to character screen creat a pvp player and after 
 you done that you can set up the armor and weapons you want to use after you got everything you 
 wanted you can either go to deathmatch pvp, guild battles, or fraction battle 1 deathmatch is pretty 
 simple just elemenate the other team
  2 guild battles are where you have a base and there could be 1 other team or 2 teams whatever it 
 is you have to destroy the enemy guild master or you could play defense and guard your guild master 
 and who ever guild master is still alive wins.
  3 fraction battles is where there are station that you and your team have to get when you capture 
 a station you team starts to get points first team up to 500 wins
  
  over all:
  the game good since it doesnt require monthly pay but the game is kinda of short since it only 
 lets you go to lvl 20 i would say if you played this game for a day you would play for a while 
 but after that you do kinda get tried of it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathking29
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 17, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  when i played the game i liked it and started to get some friends to play and we were playing till 
 midnight for a while then we all got to lvl 20 and pretty much after explored the rest of the region 
 and then we pvped but then we got kinda of bored of how are characters were pretty much easy to 
 play so we made new ones in the expansion and they are pretty good after you mastered their skills 
 then your pretty much good to go groups: if you have friends that play the game tell them to come 
 on when your on and group up till beat missions that are normaly to hard to beat if you only have 
 bots
  if your alone and you want to do a mission i would always put the healer on the top and the warrior 
 on the bottom.
  
  missions:
  as i said before if friends play this game group with them if not ill help you out a little with 
 always having to group with bots
  1 always make sure you watch your healer if your a healer and your healer died then rez him/her
 
  2 now you get flag placements which can be found under your mini map so you can sit back a little 
 to watch bots fight instead of you always taking all the damage
  3 if your a necromancer like i was and you like to summon minions then dont go with the bot necromancer 
 because he/she will always steal the body away from you
  4 there are missions where you group with the first game and they have a healer on that mission 
 you want to keep a close eye on both your healer and the other teams healer
  5 on missions you normaly have a guy who you have to protect your healer does a good job on healing 
 but you sometimes will have to just take some damage for who ever you are supposed to protect through 
 the game
  
  player vs player:
  pvp is pretty decent all you have to do is go to character screen creat a pvp player and after 
 you done that you can set up the armor and weapons you want to use after you got everything you 
 wanted you can either go to deathmatch pvp, guild battles, or fraction battle 1 deathmatch is pretty 
 simple just elemenate the other team
  2 guild battles are where you have a base and there could be 1 other team or 2 teams whatever it 
 is you have to destroy the enemy guild master or you could play defense and guard your guild master 
 and who ever guild master is still alive wins.
  3 fraction battles is where there are station that you and your team have to get when you capture 
 a station you team starts to get points first team up to 500 wins
  
  over all:
  the game good since it doesnt require monthly pay but the game is kinda of short since it only 
 lets you go to lvl 20 i would say if you played this game for a day you would play for a while 
 but after that you do kinda get tried of it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 20, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  RPGs r mostly the same u kill monsters and level up. Massively Multiplayer ones (or whatevery they 
 r called) usually include shallow, simply quest that help u earn gold, lvl up and stuff. U will 
 be able to easily meet new ppl, join parties to make lvling funner. Most will also have their own 
 unique ideas and features. Single player RPGs will have a immersive story and tons of NPCs and 
 things to do. Much more than just killing monsters. Both single and muliplayer RPGs r great and 
 I love them. But Guild Wars??? hmmmm....... not fully multiplayer cause when u fight monsters there 
 r no other players with u : ( making it extremly boring unless u form a party in town which is annoying. 
 Not singly player either cause the stories and quests aren't that amazing and there is nothing 
 else to do but kill monsters and do quests. Not very good. FlyFF is a great examply of a Massive 
 multiplayer RPG thing and the Elder Scrolls is a great example of single player RPGs. Guild Wars 
 is neither. Even Zelda on the N64 was better cause u could fish, ride horses and I forgot the rest. 
 Guild Wars is a no for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer4life95
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 6, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  guild war was great the first time you know the usual rangers, necros ,and warriors but it was 
 better thsn udusl soon guild wars factions came out it's the same old same old helping a powerful 
 city fighting a vicious army of monsters it pretty boring after a while but their are some up's 
 their are new proffesions u can choose from such as an assasin the quests are kinda the same go 
 there and fight something or follow so and so after you get high in lvl it is more fun because 
 you have much more to do i think this game does has it's perks and it downfalls but in the end 
 you have to realize it's a game and the creators sometimes dont know what ur thinking how the game 
 will seem like oh i bet there will be a twist in the story or i bet people are nicer on the game 
 so for my final opinion i think factions is a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samurai93745
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 2, 2007 7:25 pm PT
Review:  There is much to enjoy about factions even if it's not much different from the first game, gameplay 
 whize. There is a different feel to the game because of the asian theme, which is beautiful. The 
 story line is good but I feel as if it could of been better. There are less missions to do, 13 
 unlike the 25 in the first game. Even so the missions can be a little harder sometimes which is 
 good, it's always nice to have a challege. Alliance battles is a new part of the game, allowing 
 you to pick between two factions that fight for land and control of towns and outposts. The two 
 new classes are nice as well, the assassin and the ritualist are added on to the original six. 
 The only part that I found weird to get used to is the way that we get XP. In the first game it 
 took a while to get to lvl20, but in Factions you get there much faster. This happend because they 
 didn't want to have players that were lvl20 already (players that transfered from the first game) 
 to just go through the game like it was nothing. I believe Factions just made the overall Guild 
 Wars game much better and anyone who is just starting or coming from the first game will love it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxtrot89
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 2, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars: Factions
  
  Okay so this game has its ups and downs, but overall it is a great game. If your parents won't 
 get you WOW, then this is the game for you. WAY BETTER THAN EVER-QUEST!!! You are charged monthly 
 to be miserable in that game.
  
  Prologue: OK so there is this guy named Shiro that murders some people. Some other people kill 
 him and his spirit comes back and brings a disease and inflicts people and makes them all deformed. 
 (It is a lot cooler when you watch the beginning video.)
  
  Graphics [8/10]
  
  The graphics are colorful, lush, and buetiful. Except when you get in big enviroments, it looks 
 a bit dull. It kinda gets sloppy. The character design doesn't have as much style as WOW, but are 
 good all the same. You can customize your character to almost anything you want. Gothic Necromancer 
 anyone? How about a blond elementalist? The only real problem I have is in the centimatics, when 
 they talk, their mouths don't move. It's not a big problem yet, sometimes you get a little annoyed. 
 Everything is very detailed. Your own character seems to be more detailed than the others you play 
 with. Like with guild-emblemed-capes, you own is very shiny, while if you were looking at the same 
 emblem on another person, it's a bit pixely. The enviroments make the game all the better. You 
 can go from the desert, to blizzards, to crystal oceans. Yes that's right crystal oceans.
  The graphics are very flashy. If you were to hit someone with your sword then it seems like there 
 is a big explosion on the character. Almost like comicbook bangs and cabaams. Yet leaves an exotic 
 Asian-like twist.
  
  Sound [9/10]
  
  This game's sound has been very well done. The soundtrack that comes with the game makes the atmosphere 
 of GW: Factions all the better. Very happy, to gloomy music sets an example of what is happening 
 to the enviroment, and characters. Each blow you take or give sounds perfect. Unlike the graphics, 
 the sound has much style that is unique to most games. Executing skill sounds almost perfect. Everything 
 from walking up a set of sets, to sending a barrage of arrows at the enemy sounds superb.
  
  Controls [9/10]
  
  Controlling your character on GW is a bit complicated at first, but 
 when you get the hang of it, it becomes second nature. l for missions and quests, I for inventory, 
 etc. You can use the mouse or the keyboard to move. Actually, you don't really need the mouse if 
 you are good with the keyboard. You can target your enemies with [ and ] , and attack by space. 
 The controls are fluent and not awkward unlike many PC games. I think a lot of the controls are 
 uneeded though. Like if you press o then the score chart comes up. Who wants to look at a graph 
 of your life when there is a hp bar below?
  
  Game-play [9/10]
  
  This obviously is the most important part of the game. The game-play focuses a lot on just fighting. 
 There are many other things to do like crafting, farming (killing monsters for items) , and running 
 (taking people from 1 point in the world to another part where they havn't been for gold.) Yet 
 the game isn't satisfying unless you're out there doing quests and missions, and just killing some 
 baddies. Yet, another great part of the game is PvP, GvG, and AB. PvP stands for player vs. player. 
 You may create a PvP character which maxes out your character and lets you play against other PvP 
 characters. GvG is guild vs. guild. Kind of self explanatory. Your guild vs. some other guild. 
 You can be whatever lvl in that. Last is AB, which stands for Alliance Battles. It is kind of like 
 GvG except with a much greater number. You use about 4 teams of 4 fighting the same amount. Depnding 
 what the alliance of your guild is (Luxon or Kurzick) you will fight against the other. When you 
 fight you gain faction and may donate it to your guild so they can raise in rank. Yet the only 
 problem I have with the gameplay is that you can only get to level 20. Granted this game isn't 
 a lot about leveling up as much as customizing your character and fighting in numbers. But I just 
 want to get up some levels and feel powerful. If you were to go out of a city by yourself even 
 if your level 20 you will most likely die within 10 minutes. (Not by fighting for 10 minutes, but 
 running.)
  
  + PROS:
  Great detail your own character
  Good customization
  Very good sound
  
  - Cons:
  Only can get up to level 20
  When getting into big environments 
 objects in the distance look sloppy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link9876
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 25, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars Factions is a great game. The attack system in Factions is very unique and very fun 
 to play. You get to choose what class you want, there are 8 classes, assassin, warrior, elementist, 
 ranger, monk, necromancer, ritualist, and mesmer. Each class has its own unique style and skills. 
 The world of Cantha, which is the world in factions, is absolutely humongous. When you first start 
 the game, you are on a small island called Shing Jea island. Once you look at the map you realize 
 that theres a enormous continent 6 times the size of the island your on now, and Shing Jea island 
 seems pretty big. The best part of guild wars is that its free after you buy the game. Theres no 
 monthly fees. The storyline is very good and extremely long. This game takes a very long time to 
 beat even once. The only thing that could be better about this game is that there could be more 
 classes. They should have made a berserker, or something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: walladude2
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 20, 2007 12:43 pm PT
Review:  So, players of the original Guild Wars were left looking for more after beating the game. Many 
 people thought Factions was to be as good, maybe even better than the original. They were wrong. 
 For the casual PvE (Player versus Environment) player, Factions just does not have a lot to offer. 
 The storyline could have been fixed up, and they could have added moving mouths in the cut-scenes. 
 As for PvP (Player versus Player) , this game really shines. Many people have criticized ArenaNet 
 and NCSoft, but they had time to fix what they messed up in Factions, and did fix it in Nightfall. 
 If you like to play PvE more than PvP, I would suggest not buying this expansion, and opt to buy 
 the new Guild Wars: Nightfall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leakybubbles
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2007 6:38 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of Guildwars and always liked it for over a year. And now that I have all 
 3 games out right now It just get old...
  
  The way u fight is just exacly the same (even if they add new skills and such) I just lost my touch 
 in guildwars but hey its a really fun online game. plus its free online which is really great.
 
  
  I'de recomend you buy this game but.. hmm maybe don't buy nightfall. And if ur gunna buy only one 
 TRY OUT THE ORIGINAL.
  
  The graphics are good in this game. And just like every game people try to scam u for items and 
 its hard to find a willing group of people to play with.
  
  Buy this game for a temporaly good online free game.
  Enjoy it! Then the magic leaves you...
 
  
  Oh! and mute your computer. Yeah basicly the music isn't very good and after the hours and hours 
 that you WILL spend while playing this game you will go crazy with ur sound on!
  
  
  besides all that. Guild Wars: Factions is a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1992warrior
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 15, 2007 9:31 am PT
Review:  ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE 
 ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE 
 ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE 
 ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE 
 ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE 
 ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE 
 ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE 
 ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE 
 ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE 
 ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE 
 ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE 
 ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE ACE Great game but i think the first guild wars is better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhorahill
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 13, 2007 4:59 am PT
Review:  Factions is the first expansion for Guild Wars. Released exactly one year after Guild Wars hit 
 the shelves, Factions maintains the high quality standard of the original game and offers a whole 
 new campaign, new game play modes, professions, items and still maintains the no monthly fee philosophy.
 
  
  Factions maintains the same player vs environment (PvE) and player versus player (PvP) division 
 and further improves both game play styles.
  
  The PvE player can enjoy a whole new and large campaign taken place in the oriental continent of 
 Cantha. It's possible to use your old character from the original game or to create a new Canthan 
 characters. Aside from the new Asian look, Canthan characters can be of two new professions: assassins 
 and ritualists. The main story revolves around a plague brought by the evil spirit of a powerful 
 warrior known as Shiro Tagachi. Whether you're starting a new character or coming from Tyria - 
 first campaign's continent - you'll have to travel to many different places, face numerous criminal 
 organizations and ally yourself with one of the two main factions responsible for defeating Shiro 
 when he was still a mortal being: the Luxons and the Kurzicks.
  
  This division is very important in PvP because even though Luxons and Kurzicks were allied in the 
 past, they now fight each other for control of Cantha.
  
  Players can help in this conflict by joining an Alliance - a group of guilds - and fighting for 
 their chosen side. The dedication of an alliance is measure in faction points, gained by completing 
 quests for a given faction or by earning them in Alliance Battles, a new PvP game to control a 
 territory. The Alliances with more faction can control certain areas of the map. Those areas are 
 the only way players can access Elite missions and farm the most prestigious items in the game.
 
  
  The PvP areas are always crowded and the addition of the Alliance Battles increased the number 
 of PvP players considerably as a lot of people thought that just crushing each other's skulls at 
 the arena lacked purpose - go figure.
  
  Cantha is not beautiful as Tyria - save for a few areas on the Jade Sea - but the game play improvement 
 is hard to measure. NCSoft continues to provide weekly updates in skills, game play, network improvement 
 and even recently introduced lip sync in all movies.
  
  Factions is all one could hope for an expansion. Exciting new campaign and enough change to challenge 
 both new and experienced players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: i_Hakked_WoW
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 8, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This game has some of THE BEST pvp gameplay ive ever seen in an mmo. ab;'s are really 
 innovative and are really fun. graphics: still as good as the original. immersive and beutiful. 
 blows wow out the arse
  
  sound: one of the few games i keep the sound on. these new sounds also really fit the scenery
 
  
  difficulty: much more forward than the others. rushes you into level 20 fast.
  
  learning curve: the hands on tutorial really helps new players. my friend was able to figure out 
 the game in about 20 mins
  
  overall this game is really awesome and whats better it has no monthly fees ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackph0en1x
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 6, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  To learn the game is easy, as immeaditly when you have created your character you will be on an 
 island, and if you have patience enough to wait for the small talk to end you can start learning 
 how to play, how to use weapons, how to move etc. More experienced players can skip this intro 
 and cut to the real game . I personally think it's the best of the (currently) three Guild Wars 
 games.
  
  Graphics are good, though the characters won't move their lips in the cinematics. Leveling system 
 is good, you get quite easily to level 20 (which some think is good, some think is bad) .
  
  This game only costs when you buy it, so it's a plus. Though the game is quite expensive (around 
 50 in Finland)
  
  Just jump away from the TV, get to a game store and buy this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lary22
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 5, 2007 1:27 am PT
Review:  I played the game, but i didn't pay for it..... I friend have give me his password... and i was impressed 
 by this game.
  
  Play the game!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! I will try also the new map and game ... Night Fall... Ciao!.... 
 Lary M. G.
  
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
 
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
 
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
 
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
  Super!
 
  Super!
  Super!
  Super! v 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prue7
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 4, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  i really like this game. the setting, the graphics, the sound (especially the music; unbelievable) , 
 the story is way better than guild wars prophecies, i love the new assassin and the ritualist isnt 
 too bad either (but no too good either ;) ) the tutorial starts off perfectly, introducing one into 
 the story and the fighting system (quite fun; the system i mean^^) .
  the actual game start is also just a pleasure. easy to play, hard to master a friend once told 
 me. this is porbably the understatement of the year.
  
  as easy as the beginning is, as soon as you leave the start-island (level 15/16 out of 20 ) the 
 fun part is almost over. i'd love to report you about the nice story, the (more or less) creative 
 mission designs, the hundres of skills and so on. but fact is that i cant do that because i dont 
 get any further as im stuck at level 17 and cant get ANY quest done i have in my quest log. unfortunately 
 one of them is the main quest (the one that drives the plot :P obviously^^) SO as i am unable to 
 finish this quest because of the super-frustrating fights (there is one quest on the start-island; 
 your group out of max 6 people against about 30 foes at ONE TIME!!! ... impossible...) . the pvp 
 part is flaweless whatsoever, however im not THAT interested in the pvp part that it could outweigh 
 the furstration i feel from the main-story-fights...
  
  if you love hard (and i mean REALLY HARD) games, i really can recommend you this one, if you dont 
 then think about it twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kobra_kaiden
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 27, 2007 2:18 pm PT
Review:  This is an amazing MMORPG considering it has no fee!!!! I love the skills and the professions, 
 but it has some down-sides. U can only see ppl in cities and villages, which suks just a little, 
 it might be more complicated than other MMORPGs and there isnt a variety of weapons but it is AWESOME 
 and VERY addictive. It gets alot funner the more friends u have in ur party, i hate all the loading 
 for the maps but the gameplay is really good. The pvp is really good too. Screw World of warcraft 
 again! this is a very awesome game and I recommend u all to buy it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: col01
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  I find this an interesting addition to Guild Wars. though as i am a relative newcomber (noob) (Newbie) 
 or whatever the colloqialism is. It is easy enough to get into and it is easier to level up here 
 from scratch than it is in Prophecies. That aside, once out of the training mission and into the 
 main gameplay areas, i find it pretty hard going. As a follow up to the original game that is ok 
 I guess. but for a new player i thought it was a little daunting, and frustrating as most missions 
 and quests seemed to be overwhelmingly difficult to do. I for one get fed up very quickly if I 
 can't complete my objectives in game. doing the same thing over and over 30 to 40 times seems a 
 little pointless to me and not really following the true spirite of adventure. But then the game 
 caters for all types of players and play styles.
  
  although I find this difficult, at least at the time of writing. I take regular breaks by visiting 
 other areas in all three editions of the game with other charcaters, then come back to do a bit 
 more with my Factions character.
  
  The whole Guild Wars enviroment though is definately worth a visit especially if your on a budget 
 with no online fees. You might think that the content and quality of the game are deminished by 
 that fact. but Far from it. This is the biggest game I have ever played, and i am nowhere near 
 completing After nearly 4 months of play I have completed about 80% of the first map ay this rate 
 its going to take me a few years to get all round. and as there; s regular updates to the game. 
 I wonder if its possible to ever do everything in the game. My first impression of guildwars is 
 the same as watching the Lord of the rings for the first time. The Artistry and attention to details 
 are astounding. If the Guild Wars series doesn't win major awards for all the work they have put 
 into it then some people really don't know what there missing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Herodite777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  What's not to like? Unlike many MMORPGs the outside world is yours. Don't worry about stupid stuff 
 like waiting for monster respawns cause this other play got to it first. Unless of course you travel 
 in a group with real people (I prefer the NPC henchmen since... well... you don't have to wait for 
 a group and such.)
  
  The community is really nice, and it's easy to start a Guild. The game challenged me. Overall, 
 this game is nice. Play this game, as it has no Online fees. And it's simply unique. Especially 
 since everyone is on the same server. Instead of having different friends on different servers, 
 their all there. When your in a city, just switch to the right district (so that way, you can be 
 in the perfect environment. IF your just passing by, choose a less populated district. If your 
 advertising, choose the most populated ones.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blizz_kid
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 31, 2006 12:05 am PT
Review:  But that's not to say that the story is horrible.
  
  Factions places you in the middle of a plague ravaged continent south of Tyria as a student at 
 the monastery off coast. You'll eventually learn of the plague, travel to the mainland, fight off 
 hordes of very familiar (for those of you who've played HALO) looking enemies, and so on. While 
 it all sounds good on paper, actually playing the story just leaves players wanting a little more 
 from the story... look no further than the PvP aspect of factions.
  
  Briefly reviewing the technical aspects of the game, the graphics, sound and gameplay are all great, 
 as they were in Guild Wars: Prophecies. Great looking landscapes and characters, a masterpiece 
 of a soundtrack, thanks to Jeremy Soule, and a great interface and gameplay method to round it 
 all off.
  
  Factions introduced the Assassin and the Ritualist, two new classes, which completely obliterated 
 all of the previous popular strategy in the game and forced players to come up with new ways to 
 counter these powerful new threats on the battlefield. However, it's not just two new classes that 
 were added, but new methods of fighting your enemies, namely Alliance Battles and the Fort and 
 Quarry.
  
  These great additions to PvP bring a focus to zone control, forcing you and your team of 8 or 12 
 (in Alliance Battles) to strategically capture points while fending off an onslaught from the opposing 
 faction. They're tons of fun too, as battles can get to quite a large scale and become intense 
 rather quickly.
  
  Guild Wars Factions is quite an impressive addition to the Guild Wars universe overall. New skills 
 and armors will keep you busy developing new looks and builds, and PvP will keep you busy using 
 that new armor and that new build (and probably changing it multiple times) . A great game, to put 
 it simply. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laurapce
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 13, 2006 9:19 am PT
Review:  When youre new to a multiplayer like this one, the Guild Wars world becomes a fascinating experience. 
 It offers the variety of characters that you will find in any other game like such, plus the interaction 
 with other players on the PVP or the PVE.
  There is no doubt that the Diablo collection has been the leader on the Role Playing Action games, 
 but Guild Wars has take it beyond the frontiers of massive multiplayer; combining the ability of 
 the player and the skills of the character to complete ambitious goals.
  It is not a waste of money nor time to acquire this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liquid_snake_jr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 8, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  This game has some decent graphics for its time and a diffrent storyline for a diffrent class. 
 I like the classes u get to choose and the abilites that come with them and unique weapons. Some 
 more good things are the maps and the amount of people that play it. But as like most games there 
 are downsides such as you can't meet anybody except in towns and villages and it takes quite a 
 while to load up diffrent maps depending on the map size and your internet speed. But despite a 
 few set backs this game still kicks butt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Igac89
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 30, 2006 11:48 am PT
Review:  When i first got Factions the first thing i noticed is that it has to download files sepratly, not 
 like in WOW by a patch (witch is a better solution) .
  Next there are only 20lvl's that u can reach, that is just bad WOW is also better in this department. The 
 good thing is there is no lag, at least i did not feel it, even with a 128kb/s connection. I would 
 recomend a 256kb/s connection!! Even with a dial-up connection u could play it but it will cost 
 u a lot of time and most defenetly a lot of money. There are a lot of skills and spells witch is 
 a great feature.
  The thing is if u don't have money for world of warcraft buy this game, but if u do have money for 
 WOW BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KineticSoul
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2006 7:04 am PT
Review:  The Good: A great expansion or stand alone game. This game has so many things going for it that 
 I could go on for pages. You cannot go wrong with this series of games. You can choose to play 
 the whole game without other players (using henchmen) I would call this a singleplayer mode or 
 you can play with other live players multiplayer mode.
  The Bad: N/A
  
  Gameplay:9.0
  Graphics:9.0
  Sound:9.0
  Value:9.0
  Tilt:9.0
  Singleplayer:9.0 PvE
  Multiplayer:9.0 PvP
 
  
  Conclusion: The PvP in factions is brilliant. If your a loner or into playing with other live players 
 this game has what you are looking for. I think the high quality of gameplay makes this a must 
 buy and a must have for every PC gamers collection. I would warn you though this game is addicting 
 and before you know it hours will pass quickly. There are so many professions to choose from and 
 different builds you can try.
  
  My Score:9.0 Superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilchophe
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 28, 2006 4:51 am PT
Review:  Factions is another solid chapter from the Guild Wars series and pretty much entails
  the spirit and cadence of the original. Problem?
  
  Its PVP orientated, it rushes you through 
 the starter island and shoves to the mainland
  with missions that screams GVG.
  Unfortunately a vast number of people play Guild Wars for the PvE aspect and will probably give 
 this chapter a miss. On the other hand there are benefits like an enhanced storage facility shared 
 by all your characters as well as some nifty new spells.
  
  As a fan of this series I enjoyed this game but it still doesn't have the epic feel of prophecies. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godfather_XP
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 22, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  I bought this game several days after it's release. At first the overwhelming feeling of new game 
 made me love Guild Wars more and more. But once you get through the entire game in a short time (And 
 trust me it's not as big as Prophecies) It just doesn't compare to the original. Don't get me wrong, 
 Factions is not a bad game. It does add your two new classes along with numerous new skills. And 
 new PvP content is always welcome. Also I prefer the Asian setting over the western setting of 
 the original.
  
  However what it lacks is more endgame content for the already highly addicted Gw gamer. Not to 
 mention the PvE is short in Factions, about 12 missions shorter then Prophecies.
  
  So all and all I do like the game, however I don't love this game. It's uh whats the perfect word... 
 ehhh.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alb2Mnd
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 10:29 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars: Factions began as an extremely promising adventure. I absolutely LOVED the original 
 and was enthralled to try out anet's new offering. The new professions seemed great, the assassin 
 looked very neat and the ritualist had some unique skills and gamestyles, but the further i got 
 in the game, the more I realized that the game simply wasn't as much fun as prophecies. The original 
 had a great story and above-average voice acting. But I was very surprised to find a completely 
 dull story in this one, complete with some of the WORST voice-over work in any videogame I've seen. 
 The characters' animations in the cutscenes were horrible, and some of the voices used were unintentionally 
 comical. The game's named Factions then came into play, and suddenly I gained a little more interest 
 and started to have some fun with the faction-specific quests. The Kurzicks and the Luxons, as 
 the two factions are called, have a great deal of personality and artistic design into their respective 
 home areas, but there was always a feeling that Anet never really tapped into the potential of 
 this Factions system. The Border line for example, moved a bit when one of the factions won a specific 
 battle, but it never really meant anything to the population in the game. Faction points (the game's 
 resource for some of the rare armor and other guild abilities) were gained through very uninteresting 
 missions and a few interesting battles, but quickly became another reason for farming and grinding, 
 something Anet supposedly attempted to eliminate with the franchise. The game's setting was rather 
 interesting at least. Inspired by ancient China, Anet designed an artistically beautiful world, 
 highlighted by the faction specific areas. The Kurzick forest was always atmospheric and interesting, 
 and the Luxon Jade Sea was very well implemented, with some nice shading effects to boot. The game's 
 environment is HUGE, but reaching a maximum level in a character was far too easy. One of the most 
 appealing aspects of an MMORPG is gradually leveling up as the story progresses and being thrilled 
 of finally reaching that final level after doing so many missions and grinding through the hardest 
 areas in the game. But Factions takes that aspect of an RPG away and makes it FAR too easy to reach 
 the pinnacle of the game's leveling system. There's never a chance to laugh at poor level 3 nooblets 
 in the game, because there's barely any... they all literally maxed out in the first few missions. 
 The game still has some of the problems encountered in Prophecies. A lack of a better selling system 
 leads to countless people spamming the chatbox with WTS: Flaming Butterknife of Juiciness, 50K!!!!!.... 
 it gets annoying after a while. I was also dissapointed with some of the spell effects in the game. 
 They could have placed really nice effects for some of the spells, but a meteor shower in guild 
 wars feels like some weird brown pellet crap just started falling. You would never think that a 
 meteor shower in the game was a powerful nuke from the look of it. And that's one of the few ones 
 that actually displays a special effect. Most of the spells actually don't even have animations, 
 outside of the little damage number popping out of the bad guy to tell you how much damage your 
 dull spell dished out. Perhaps the biggest problem with the game, however, is it's tendency to 
 aim its best content at the elite few who are involed in the top guilds. The secret areas with 
 the best drops are secluded to guilds with enough factions points to own a town, but that leaves 
 several hundred thousands out of the whole affair. Thankfully there are several nice guildmates 
 in the area who lend people rides to the elite areas, but there is always some douche German guild 
 that will control the town for a while and seclude the entire populace from entering the best areas 
 in the game.
  
  The game does have a quite a few strong points however. The skill system is always fun, and PvP 
 was very polished, if a bit elitist. Booting on was always very smooth and seamless; Anet's downloading 
 system is amazing: no need for patches and all that nonsense that continues to bog WoW players. 
 The game engine, while aged, still cranks out some nice graphics and detail in some areas is very 
 admirable. So it comes down to this: If you've played Guildwars Prophecies, loved it, and are involved 
 in an ACTIVE ranked guild with plenty of friends and such, you will love Factions. But for most 
 of us, people who enjoyed the original but aren't members of a top 100 guild or are simply expecting 
 a balanced pve/pvp experience like the original, don't expect the best from this title. Factions 
 takes guildwars in a pvp-heavy direction, and while many will rejoice at this, most of us will 
 agree that the original simply was a lot more polished, inspiring, and downright fun than the sequel. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M_Domier
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 7, 2006 10:34 am PT
Review:  This is the second chapter in Guild Wars. I myself like the first one a little better, but this 
 is deffinatly a good game. For the most part the game play is almost identicle to the first. Some 
 of the major differances are of course the 2 new charactors, along with the speed of which you 
 level up. In Profecies, it can take a while to reach that lvl 20 max. In factions, you can do it 
 within a few solid hours of questing. I like the fact that you can bring your profecies charactors 
 over to factions, and i like the two new charactors that are available to your party. The one thing 
 i love with these games is the fact that you can just pick it up for a short time and play. If 
 you liked the first game, then you'll like this one. If you've never played the first game, give 
 this one a shot. If you like MMO's then you should like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13th
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2006 6:34 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars: Faction is the first expansion of the excellent MMOG hybrid Guild Wars. It does not 
 require the original game to run, so new comers to the series may judge this game through its own 
 merit. Nevertheless, since this game shares a lot in common with the original, it is recommended 
 that you check out the review of Guild Wars first.
  
  New contents in Faction mainly comes from the new campaign taking place in Cantha, a continent 
 rich in Asian culture. A new evil is on the rise, and it is up to you to stop it. As generic as 
 the plot maybe, the little things that happen between start and finish can be enough to keep the 
 players going. Some interesting challenges also await the players who are patient enough to plow 
 through the campaign. One mission has debris constantly falling on the players, doing minor damage 
 and interrupting spell cast. Another mission sends in waves after waves of mobs that player will 
 need to mow down quickly and efficiently. The wide variety of missions forces the players to design 
 builds that suit each and, if they plan on soloing through most of the campaign, the right types 
 of henchmen to bring.
  
  Faction also offers new contents in PvP. For the players who insist on making role-playing characters 
 (the types that can actually quest around) , it has in store some interesting PvP battles. The Empire 
 of Dragon has two sub-clans, the Luxons and the Kurzicks. Even though they may be living under 
 the same roof, the two clans hate each other to no ends. As a result, there is a constant civil 
 war happening between the two. Near the middle of the campaign, the players are given the option 
 to follow one clan or the other. From that point on, they may participate in PvP battles all over 
 the continent.
  
  The fights are never straight-forward. Far from the standard capture-the-flag, each one of the 
 battlegrounds provide novel main goals that may or may not be different to both sides, at the same 
 time trickling in some side objectives to further complicate the deal. Fort Aspennwood is a good 
 example. in this battleground, Luxons have to eliminate a target NPC before he finishes his weapon 
 of mass destruction. They may attack the fort via two routes, both heavily guarded and sealed off 
 by a sturdy gate. To help overcome these obstacles, Luxons are provided with siege turtles - massive 
 siege weapons capable of destroying the gates with minimal effort. Kurzicks, on the other hand, 
 may choose to only defend the fort until the end. However, they are provided with alternatives. 
 They may go outside and capture a few mines. When they hand in the mineral from the mines back 
 to the key NPC, the weapon's progress receives a significant boost. Kurzicks may also choose to 
 eliminate the Luxon commander, which will be difficult. Overall, the new battlegrounds in Factions 
 are a nice diversion from the standard fares we see on Battle Isles.
  
  Although the core professions in the original Guild Wars round out the playing field well, the 
 two professions unique to Faction both have something new to bring to the table. The Ritualists 
 can be excellent healers and decent damage dealers, but their true talents come in the forms of 
 spirits, urns, and weapon spells. Spirits are immovable summoned units that can make range attack, 
 provide nearby allies with some protective bonuses, and do still weirder things. Urns, once cast, 
 replace the weapon the Ritualist is currently holding. They may provide a bonus when they are held, 
 or create some effects when they are dropped, or act as a combination of the two. Weapon spells 
 are just like enchants, with a good variety of benefits, although the fact that they are not enchantments 
 results in numerous subtle effects in fights. Many of the less interesting Ritualist spells rely 
 on the three core types of abilities. Some spells get bonus if you're standing close to a spirit, 
 if you're holding an item, or if you're under the effect of a weapon spell.
  
  Assassins are vicious melee damage dealers. Not as well protected as Warriors due to less armor, 
 Assassins survive on the battlefield through control. Teleports are among an Assassin's common 
 repertoire, useful both for making surprise attacks or running away. Assassins attack through combo 
 skills. The dagger attacks are split into main hand, offhand, and two-hand attacks. Offhand has 
 to follow and main hand, and two-hand must follow an offhand. One challenge for the Assassins is 
 to determine the most useful combo for a given situation.
  
  The things that hurt Faction the most have been plaguing Guild Wars long before. For one, while 
 henchmen may be competent, there are moments when I wish I have greater control over their actions. 
 Sometimes I may want them to attack a specific target, only to have them ignore the command. Particularly 
 frustrating is when the henchmen engage in battle without your intending to do so, and as the melee 
 chase down the enemies, they pull in more enemies in the surrounding area and wipe the group. This 
 problem may be remedied for players who go through the campaign of Nightfall (another Guild Wars 
 expansion) and got a few heroes under their wing.
  
  Similarly jarring is the lack of support for trading. A basic trading mechanism does exist, but 
 the absence of any auction house or services that provide channels allowing quick and efficient 
 communication between buyers and sellers really sucks. Players will feel the impact as they enter 
 a major city, as sales pitches of different tones and length assault their chat log. Looking from 
 the other side of the story, sellers have no option to spam sales pitch, as it is the only option 
 to draw attention to the item.
  
  The sub-par henchmen performance puts a significant dent on the appeal of PvE fights in Factions, 
 and the lack of trading systems make players stay in cities much more often than they should, but 
 despite that flaws, the game is still a beautiful package. Same good graphics from the original, 
 great architecture and character design, and excellent music make the game appealing to the senses. 
 Same game play mechanics reward strategic thinking as well as quick reaction and teamwork. A meaty 
 campaign to chew through and interesting PvP fights add to the replayability. Most importantly, 
 this title works in conjunction with the original Guild Wars, further expanding the world and adding 
 to the value of the series. This is a must have for Guild Wars fans, and a decent starting package 
 for those new to Guild Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eru_illuv
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 3, 2006 2:51 pm PT
Review:  This is probably the greatest game i have ever bought! Its a free mmorpg with tonnes of events, 
 Halloween, Christmas, etc, u just gotta love the Mad King on Halloween. The game has excellent 
 support, usually within a few hours the support team will respond to your question or problem. 
 The game has an easy to follow storyline, with an interesting way to introduce you to the mechanics, 
 that fits beautifully with the story, but i won't ruin the experience for you, i will let you decide. 
 The one problem i had with this beautifully crafted game is the music, it can be quite repetitive 
 at times, otherwise i would recommend this game to everyone! theres something for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Revelade
Rating: 1
Date: Jan 28, 2007 7:53 pm PT
Review:  If you haven't played GW yet, then you should know some things about it.
  
  You are given a choice from 8 main classes to choose from. These range from warriors to assassins 
 and can't be changed. Once chosen, you begin the game in a training ground. From here you do quests 
 and get to choose a secondary profession, which can be changed later.
  
  Quests in this game go from killing certain targets to running and talking to certain people. Talking 
 to people isn't easy. Along the way, many vicious enemies will impede your progress. Running past 
 them is difficult for most classes.
  
  Combat in this game is about engaging a group of monsters, then clicking the attack button once. 
 Then you click on spells from time to time until you've won or lost. Your level is capped at 20, 
 but you still level for skill points.
  
  Skill points are used to get new spells. To get new spells, you buy them for 1 platinum at a skill 
 merchant. Skills in this game might have one effect, but also have a drawback as well. For instance, 
 healing signet heals a lot and does not cost any mana, but you lose 40 armor while casting it.
 
  
  In the game, you can join groups of random players, or an actual guild. In a guild, you can buy 
 henchmen, merchants or other options. As a guild, you have to choose between the Luxon or the Kurzick 
 factions. These tribes battle each other for territory in the world map. The guild you join determines 
 your allegiance.
  
  In PvP mode, there's several options. You have the massive 12v12 battle, or a 4v4 random battle. 
 I believe there are guild battles as well and they are 10v10. Your PvP character is already at 
 level 20 and you can equip any item you find in PvE mode.
  
  I enjoyed GWF for what it was, a free online RPG. However, the quests were bland, combat takes 
 too long and the storyline, or rather the voices were crap. If you can handle spending hours slashing 
 at stupid AI monsters, hoping to get some item, this might be for you. I had fun, but I came to 
 a point where it's work playing.
  
  Grouping with random people can be hard. In the early parts of the game, people are more relaxed. 
 However, in harder areas, people get picky about who's in their party or not. If you don't fill 
 that specific niche, they won't let you in. Then it can take hours to find a group, or you might 
 as well go with henchies that don't whine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyosukeugc
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 31, 2006 9:12 am PT
Review:  You know alot of people who played Guild Wars and have played it for awhile didn't seem to take 
 too well to the newness and the changes that came along with Factions.
  
  Factions is a superb game despite what some skeptics might say about it. The game brings a whole 
 new light to Guild Wars along with new challenges that await those willing to take the plunge. 
 It introduces 2 new characters (the Ritualist and the Assasin) and also a whole lot of new skill 
 sets for existing characters, as it is a stand-alone game as well as na epansion.
  
  In the world of Cantha two sides are fighting against each other, but are brough together bya common 
 enemy. You get to choose which side you fight with in the game and earn points and skills for that 
 faction - I's a very interesting and new way of playing. One of the nice aspects is new elite missions 
 in which you have to party up with as many as 12 other human players to make it through a grueling, 
 tough missions with booby traps and monsters that will eat you for dinner.
  
  The factions story isn't as compelling as that of the Prophecies campaign, but ti is a good one 
 none the less.
  
  If you want to start here with Guild Wars, yu won't be disappointed and i's a great game for all 
 GW lovers already as long as they have an open mind! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dante20010
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 29, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars Factions is the second game in the Guild Wars series, and the only one I own so far. 
 I deeply enjoy this game, and I play it for hours each day. Ok, so the PvE section of the game 
 isn't as good as WoW or something, but if you want good PvP, then play Guild Wars, because there 
 are several kinds. There's a Guild Skirmish, which is basically a battle between members of the 
 same Guild or Alliance, there's Guild Battles, in which 8 members of a Guild or Alliance team up 
 to face another group of 8. Then, there's my personal favourite, the Alliance Battles, in which 
 people will join sides (either Kuzrick or Luxon) and fight the opposing alliance for control of 
 supply points.
  All in all, if you're looking for a decent PvE and a great PvP, get Guild Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AuraPheonix
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 16, 2006 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars Factions is a pretty good expansion to the first Guild Wars. I won't say its awsome, 
 because it lacks a pretty large focus in the Guild Wars world, the PVE portion. Overall, the game's 
 PVP updates make it a lot more enjoyable. With the addition of two new classes: Assassin and Ritualist, 
 the game has a lot more diversity. Assassin as you can imagine are swift killers, and Ritualist 
 summon all sorts of phantoms to aid your party in battle. With new competitive missions and more 
 PVP action, its much better.
  However, due to this, the PVE portion suffers greatly. Your character, be it Assassin, Ranger, 
 Warrior, etc. will most likely become LVL20 by the time you leave the beginner's island. This causes 
 the player to be totally uninterested in the PVE part, even though it has a lot to offer. The storyline 
 is not so absorbing than the original, so that kinda kills the feeling too. Also, the PVE part 
 is far to easy for its own good. You can easily 'hench' almost every mission in the game. So overall, 
 the game is good, but not too good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shardsofsadness
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2006 12:05 am PT
Review:  here's my review
  
  the good: -graphics, -character appearance, -class combinations, -resetable attributes (enables 
 no such thing as a crappy character unless you dislike appearance or name) , -gaming environment
 
  -supports weak computers
  -does not require time, effort, or payment to play freely
  
  the bad:
  -only 4 character slots (unless you buy regular guild wars too and then you'll get 
 2 extra character slots when you tie your game keys together, you can also buy -additional character 
 slots if ever tempted)
  -money ( not easy to make if you're a noob or just a weak gamer... don't expect others to sell 
 their crappy items for cheap either because mostly everyone is greedy)
  -people (you are bound to meet people you wish you could just kill like in lineage 2)
  
  for 
 those so trash talk about this game it's probably cause they sucked balls in pve and pvp, and they 
 make up excuses like at least i have a life or my parties always suck truth is... if you got no 
 skills you're going to suck and you will hate the game. while a pro could probably do a mission 
 with 4 people a noob would take 8 people and still get owned miserably. people in the game offer 
 suggestions all the time so just listen and you'll do fine.
  
  ---
  
  so how many hours have i played? somewhere over 1000 hours
  
  how much have i paid compared 
 to something like world of warcraft?
  the price of the game and the price of the 2nd game
  
  how many people do i know that trash talk the game cause they suck balls? too many people... 
 --
  
  final advice: play to see for yourself 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firedragonghost
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Theres not much to say about this game only that its fun at times but after awhile it is boring 
 and they didnt have enough stuff in the game to make it constantly fun. Comparing this to propechies 
 i would say it isnt as great but it is pretty close to it. I was not to impressed by the ritualist 
 but i thought the assassin was pretty fun. This game has cool landscape and tons of missions and 
 pvp arenas. It has tons of new armor and weapons and the new armor is pretty cool compared to propechies. 
 Also if u rlly spent the time playing this it would be fun but if u dont play it for that long 
 then your going to get bored of it rlly fast. One cool thing they added was ab which is rlly fun. 
 They didnt do to well on pve compared to propechies but i would say they improved pvp alittle mroe 
 but not alot. If you rlly are looking for a good mmorpg this is when you should consider getting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firedrummer
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 11, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is Wicked in everyway. The gameplay, graphics, learning curve and even the people that 
 play the game is Amazing. I can honastly say that Guild Wars DOES NOT have as much content as World 
 of Warcraft or alot of the other MMORPG, but it makes up for it in everything else. Great job to 
 the creators, keep the expansions coming :D ! I currently have a LvL 20 MM Necro and hes the best. 
 He owns. Plus the lvling is so much better than World of Warcraft, it doesnt take 4 months to hit 
 max lvl. It still takes a reasonable amount of time but not forever. Great Game Kudos to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yumi_Merrick
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 10, 2006 5:03 am PT
Review:  Continuing from the first Game (Guild Wars) Factions brings us many NEW things. First and foremost 
 TWO new Characters: The Assassin and The Ritualist. The Assassin is a speedy killing machine, there 
 just quick on the draw but takes hit like a little girl. The Ritualist on the other-hand is more 
 of an monk/necromancer character in one profession, but there quirky fighting style is stopping 
 them from being better. Some of the other thing that came our way from Cantha is a ton of NEW skills, 
 but unfortunately you have to spend money to get what you want. : ( But thats way Cantha is a goldmine 
 for some players. Anyway there's only 13 mission that looks to be better from the 23 that was in 
 the first Guild Wars. As we all know that looks can be misleading, the missions in Factions are 
 hard if you don't have a human team to play with. In the end its a fun game with tons of new and 
 fun ways play, oh before i forget this game is a STAND ALONE style game which means that you don't 
 have to have the first Guild Wars to play and thats something we all can enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Catsi
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 7, 2006 2:26 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars was a complete masterpiece of gaming software. Faction's stays true to the gaming mechanics 
 of the original while adding a great deal more content.
  The problem is, the content is rather mindless. You'll find yourself running around doing quests 
 without even reading the briefings. It's all the same. Run here, run there, kill that, pick that 
 up, bring it back, good doggie, here is 1,000exp (I wish I was kidding about the exp) .
  Quests are simply dull and if you do enough of them, you'll hit lvl20 in a day.
  No longer do 
 you get skills as you run around doing quests, like in the original, which means you're going to 
 be spending a FORTUNE on skills for your new characters.
  The story line is interesting, but as always, it's not really the focus here. In fact, you'll spend 
 a lot of time playing with areas such as Dragons Throat (let's see who can kill the most for the 
 highest record) , and playing around with the Factions that you'll forget what the story actually 
 IS.
  The Factions part in the game is rather interesting, especially as the variety between the two 
 is immense. Though some of the tattoos on the Luttons are a little scary... erk.
  I think the biggest disappointment, other than the lackluster quests, was the storage. That's right, 
 it's the SAME SIZE. Now you need to cram the stuff of 6 characters into one tiny box, when you 
 were having a hard enough time with 4. Cool eh?
  
  I think the best part of Factions was the minigame right at the beginning. Well I say minigame, 
 but it was my guild that made it a minigame. We stood around the rune trader and raced other people 
 and each other in buying runes... Not easy, not easy at all. Especially since there where so few. 
 I mean, it's just us vs several thousand people in the American servers, not hard at all.
  
  All in all, Factions brought some great new toys for players to experiment with, and some good 
 times, but as far as the quests go, it fell a little short.
  I know I've focused my attention on other games, the mindlessness having driven me away. Maybe 
 Nightfall will bring some amazing new content, maybe, we'll have to see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigE_mustang
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 4, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  If your looking for a great online experience that will keep you busy for hours without having 
 to pay a monthly fee this is a perfect game for your... me personally i have spent almost 600 hours 
 on this and the original guild wars and i am far from a expert.. this game actually has better visuals 
 than the first one.. i can only comment from the viewpoint of using this as an expansion it was 
 great but im sure if u dont have the original one this would be a good standalone as well but if 
 u get one u will have to get both of them 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pepperman33
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 4, 2006 7:06 am PT
Review:  I bought this game on its release date. I bought it after playing the first game in the series 
 which i enjoyed a lot. I think that it is very good, however a lot of drawbacks. Firstly, the graphics 
 are amaing, better than WoW, and it runs smooth too. However, the missions are either very short, 
 or long and hard, and not as good as hose in the first chapter. Thirdly, PvP could become quite 
 repetitive in the first game, but now it is much more fun, with the introduction of challeng missions, 
 alliance battles, and finnally fort raiding missions. Next, is the fact that it has no monthly 
 fee. This is much better than all other commercial MMO's. All in all, i think that it is a great 
 game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrandonLeebz
Rating: 8.2
Date: Oct 3, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  I have had Guild Wars for quite a long time now, and I decided that it would be worth the investment 
 to get Factions. Let me say that I am not sorry I made this decision. Factions not only adds new 
 character classes, adding to the excitement, but provides so much more action in a completely different 
 style than that of the original. In the first game, Tyria, everything was more conventional. You 
 pretty much see the people, and attack, sure there were the scorpions which pop out of the ground... so 
 much fun for all those who know what I am talking about. Anyways, in Factions, the version of this 
 is assasins which drop from the rooftops, adding a lot to the excitement. The music and graphics 
 once again are nothing less than thrilling and it provides a very nice way to gain lots of experience 
 points to Tyria starters when they board the ship in Lion's Arch and arrive in Cantha. ALso good 
 for strict Factions players, as they have their very own presearing island with which they start 
 off. I would highly recommend this game to anyone who wishes to have a pleasnt MMO experience, 
 without the need to purchase a subscription. The upfront 50 dollars more than pays for itself. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Not-Quite-Dumb
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 1, 2006 7:25 am PT
Review:  This new installment in the Guild Wars series has so much more to offer in the name of gameplay. 
 You now have 2 new professions to choose from, the Assassin and the Ritualist (kind of a spirit 
 summoner/ dark priest) . I started off as an Assassin and began my trek around the new continent 
 of Cantha. In the first game there was a Pre-Searing event that served as sort of a tutorial for 
 gamers. In Factions, there is a longer tutorial that can let brand new GW gamers get the feel for 
 the action. At the end of this tutorial your character will be at level 13-18. In factions, the 
 game really has you a much higher level than that of the first GW if you spent the same time playing. 
 For example, I played on my Warrior/Ranger in GW for about 4 weeks (he was my first character, 
 so factor in the learning of how to play) and he was about level 16. I played on my Assassin/Elementalist 
 for about 6 days and he was level 16. This is because the tutorial of this game is a bit longer 
 and has many more easy quests that get you more exp than those in the original GW. Though Factions 
 feature many new things, such as skills, professions, and missions, I still think it didn't live 
 all the way up to the original GW. If you have a tough time deciding which to buy first, get the 
 first GW, then make your way to Factions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spyros_P
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 29, 2006 3:42 am PT
Review:  In my opinion and I think many would agree, Factions isnt a new game, but an upgrade. The reason 
 I have opened with this thought is because I think the price for the game is way off! If you exclude 
 pricing and think of the upgrade only as an upgrade, Factions is fantastic. You get 2 new characters 
 and a bunch of new skills (plus elite skills) , new scenery, new stories, new magic! If you are 
 a Guild Wars Junky and want more, I highly recommend this game. If you are looking for something 
 new, something that will give you a different feeling, then you should try something else.
  All in all I am very satisfied with what I got (Never taking the price in to account)
  Thanks 
 for reading my review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billychanxtr33m
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Factions is the new chapter in the Guild Wars series. However, Factions isn't an expansion pack, 
 but a stand alone game. If you do own Guild Wars, feel free to combine the games and bring all 
 of your old characters to this new world.
  Gameplay- Nothing much has changed since the old game here. One big change is the 2 new classes, 
 ritualist and assassin. Also, there are some new skills for every old class thrown in for good 
 measure. The other big change is the new alliance system for the guilds. You can now have alliances 
 of 10 guilds. These alliances can ally with one of two of the factions. You can gain faction points 
 from alliance battles. Alliance battles are 10 on 10 death fests where the battle grounds get unbalanced 
 if one faction starts losing too much. When you get faction points you can spend them on materials 
 for yourself or contribute them to your alliance which may eventually give you control over towns 
 on your faction's side. This will have its own benifits.
  Graphics- Same system as the original here too, beautiful looks on low requirements. About half 
 of the world environment is a cityscape. Most of this area isn't all that great looking. It generally 
 comes across as textures pasted onto lopsided boxes. The two major areas after the city more than 
 make up for this though. The jade sea and petrified forest are truely sites to behold. Some of 
 the small edge problems and background issues will still pop up every now and then, no big issue 
 though.
  Sound- As will be standard for the GW franchise, I beleive that we can always expect a fine musical 
 display. The voice acting and effects are also pretty solid.
  Value- Still no monthly fees, and the multiplayer is even more expansive here. Really not much 
 more to say here, you should milk plenty of hours out of the title.
  Tilt- I do have a bit of a problem with factions. There is a begginer area where you learn your 
 basic skills and grow in some levels. If you take care of everything in this area, you should be 
 level 20 when you get out of the area. Lots of the quests here give almost 10x the experience as 
 quests from the original GW. You can also get max armor and weapons cheap and early. Basically, 
 there is a pacing issue here. The game just didn't flow right for me. All the area between the 
 beginner island and the faction lands seems more like a hassle than fun. Where many things you 
 did in GW were accomplishments, here they are almost force fed to you. It just made the whole game 
 feel off which was a bit upsetting for me.
  Don't let this keep you from picking up Factions though. The GW formula is shown at its finest 
 here, and you will enjoy the new adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chipn66
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2006 3:54 pm PT
Review:  and fourth between both games, you can buy an extra char slot from their on line store for$9.99 
 which will be (no software shipped) but directly added to your account. I started playing 1st Guild 
 Wars 6/7/05, for parents concerned lately there has been more swearing on line from real people 
 and even political debates dealing with everything. Factions is not as involved as the 1st G. W. 
 and you level out to max.20lv. faster. If you do not own the 1st one you will have to stay in Factions 
 but it still stands alone. It can be very addictive and time consuming but if you have the time 
 and it's night time or the weather is bad outside go for it. Its free on line use is great, both 
 games are free on line, including soon to be out in Oct., Nightfall. When you play and find dyes do 
 not sell or use them until you know there true value. Get with a mature helpful Guild if you play, they 
 can help you out a lot. P. S. I personally have never sworn on line. Play and learn as you go. You 
 never stop learning because their always adding to your game automatically. You can not realistic-ly 
 do all missions without playing w/ groups of real people but you can get to lv. 20 with out help 
 &amp; teamwork. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josoz
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 24, 2006 10:13 am PT
Review:  Well I dont really know where to start, so I guess with overall quality. The game has great  
 everything you can think of. The gameplay would be better for me, but it's kinda slow on my laptop, but 
 I dont really care cus it doesn't effect me much.. The graphics could be better, or maybe it's just 
 my computer's video card.. who knows? I dont even listen to the sound, but when I do, it's good. The 
 value is great, I mean this isn't a waste of $50.. If you think runescape is good, then get this, you'll 
 start thrashing RS. I'm an elementalist, necromancer, and the skills and possibilities you can have.. just 
 great. I would actually be able to say this is one of the top 5 best games I've EVER played..9.1 
 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nichojinx
Rating: 7.1
Date: Sep 23, 2006 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Factions gives you new armor, weapons, professions, and skills (for new and old professions) . Aswell 
 as new henchmen, faces, and hair styles.
  
  But with all this great content Anet is now missing a big picture. An that is - all of the weakpoints 
 in the first Guild Wars are just as apparent in this second addition.
  
  The story is still terrible, the voice acting is still unconvincing, and the cutscenes are as bugy 
 and glitchy as ever. An now these two worlds don't even mesh in any coheirent fashion, as the stroy 
 does little if nothing to introduce new players to Tyria and visa versa.
  
  But that isn't really why people played Guild Wars to begin with. So if you had reservations about 
 the first Guild Wars, then you'll have the same problems with this addition.
  
  However, if you can get past the bad things which make Guild Wars such a terrible RPG. Your still 
 left with one incredibley successful MMO which boasts one of the best combat engines for any game 
 of this type todate, aswell as an amazing GVG, PVP and AB (Alliance Battle) experience. Enjoy! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mydasx
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 19, 2006 10:49 am PT
Review:  Tired of WOW, need a little love w/ out the hording masses of children. Guild wars is it. Nice 
 add on worth every penny. No monthly means no guilt for being truely casual. DDO BAH! that's funny. 
 this game makes DDO look like some hack crap, plus comes in under the price. I was pleasantly surprised 
 w/ guild wars. I love the model, the community, the graphics, the game play, the stuff i can hack 
 beasts down w/ etc. 50 bucks well spent? YOU BET YOUR BUTT. Love to play solo, no prob, pick up 
 a couple minions in town and head out in the wilderness never to be bothered by campers or farmers. 
 If you are a casual solo Massive player this is the best fit ive seen in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pedro
Rating: 6.8
Date: Sep 17, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  Having played the first, there is a certain level of expectation for the sequel or next installment 
 in the series. With that said I will quickly breakdown the pluses and minuses
  
  Gameplay
  Generally speaking the gameplay is the same as the first. The gameplay is realtime 
 and not turn base. As you level up, you gain attributes points which caps out at 200 and the levelling 
 caps out at 20. The main focus of the game is attributes points which affects the intensity of 
 your spells and skills. There are 8 classes in all, Monk, Warrior, Mesmer, Necromancer, Ranger, Elementalist, Ritualist 
 and Assasin. The additional classes that being Ritualist and Assasin adds more variety to the gameplay 
 during PvE and PvP.
  
  With regards to PvE gameplay, its a step down from the original. The missions are fewer and is 
 not as interesting as the first game, couple this with horrible voice acting for Danika makes it 
 relatively painful. The missions no longer has missions as in Prophechies but you gain more XP 
 per mission depeneding on the time of completion. What makes this game painful to play at times 
 is the annoying difficulty which includes the horrible map navigation when in the city and the 
 locked gates. You can no longer enter portals freely, an active quest is required. This makes progress 
 and overall gameplay tedious and long. Navigating through the city is confusing due to the maps 
 not reflecting elevation.
  
  Graphics
  Slight downgrade in the city but besides the city the levels looks great but lacks the spunk and 
 variety as the original game.
  
  Sound
  Some of the voice acting is very bad but overall the sound is good.
  
  In the end, the game 
 felt more like a expansion than an addition and in many cases especially in PvE its a significant 
 downgrade. Levelling is fast and unsatisfying but the game still delivers fun gameplay but thats 
 soley in PvP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kh_dragon07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2006 7:22 am PT
Review:  As you guys know, Guild wars is one of the best PvP games out their. The new one brings alliance 
 battles and a whole new continent to Fight on. This game has two alliances The Kurzics and The 
 Luxons. Each guild can team up with another guild creating an allince, then they choose whether 
 they want to fight for Either the Kuz or Lux. This is a great 12 vs. 12 PvP experience, extreemly 
 fun when minion masters come into the game and just reap every body they can find. The new continent 
 add new monsters, quests, skills, armor, weapons just like a whole new game. You do not have to 
 buy the first in order to play factions. And just like the first you don't have to pay the Crappy 
 monthly fee. I've spent about 800+ hours playing this game, ITS VERY FUN. trust me this is a definit 
 buy, GREAT community, you can almost find a guild helping people out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrMC7992
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Some people just don't understand how great of a game Guild Wars: Factions is. The low level cap 
 and the instanced gameplays makes some hard-core MMOers think the game isn't worth it. The game 
 is flippin' sweet, just keep on reading to find out why. *WARNING this is a very descriptive guide, 
 it is not a short read*
  
  First of all, NO MONTHLY FEES. There is no grinding what so ever. To get to the capped level just 
 simply do the quests and missions, no need to camp a certain spot and kill the same dudes over 
 aaaaaaand over.
  
  This game is awesome because, instead of your level determining your usefulness to the team, it's 
 all about how you set up your skills. You can only have up to 8 skills out on a quest or mission 
 at a time, so think carefully. But don't worry, you can change your attributes and skills anytime 
 you are in town. Don't ever worry about ruining your character, you can switch to any build anytime 
 you are in town. This game also is very great because of the travel time. Once you have been to 
 a town, you can travel to it anytime when you are looking at your map. You don't have to worry 
 about spending 10-20 minutes just to get back to a town.
  
  The character classes are great, there are so many ways you can combine two classes. The two extra 
 classes are great too, (assassin and the ritualist) , I personally love the ritualist.
  
  A great part about the game are the missions, it's kind of revolutionary to the MMO genre. You 
 get into a group in these towns meant just for the missions. Once you start them you can't change 
 anything besides your equipment until you are done. The PVP is pretty good in GW. When you make 
 your character you can choose if you want it to be Role-playing, or PVP only. Don't worry, if you 
 want to role play and PVP you can join in arenas and battles against other role players.
  
  Guild Wars: Factions is an awesome game and to me, better than Prophecies. If you haven't picked 
 any of them up yet, you should start with Factions, if you have Prophecies, WHAT ARE YOU WAITING 
 FOR, UPGRADE! Nightfall comes out shortly and I'm looking forward to rocking that game.
  
  Peace out son. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danyjr
Rating: 7.2
Date: Sep 8, 2006 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 7
  Okay, finally this is my review about Guild Wars: Factions after playing Guild Wars (Prophecies 
 Campaign) .
  
  The Good: There are quite a few things that has been added in Factions, the guild alliances, factions. 
 There are many improvements to the PvP as well which as a hardcore PvPer I really liked. Also the 
 levelling process is faster than the original campaign which makes an even more balanced game. 
 The new professions are nice and very enjoyable in addition to the previous professions.
  
  The Bad: There are some stuff that I didn't like in Factions. First of all the lack of an Auction 
 House. Town chat channels are easily spammed nowadays by people who want to sell ingredients and 
 weapons, but Arenanet didn't do anything to solve that problem. Another thing I disliked was the 
 difficulty of quests. Unfortunately the quests are much harder to complete than the original campaign, 
 although they reward more experience but less skills (to be honest you have to buy most of the 
 skills from the skill trainers instead of achieving them by doing quests like what we had in Prophecies) . 
 Some of them are kind of impossible to do (something like Dunes of Despair bonus mission in Prophecies) .
 
  Also the new skills weren't very delicious to my taste and I prefer to use my old skills from 
 Prophecies. Although some might say otherwise.
  
  The Ugly: Voice acting; First of all, you can obviously see that the lips don't move when someone 
 (an NPC) talks. Also the actors speak without the spirit they should have in their voice. It's 
 like they are reading a text with a repetitive and highly boring voice.
  
  Graphics: 9
  The graphics are very beautiful, like the original.
  
  Sound: 9
  The music is very great. 
 Jeremy Soule has done another great job and I should've given a 10 for sound. But the horrible 
 voice acting made me give it a 9.
  
  Value: 7
  Well, not very cheap. I waited long for the price to drop from 29.99 to 17.99 (at PLAY. com) . 
 Considering you want to play it when it is released, and also planning to get other expansions 
 every six months or so... it is not a cheap game at all.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 6
  All in all, a good game, but not as good as Prophecies. If you're a die-hard Guild Wars fan, Factions 
 is a must-have, but if you enjoyed the PvE aspect of Prophecies, you won't like Factions very much. 
 For PvP, it kicks ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fart_poo_cheese
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 5, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  Game Play:
  With the addition of another continent to explore, as well as new alliance battles the "expansion" 
 adds quite a bit to the old formula. However as with the original GW, Factions is riddled with 
 some of the same issues of trying to get a party together or the occasional bad reaction to other 
 angry people.
  
  Graphics:
  This game looks amazing. Thats all there is to it. You cant argue with this fact.
  
  Sound:
 
  I enjoy the music very well in Factions, though after a wile it did get repetative. When I bought 
 the Factions music pack from Direct Song though it gave a little mix to it though, and I feel it 
 was money well spent.
  
  Value:
  Overall I'm glad I bought this "expansion" for Guild Wars. If you own the original Guild Wars and 
 enjoy the PvP aspects quite a bit then just go get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rlink0
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 27, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  OK, ill admit its a pretty good game, and if you have nothing else to do, play this. but seriously 
 consider the original over this one. but the good thing is, you can spend forever on this, and 
 only have to pay your internet bill. no monthly fees. thats the one thing this game has over || () |/|/ 
 (WoW) . otherwise, to me they look the same besides the level amount thing. in GW you reach your 
 max much quicker. compared to the original, its only shorter and provides cool extras, and i would 
 say get the original first, its cheaper and more fun. if you like that, consider a little bit getting 
 this one. but dont beat the first one and buy this, get about halfway through, then think about 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SWEAW4LIFE
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2006 6:27 pm PT
Review:  Like the first Guild Wars, Factions still sports the great mission selection and gameplay, but 
 the inability to jump and fall still hinders the game.
  
  Factions follows in core Guild Wars footsteps almost to a tee, but has faultered in some ways. 
 Rather than having a small amount of quests at a time, several dozen can be aquired at once, making 
 organization more complicated than it should be. The map still has a lack of cohesion i. e. the 
 city area leads directly into the forest and ocean areas. Also, Factions decided to provide almost 
 all quests with ridiculously high experience rewards, which level you up twice as fast than normal. 
 While you usually reach three-quarters of your maximum level before even leaving the tutorial island, 
 the mainland only has full level enemies, which will decimate you if you are alone.
  
  The good still exists though and is in full force. The Pvp has been upgraded from excellent to 
 phenominal with the addition of the new characters, skills, and 12v12 alliance battles. Also, the 
 various optional challenge missions throughout the campaign provide a fun and varied way to gain 
 the points required to unlock Pvp skills or strengthen your guild's faction. The mission variety 
 changes mission to mission provideing a sense of anticipation to your enjoyment. The best part 
 of both games is definetly the literally thousands of different skill-attribute-profession builds 
 you can make. There is always a different arrangment of skills to match each enviroment which you 
 can manipulate and re-manipulate. Also, the hundreds of "elite skills" in the game can only be 
 captured by killing the boss that holds them, providing even more initiative to explore the game. 
 Titles can also be aquired from completig various tasks. These range from Exploring the map, to 
 winning scores of Pvp matches, to the coveted Drunkard title.
  
  Overall factions is definetly worth spending time on despite its minor faults. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jokko360
Rating: 7.2
Date: Aug 24, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is still a good mmo-rpg. Though factions did not get enough changes in game-engine, just 
 skills and maps...
  
  PVE; Not good, the pve is very hard because its so big and it makes it hard to invite people to 
 your part (which is a must, because the ''henchmen'' aren't doing a great job''. Still there is 
 15k which have better looks and ... yes nothing more than a 1,5k armour. No more than lvl 20 in 
 pve still.
  
  PVP; No difference from Prophecies because Prophecies where automatically updated when Factions 
 came out.
  
  - This is a good game for the exp GW players and the beginners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Archrivel
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 24, 2006 5:56 am PT
Review:  If I'm honest, I fell in love with the game's music by Julian and Jeremy Soul, which you can get 
 at Direct song. com. The music to this game is fantastic it sets the Atmosphere well. However learning 
 from experiance of not buying a game just cause of the music or videos they have on their website. 
 So I played it carefully. I got the Original version Guild wars first, which I would recommend 
 doing. To get a better understanding of the plot. Guild wars done a fantastic job of sinking the 
 enviroment and the atmosphere around the player. When I got Factions, it blew me away. Being a 
 fan of things Oriantal, this expansion had great appeal for me and having waited to finish the 
 story in Guild wars before I got the expansion made it even more worth while. On the 2nd day of 
 playing this, my Hard drive crashed and while the computer was at the shop getting repaired, I 
 suffered withdraw symptoms. I got into the storyline and I had to get back in to find out what 
 happens. Perhaps not as compelling story as Guild wars as Greg rightly says. However it still does 
 a great job of not wanting to put that book down, so to speak.
  
  Factions has a lot of hours of game play inside of it with the battle between the Luxons and Kurzicks. 
 This war between the two sides has brought a sense of purpose to Guild wars in regards to the pvp 
 side of the game.
  
  It's nice to see, the development team know their Chinese from their Japanese as for once this 
 is a game that hasn't confused their korean with Chinese in game. Such as Silk Road online. If 
 your fortunate to be able to read read Japanese etc, then you will be able to enjoy some of the 
 more funny sides of the decoration. The shop immedatly out of Market town has "Am Fah Resturant" 
 players of the game will know why that is funny.
  
  Factions is the first time where I've seen a couple of bugs inside the game. Like Monsters sticking 
 and the same AI problem that was in the original which stops this game from being a perfect 10. 
 The Learning curve for me was 5 minutes because I been playing Guild wars. For anyone that has 
 played MMOG before i be surprised if it took you more than 15 mins to pick up the most basic of 
 things.
  
  This game is simply superb and I can see why it has been no.1 in the x fire charts for 6 months 
 and more.
  
  and for only 17.99 one time payment compared to the $14.45 p/ month or $45.45 p/ 3 months. The 
 only people that would bulk at that is more likly the people that have no concept of money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zoldaire
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 22, 2006 7:42 am PT
Review:  Ok so I've played both Guild Wars and Guild Wars Factions and I can say that the story line of 
 both are very impressive. I know some people have said that GW lacks the graffic that most games 
 these days offer, like WoW, but remember that GW was being produced in the shadows as everyone 
 was anticipating for WoW and other massive MMORPGs that were highly advertised. Taking note this 
 and that GW has no monthly fee, which makes it a very good game for students and people who don't 
 own a creditcard, it's graffic values are good.
  
  The two new classes, Assassin and Ritualist, are both very good adds to the world of GW, and the 
 new story if very catchy. The very good part is that they added a new full melee character to the 
 game what the original GW lacked, since only 1 of the 6 classes were melee based. Though the assassin 
 doesn't have as much armor as warrior but he does have some nice combo moves. Ritualist on the 
 other hand is a partly monk, partly elementalist. Seeing as the ritualist is both elementalist 
 and monk, his skills are divided in between them. Mostly ritualist is just a monk with spirit summons 
 and less healing spells but it is still a whole different class.
  
  Overall, Guild Wars Factions is a worth while buy for any MMORPG fans that don't really look for 
 cutting edge graphics. As for myself, I really like GW and it's story. The classes have many skills 
 and many elite skills, which make building a character very interesting and a challenge really 
 to build the "perfect" build. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoubleX98
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 21, 2006 6:13 am PT
Review:  this is the 2nd game of the guild wars campaign. it adds 2 professions. the asasaain (like a ninja) 
 and a ritualist (you create spirits to help you out) . these to professions are both very fun to 
 play. it also adds to character slots so now you have 6 of them! Which is very nice. but i think 
 the fist campagin is better. this is because in factions you lvl up very very fast. also it is 
 ALOT harder. some missions and quests seem impossible leaving you frustrated. but the good thing 
 is now you can take you prphicicies chararcter to the factions campagin and vice versa. so if you 
 have 50 bucks go buy this game its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Juro4dark
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 19, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  i had a great experience with this game even though i hadn't had it for a long enough period of 
 time to call myself an expert i can still say that this was worth all the time i played and more 
 if i could... this game i'd have to say was amazing, it had awesome graphics, gameplay, and overall 
 this game was satisfying and a game i can play for hours straight... i highly recommend this game 
 to many others who are interested in this kind of gameplay and are fond of beautiful graphics, 
 i also took much interest in creating a character. It just made the game that much more amusing... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simoleon2078
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 17, 2006 2:39 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars was very apealing with the graphics that sleek animations and infamous pvp combat. So 
 I bought the game Made my Character and then was immediatly struck with the long.... useless - (I 
 bet i could have learned alot more in that time than following the crappy dialogue) -.... life sucking.... waste 
 of time that is the tutorial, yeah you can skip it but you also gain experience some items along 
 the way, and if your reading this and your lvl 20 (lvl cap for new people) sure your hardcore GW 
 player you dont care about the beggining of the game that arena net made that repells new players 
 then i'm sure your very happy with yourself.
  
  So you've done the tutorial and found out to use your skills you engage on your ongoing quest you 
 find the rest of the players doing there thing dancing, buying selling etc etc. You then leave 
 the monastary and are all alone again, you then find out you can only play with other people in 
 your party if you dont have other players you use the computer.... great substitute for a MMORPG...
 
  
  So near the end of this review i will talk about the great stuff, the PvP is great it plays well 
 but becomes annoyingly repetitive if you dont do it with premade group that works together. Graphics 
 are an ok feature but becomes unnoticable after a while.
  
  To end i guess most of the things that made GW boring is the limit to the game and the lack of 
 depth from the objectives and yes it does not have monthly fees but if i had to pay just a mere 
 8.99 like World of warcraft to geta better game that would last longer than it would if i didn't 
 pay then i deffinatlely would.
  
  I mean runescape is alot less advanced but you can do a hell of alot more than in GW, especially 
 WoW.... WoW now has nearly everything GW has besides the super model look (though the night elf 
 females are really sexy) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PyreofKoL
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 16, 2006 9:23 pm PT
Review:  I was a little skeptical at first, but that attitude disappeared by the time I hit the fourth mission. 
 Even at the lower levels this game is quite challenging. The graphics are superb, and the controls 
 were easy to use and simple to figure out. The background music was a little bit obnoxious, but 
 good nonetheless. The actual gameplay is beautifuly animated and the skills are very diverse and 
 fun to mix and match I can't really find anything bad to say about his game. Those of you who are 
 new to MMORPG's should give this game a try. I can promise you that you'll be hooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PR3D4TOR2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 16, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  This is really great exp. pack it has whole new island and on that island you can find missions 
 that have good story plus many quest all over the island, if you liked the 1st part of guild wars 
 you will like this one too. It's based on japanese culture well kinda ;) The biggest plus to the 
 game is no MONTHLY FEE'S what is very aweseome for online game like this... I love to play it when 
 i have time.
  Anyway if you love WoW or any other morpg you must see this it's really worth of your time.
  
 
  I would suggest you to play this if you havent done yet!
  
  The game isnt so hard if you have proper group n stuff ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KhAmSa
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 15, 2006 1:00 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are so amazing that you feel your in Cantha for real
  
 
  Gameplay: Well its upto level 20 but its called GUILD WARS you have to get out there, build your 
 character and get join or form a guild to start battling. Although after you reach level 20 Missions 
 are replayable and quests well you'll have to find someone doing the quest so that you can do it 
 with him.
  
  Value: You only need to buy the game for once and thats it, No monthly charges like other games. 
 The other good thing is that Guild Wars Factions is a Stand-Alone game which means you dont need 
 the original Guild Wars to play this one although if you have the original one you can travel through 
 both cities and even trasfer yor old characters.
  
  Sound: Very nice Music which keeps you IN THE GAME.
  
  Overall: This game is what i've been 
 looking for, for a very long time. I tried other MMORPG (Massive Multiplayer Online Role Playing 
 Game) but each of them has to have fee's included. The graphics are awesome and the gamplay is 
 great. Go for it specially if your a beginner in the MMORPG world because you dont want to play 
 around worrying about fees.
  
  WARNING! LIMIT YOUR TIME IN PLAYING BECAUSE ITS GOING TO GET YOU ADDICTED LIKE ME. :)
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkMexican8004
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 14, 2006 8:10 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game i didnt really mean to be something that i would want to play daily just something 
 to keep me busy. I was wrong guild wars factions is a great MMORPG. I have been haveing so much 
 fun since i got it three months ago. There really hasnt been a day that i havent played it. its 
 a great game with decent graphics and you can run it on a low end pc. gameplay is nice to although 
 you might lag. non the less guild wars is a great game and i wouldnt be surprised if i was to reserve 
 nightfall ;) . 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: highflyer800
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 16, 2006 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Guildwars factions is guild wars first expanision and is a great one at that. Guildwars faction 
 story is total different to the first guildwars but you see some of the henchmen that you were 
 able to control in the first game. The first great thing about this is u dont need the first guildwars 
 to play it so you could buy this then buy the first one later but make sure u add the game key 
 to your account if u have one to get all the skills and travel between the first game and the expansion.
 
  
  You can also own both games you unlock a large amount of new skills to add to the old ones. If 
 you start factions using your character from the first game you start with in the city facing level 
 20s from the start but it also give you lets you get some of the better skills and weapons. The 
 city is very big taken up nealry all of the map. it actully feels like a real place with allyways 
 and soon. It also has an asian feel to it which is a nice change to the first guildwars locations. 
 
  
  if you start with a brand new person u be taking to a monstery which unlike where you start in 
 the first game actully has some hard monsters and quests if you want to start with one of the new 
 professions then you have to start from the beginning. you also be able to go back there at any 
 time
  
  There are also 2 new profession which are the assassin and ritualist to added to 6 profession from 
 the first one. The ritulist is a kind of necromancer that does'nt use body to make monsters like 
 the ranger he make spirits to aid them in battle while the assassin uses speed and can appear in 
 front of an enemy using a skill. Using these new professions with the olds can create new builds 
 for your character. 
  
  The only let down is the fact that theres only 2 new profession. It would have been nice to have 
 some more but this is the only letdown. The game in some way is better then the first one. If you 
 buy this you won't put it down for weeks.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: halofreak3487
Rating: 6.6
Date: Aug 11, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  The first Guild Wars was awesome, no monthly fee, the world was big, 20 lvls to gain, and basic 
 classes to choose from. Ok so Guild Wars Factions now gives a bigger world 2 new classes and some 
 other stuff, theres not a lvl cap increase or anything, which did dissapoint me a lot. Dispite 
 the fact that their is a whole other world... whats the point of playing if you can't gain any more 
 lvls? just sounds kind of pointless to play, however GW is meant for casual gamers that don't really 
 have to much time. The gameplay in GW: Factions is still the same just two new classes Assassins 
 and Ritualists, the sound is 'bout the same. There is a twist to the game that Kantha features, 
 Asian style buildings... didn't really like it. 
  
  Overall i wasn't imppressed, new weapons classes, and world... but if you can't level up, and you 
 don't really earn anything from Pvping, than i wouldn't go for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sabertooth99
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 9, 2006 3:40 am PT
Review:  THe game is super cool , i have dowloaded all of theese videos and imagies and those who like this 
 tipe of games this game is the "bomb" 4 them . PLay then you'l see how cool is this game . THis 
 game i think that it is more beautiful then Final Fantasy the grafic is more realistic and the 
 sounds are very realistic it looks like those who speak to you are beside you. I play this game 
 night and day but i never get bored of it like other games ,this game captivates your eyes and 
 your ears . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSXSayian
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 7, 2006 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Here are the goods and the bads and the in betweens
  
  Goods: Once again the graphcis are just amazing. Extensive Gameplay. Gives you 2 new character 
 slots. Easy money. 
  
  In-betweens. Easy experience to get but it may be bad for you if you were looking for a challenge. 
 
  
  Bads: The 2 new professions were not a great asset of this game. Assassin is a re-creation of the 
 warrior and the ritualist is a recreation of the monk except with spirits. The quests and missions 
 can be long and frustrating so dont just log on to the game for 5 minutes. You won't be able to 
 do anything. The story can be a little repetive of the old one.
  
  Even though i gave more bads then goods it can still be a good game. But the Question is. DO you 
 wanna spend 60 bucks on this game? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chimpson6
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 7, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me say this: If you played and enjoyed Guild Wars, this game is a must have. It 
 is has more challenging quests and missions than the previous game, and Faction points and alliance 
 battles add an extremely enjoyable re-play aspect to the game. This game also adds two new professions, 
 the Assassin, and the Ritualists. Also this game is not an expansion pack, you can just buy it 
 as a stand alone, without owning the original Guild wars.
  
  Gameplay- The way the game plays can take little getting used to, but once you get it, it will 
 become secondhand. Moving and attacking is simple, move with the standard WASD or Arrow keys, or 
 by just clicking on the screen. Attacking is just as easy, click on the enemy, and then have at 
 it with spells or revved up adrenalin attacks. 
  The multiple professions that allow you to mix and match them add a nice replay value to the game. 
 Just like in the previous game, you choose one main profession, and one secondary, the classes 
 are: Warrior, Elementalist, Necromancer, Mesmer, Ranger, Assassin, Monk, and Ritualist. And any 
 of these combinations make a unique game experience.
  This game adds a whole new continent to explore, Cantha. The Asian themed word is made of three 
 different areas. The City on the northern third of the map is filled with flourishing citys, underground 
 sewers, Slums, Temples, and various ocean ports. Then there is the Jade sea, the Luxon's (one of 
 the factions) are in controll of this region, and command a legion of warriors and huge War Turtles. 
 They use this army agianst the Kuzicks, who own the Petrified Forest. This dead gothic themed forest 
 is home to ancient statues carved out of the petrifed trees and deep within them the Kurzicks transform 
 their elite soldiers into giant Juggernaut warriors to fight agianst their sworn enemies, the Luxons.
 
  
  Story- You start as a young recruit in the Shing Jea monastery, when a terrible disease strikes 
 the land. It turns ordinary people and animals into mutated monsters, filled with the plague spreading 
 through Cantha. So, you must travel to the mainland to find the source of this disease, and to 
 stop and ancient evil thats come back to life. 
  In addition to the story missions, there are, of course, many, many, quests to complete, and for 
 those of you that completed the first game, I think you'll find these quest giving you more reward 
 than you're used to.
  
  Graphics- The graphics in this game are great, not cartoony like WOW, but more realistic with great 
 water animation, and a constantly changing landscape, this game makes you want to stop and take 
 a screenshot every now and then. 
  The only thing that is disappointing, however, is the cinematics, they're done well, but I think 
 they could be done better with actual cut scenes instead of taking in game models and moving them. 
 It's really not that big of a deal, just something I think they should improve on.
  
  All in all, If you're into MMORPG's this something you should deffinatly play, and plus, this one 
 of the few MMO's that has NO MONTHLY FEE. It has an imersfull story and the game play is easy to 
 get, and fun to play with. Also, the game world is filled with people, this isn't one of those 
 "empty MMO's" its filled with millions of people and hundreds of fun guilds and allancies to join. 
 Not to mention the the great PVP this game has. So if you've been thinking about getting this game, 
 I'd suggest you do. See you in Cantha. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fxdm
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 7, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars: Factions adds a lot of cool things to the Guild Wars world, but many of it was meant 
 for people who already owned Guild Wars: Prophecies. For people buying it as a stand-alone game, 
 they will be rushed into the game without taking the time to get used to their character and his/her 
 abilities. However, for players who already own the original Guild Wars, this game will be a very 
 useful expansion. In it there are newer missions with diverse objectives, new PvP arenas such as 
 Alliance Battles, and an entirely new way of gameplay, where a war between two factions (the Luxon 
 and Kurzick) can change the entire map, allowing members of each faction to invade their opponent's 
 lands. While this game does add onto Guild War's already oustanding gameplay, many of the new features 
 only appeal to the players who have played and beaten the original Guild Wars. Also, this expansion 
 still includes free-online play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaeryn
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 3, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Now, I've been playing this game for a while now, and I can say it's a good game. Now, I'll make 
 this review short and make it easier for the readers. The sound is good, value is good, graphics 
 are great, but the gameplay somehow lacks. Now, it's cool to cast many spells on enemies and watch 
 all the effects, and it's a fun game. But what it lacks is the mmorpg feeling. The game feels like 
 it has no level system with the level 20 cap, to be honest. There is no real change when getting 
 new armor either. It kind of lacks that part of customization. To say it simply, it's a good game, 
 but it's not really an mmorpg. If you want to try an mmorpg with an extreme twist, try this game 
 out. If you want another game like WoW, look for something else, or just stay with the already 
 great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon247uk
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 21, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  The first impression about guild wars i recieved was that it was rubbish, people mocked it and 
 kept on comparing it to WoW, saying that ArenaNet was jumping on the wagon copying off it. Then 
 finally the fatefull day came on March 24th when I finally got to see what gw was really about. 
 And I can tell you this... IT WAS FANTASTIC! With giant worlds that take ages to explore to defeating 
 entire armies of beasts, Guild Wars became a centerpoint of my life, me not being happy if I dont 
 get a good 3 hours of Guild Wars in a day. Then the expansion came.
  
  Factions is set just to the south of Tyria in the oriental inspired world of Cantha. Unlike its 
 predecessor, Factions does not have a pre-searing and post-searing style of gameplay. You are involved 
 right in the action helping to destroy the abomination that is Shiro Tagachi and his ever growing 
 army of the afflicted. You are able to choose from a total of 8 professions, each with its own 
 weaknesses and strengths. Warrior, Mesmer, Monk, Necromancer, Ranger, Elementalist, Ritualist and 
 Assasins are all there for you to explore, each containing over 100 skills for you to learn and 
 master. All players of factions start off in the legendary Shing Jea Monastery, the Ascalon of 
 Cantha. Here you will enroll as a unique student of your profession, gradually building up your 
 level and set of skills. To gather skills and experience, you have to start and finish quests and 
 errands. These quests will provide you with the neccesary knowledge to progress further in the 
 game and to build up you library of skills. As well as the 'Quests' you may or may not choose to 
 complete, there are compulsory core missions. These you have to complete in order to progress further 
 in your specialist profession. The style of gameplay in factions is different as well. Instead 
 of only gaining 500xp per mission like you do in Tyria, you are able to gain up to 5000xp in Cantha. 
 These xp bonuses will greatly help your character level up and to challenge more powerfull enemies. 
 But dont worry, you arent on your own. You can take up to 3 henchmen with you in Shing Jea Monastery 
 and up to 8 henchmen in places like the Luxon controlled Cavalon. These players are NPC's (non 
 playable characters) and dont venture off into the wilderness without you, they follow you and 
 attack on your command. Or if you prefer a lively audience, you can join a party of other players, 
 all of which will benefit you more that henchmen do in the field of battle. But of course, Guild 
 Wars isnt just about cutting down your opponents for money, you can choose to start your own guild 
 for as little as 200g, 2200g if you want a cape. Guilds are regulary in combat with each other, 
 each battling for their place on the guild ladder and for eternal glory in the hall of heroes. 
 If you prefer to create your own guild, you will need to see a guild emblemer and a guild regestrar 
 in order to make it official. Inside guilds you can invite your closest friends to join you are 
 to create an alliance with neighbouring guilds. This also allows you to ally yourself with one 
 of the two dominant factions in Cantha, Luxon or Kurzick (personally i prefer luxon) but anyway. 
 It is upto you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polishhoodie
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 31, 2006 12:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is a follow up to guild wars which is a great game. I dont have the origional guild wars 
 only factions. The origional guild wars i hear is a lot better then factions alone. Factions has 
 better pvp then the origional but is a shorter game in general with less quests to do. The new 
 mission types are not much different. As for storyline it is very pitiful. I could never get into 
 the storyline and it seems to just slow the game down. Also the cutscenes have terrible graphics 
 and terrible voiceovers. But this is still a great game. This game has a short learning curve and 
 is a great rpg for beginners and cheapskapes. Definitly get wow if your willing to pay. But overall 
 this is a great and addicting mmorpg. If you have the origional dont bother buying the new one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zappa02
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 28, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  This is the same thing about put down with the other guild wars This game is worth the meony becase 
 its free and it fun to play it and the games difficulty is just right. An the learning curve take 
 about 0 to 30 minutes and the classification rocks!! you need to go out and buy this game, with 
 you
  can. The graphics were just amzaing I thick they did a good job on the graphics. the sound was 
 just great too. And this online game do not have in mouthly fees that the great part about this 
 game it a free online game and that
  just rocks and kicks a@#. And the great part about this game is the level stops at 20 so you do 
 not have to way level and level and wasnt your live on this game.
  
  
  This game is worth it go out and buy one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ssouljah
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 27, 2006 2:09 pm PT
Review:  So you Play WoW you Played Everquest... and you were Addicted to FFXI... whats the next drain on 
 your wallet? Lets see you can spend 15-30 bucks a month on those games or you can get the same 
 gameplay without the monthly fee w00t... So I gave Guild Wars a chance and Bought Factions... And 
 I have to say I love it... The game allows you to freely roam the land by yourself with no real 
 problems you draft your lil group of Students and head out... Weither you like Parting it up with 
 other pc or get a whole team of NPC to do your biding this game works for whichever player you 
 are and thats my biggest passion for it... And theres the PVP arenas so you can whoop on some lil 
 12 year old punk.. Who thinks he's god of the video game word... Buy it you won't be let down... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heatseeker32
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 27, 2006 12:38 pm PT
Review:  I've never been a fan on online RPG's however the first Guild Wars really caught my attention. 
 Playing that for just under a year, I've learned to love the playability and casual nature of Guild 
 Wars and now Guild Wars Factions. It's a very good, easy to pick up and play game for people who 
 don't have time to sit around for 10+ hours to level up, and despite the complaints about the level 
 cap, it's allows for a more balanced and equal gameplay experience in the higher levels. I find 
 leveling in Factions very fast, however the good points like same armor different styles and the 
 whole new atmosphere is very very appealing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tusa04
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 24, 2006 2:53 am PT
Review:  MMOs is a rich experience that a player will continually invest in over a period of time. The biggest 
 problem with MMOs is the steep monthly payments. Considering the monthly investment, regular upkeep 
 of your account is required or it'll be a waste of time and money. The charm with any Guild War 
 title is the absence of monthly fees and knowing that in the event that you do decide to take a 
 break from the game, your account should still be available. All that's needed is a good internet 
 service (Dial up beware!) , a decent video and sound card, enough memory, the game and an enthusiasm 
 to play and you're all set. While not as detailed as some of the other MMOs out there, Guild War 
 Factions provides a solid gameplay with great features that can even parallel some of the more 
 known online RPGs. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lordsardonic
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 22, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars: Factions
  
  Well this game is very much worth its money but it still has some really big downfalls if you as 
 me, for example you level up so much faster then you did in "Guild Wars" you get lots more XP for 
 missions now its kind of stupid how much you get, but the new heroes, make it cool, like the Assassin 
 which Im playing with at the moment, fast quick and well just plan deadly. the sound in the game 
 is a lot better then in "Guild Wars" if you as me then there are the Graphics, no really improvement 
 here but it still looks cool, the new world is a lot more feel to it, then there is the gameplay 
 personally I thought it was better, and a lot easer to get into then the first one. So worth buying 
 but dont expect to much from it, dont think its going to be like Wow with a in depth world you 
 can do what you want, this is free remember
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colin101
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 21, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Guild WARS its a bit to easy !! i mean yh it has gd action kl graphics BUT whats up with there 
 mouths they dont move !! sooooo there is gd scripd
  yes BUT there mouths dont move come on anyway lets talk about the quest
  TO EASY u realy go up 
 lvs to quick if ur on 2 or 3 days a week like me i got to lv 20 at day 8 !! im sure i could have 
 gone up more if i pushed my self but i saw how quick i was going up lvs so i slowed down (looking 
 at the scenery to much lol) but i would say to u go get it if u dont have it, plus nightfall looks 
 gd !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rong626
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 20, 2006 12:35 am PT
Review:  GuildWars Factions is far more better than the original verison. The 2 new professions are The assians 
 and the ritlist which will not disappointed you.
  
  My two character slots i'll recieve are saved for a Paragoon and a Dervish... I always liked spears... 
 Now they give us two spear fighters for the price of one. Groovy. 
  A few things that ANet could have done better with Factions I hope to see in Nightfall -
  
 
  ~ Combining Prophecies + Factions meant you only gained 2 new character slots, not the 4 you paid 
 for with your purchase of Factions. Nightfall should allow you to retain all character slots purchased 
 rather than punish players for joining accounts.
  
  ~ As above, joined accounts gained zero increase to bank / storage space -- so what was already 
 far too little storage for 4 characters became another way that players were punished by combining 
 accounts. With Nightfall, they seriously need to increase storage space for combined accounts.
 
  
  ~ The Prophecies system for questing for new skills was far superior to simply making them a money 
 sink in Factions. Players are forced into ( and rewarded by ) farming simply to gain abilities, 
 rather than playing through content. Keeping skill gain easy for PvP is all fine and good, but 
 it would have been nice to at least have the OPTION to quest for them rather than do away with 
 the system completely just to please the insta-PvP players. Nightfall needs to include a meaningful 
 side-quest system the way it was in Prophecies. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Itachi-Uchi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 19, 2006 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars Factions is the "stand-alone" add-on to the hit MMORPG of 2005, Guild Wars. Meaning, 
 you won't need to have the original Guild Wars to play it. Though, if you do own the original game 
 you can link them to travel between the continents of Tyria and Cantha. 
  Guild Wars Factions gameplay is close to what the orginal had, yet slightly different. The PvE 
 (player vs. enviroment) is very fun but, not as long, and cooperative missions and story aren't 
 as engrossing as the original. If you played the original then you know right-off-the-bat how to 
 get down with the skills, armor, builds, etc. If you're a newcomer, looking for a good (free) online 
 game, then GWF will take some getting used to. Saying that shouldn't make you stray away from it, 
 because learning the mechanics of the game will take you 30 minutes, at most. After all the simple 
 mechanics are learned you can pick up and go mission after mission; quest after quest. Another 
 big part of Guild Wars (the original) was the PvP. With GWF, there is a slew of new PvP offered. 
 The biggest of them is the Alliance Battles. These PvP matches are 12v12 fights of 3 teams of 4 
 players fighting it out and capturing posts to win the game. Winning an Alliance Battle (AB) will 
 get you faction points added to which ever faction you have chosen, wheter it be Luxon or Kurzrick. 
 
  The visuals of Guild Wars was always a big plus in the MMORPG world, because it surpasses most 
 in the category. Guild Wars Factiosn uses all the same graphics to support it, and even with these 
 great graphics, a "high-end" PC is not neccasary (though better PCs will get throught load times 
 faster than others) . 
  For those that did play the original Guild Wars may be dissapointed that they'll have to buy a 
 whole other [$50] game, when they already spent $50 on the first one. Though all the content and 
 no monthly fee does make this buy worth every dollar. 
  In the end, Guild Wars Factions delivers with a ton of content, extensive customization, and more. 
 This is a definate buy for RPG enthusiasts or just someone looking for a good PC game to play. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Valkyrie_44
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 19, 2006 2:39 pm PT
Review:  With the original I had a love it, hate it relationship with this game, just due to the fact once 
 beaten there was no where else to go, except multiplayer, and that can become frustrating back 
 in the day.
  
  With Factions some things were changed, for one you get two new classes, the Assasin and the Ritualist. 
 Each offers something new to the table the Ritualist is a caster type with spells similar to the 
 Mesmer, but more spirits are used like the Ranger. The Assasin, is a hit and run character, with 
 combo capabilities. Both character in their own way blend seamlessly into the original cast of 
 selectable classes, and actually end up useful. 
  
  The storyline isn't as lengthy or robust, but you get alot of beautiful explorable areas, and alot 
 more creatures to battle. The characters even get a few new abilities, and treasures to look for.
 
  
  Another big change is in the multiplayer, it is alittle easier to get into, just make sure you 
 work with your team, the game is based on a teamwork aspect, so expect doing about the same thing 
 in single player as you do in multiplayer. Overall I felt the multiplayer component is improved 
 along with the guild halls.
  
  Graphically this game is nice, on a slow machine this game will run quite stable, it will also shine 
 on a high end machine, and look incrediable especially with distance views.
  
  Sound, and cut scenes all in one are not its strong point, as like the first chapter there is no 
 lip movement in the cutscenes, but yet there is audible voices. I am going to be a little picky 
 on the movement, and battle noises. In these instances all the sounds are seemingly recycled, all 
 are cling, clang, so on a so forth, more 3D audio support would be nice.
  
  Another negative, is the fact where it feels as if you are stuck on a course even in the free roaming 
 areas. There is no jump or falling capabilities which I feel would really help accentuate this 
 title even more. 
  
  Good Game still not a level grinder in my opinion, overall a great game with a few minor cosmetic 
 flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neverness
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 18, 2006 4:44 pm PT
Review:  I ardently avoided online games for years mostly because I intensely dislike the idea of having 
 to pay a monthly fee on top of the purchase price for the privilege of being able to play something 
 I already bought. Maybe I am old-fashioned but in my day when you bought a politician, that SOB 
 stayed bought! Still, I kept seeing the MMORPGs in magazines so I finally decided to see what all 
 the hubbub was about. I mostly chose Guild Wars because it has no monthly fee.
  
  With that long-winded introduction out of the way, I'll say that my initial feelings were mixed. 
 The game did look nice and ran very well on my system and I never experienced any crashes and only 
 had a single minor glitch that forced me to log off when my character got stuck in one place and 
 could not move. The controls were also easy to learn and the initial missions did a good job of 
 introducing you to the mechanics. 
  
  Character advancement is pretty rapid but stagnates after you cap at level 20 -- your character 
 maxes out ability wise and you have to hunt down rare items to boost your character and that farming 
 is extremely tedious and time consuming. For kids (i. e. teenagers) or people with loads of time 
 on their hands, this kind of game experience is probably appealing. When you character struts around 
 in the fancy armor and whatnot, it's the digital equivalent of bling-bling so people who enjoy 
 bragging and showing off their stuff will probably really dig this. However, this investment of 
 time comes at a price to a more casual gamer. You really do need to play this game a lot to progress 
 and someone who only plays a little bit here and there will not feel that they are accomplishing 
 much. 
  
  Gold acquisition is also very slow. Most worthwhile items cost exorbitant sums and the free market 
 economy means that there are no real guidelines for price when buying or selling to other players 
 -- so your personal knowledge of the game world and morality will be your guide here for player-to-player 
 transactions. You really have to kill critters, sell loot, kill critters, sell loot... for hours 
 to make significant gold. Either that, or get those lucky black dye drops. There is also game gold 
 you can purchase (with real money from your wallet) from third parties should you choose that route. 
 I will say no more on gold farmers as the 'net is quite replete with pro and con discussions on 
 such practices.
  
  The story to the game is interesting but very slow paced (or maybe I just suck at the game so it 
 seemed slow to me) . The Asian backdrop annoyed me a little because it is somewhat alien to my expectations 
 but that is a personal preference. 
  
  For a loner like me, this game might just not be my cup of tea. I did join a guild with some status 
 and played some big battles, hooked up with random people for quests, and help out noobs who were 
 wet behind the ears. Even after all that, I still prefer to go solo with some henchmen, which I 
 suppose is counterintuitive to the whole genre.
  
  The game really seemed to suffer from "alone in the crowd" syndrome. Sure, there are lots of players 
 all running around in the cities, but it seemed disjointed to me. There is no common area to find 
 a party, ways to leave notes to other players, decent message boards, or ways to sell items to 
 other players other than standing on the corner hollering "Wts gold items, cheap prices! Meet me 
 at storage" or the like. 
  
  Overall, I really enjoyed this game for several weeks, but my attention began to roam and now I 
 play very rarely and do not want to start over as another class. The game seems almost frozen in 
 time; your actions do not cause much change (unless your guild is powerful and you can push the 
 opposing faction back) and the game world is always the same irregardless. Critters are always 
 in the same spots, vendors are always in the same spots. etc. I am used to the fact that after 
 I hack somebody apart, they stay dead. The necessary respawning nature of an MMORPG denies me this 
 satisfaction and makes me feel insignificant. Still, millions of people love this type of game, 
 I'm just not one of them ;P
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyrolepricon
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 17, 2006 2:17 am PT
Review:  i have never played the first guild wars game, and factions is the first MMORPG ive ever played. 
 this game really impressed me
  
  when u start to make a charicter you reilize that your choices are... limited. but once you get 
 going you reilize there are infonant ways to modifye the appearence
  
  the class system works wonderfully, and in a good group you can really feel your class, but some 
 classes are liked better than others. monks and tanks and often chosen over all of the others, 
 and if you arnt one of those two, you can get frusterated
  
  and thats a shame because the other professions (such as mesmer) are the most fun
  
  the graphics 
 are awsome, even if the fasces of everyone dont move
  
  all in all this game is addictive and extremely fun
  
  so buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wisecrack57
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 16, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars Factions is the follow up to the fantastic MMORPG, Guild Wars. In Guild Wars: Factions, 
 there is a whole continent for you to explore, and the game will have you exploring it's many secrets 
 for hours to come. Graphics in this game are great, they sometimes get a little glitchy, which 
 then you have to log off for like, an hour or two, but then they are back on smooth. The gameplay, 
 in this game, is considerably easier and more rewarding then the first GW. The rewards are much 
 bigger. For such mundane things as talking to someone, you'll get like 5,000 xp. So leveling in 
 this game is not hard at all. The PvP (Player vs. Player) factor in this game is awesome. They've 
 add some much more to the pvp aspect, that it will keep you playing for a long time coming.
  
  So I say that this is a great game, and definatly worth buying.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SasukevsLuffy
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars was a very fun game, and it was a new system of mmorpg, with free online play, and a 
 mission system. When Factions came out, i Went to buy it. I thought, this is gonna be a bit worse 
 than Prophecies, because prophs had an amazing storyline. When i started, i made an assasin, and 
 i was immediately set up in an asian themed world. The story has mysteries in it, and it makes 
 the game very immersive. 
  Though the level cap is very low, it could take you up to 70 or more to get to it, unlike other 
 games like Lineage 2. 
  The people in the game are very nice, i have become friends with other players, helping them, then 
 them helping me.
  The story line is very long, ive spent around 70 hours on my assasin, and havent even got to the 
 3rd story mission. Now that is what you call long.
  Overall, this game is all its cracked up to be, and if you dont have it, GO BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spartan396
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 12, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is actually good. The map is huge, a lot of people play, many different classes, and 
 nice graphics. Pretty cool game right? Well lets go to the dark side :twisted:. The game only lets 
 you get to level twenty, which comes pretty fast. And you only see people when you're in town. 
 When you're out in the wild, fighting monsters you cant see anybody. Back on the upside you can 
 see people in your party. So all in all its a pretty good game but if you want to talk to tons 
 of people and have lots of friends but dont mind graphics play a game like Runescape. I don't like 
 it anymore but you might. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gortezn
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 12, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  This game, like Guild War, is brilliantly engineered. The landscapes to explore are massive and 
 thought-invoking, however, with the help of your map, you can complete distant quests in no time 
 at all! Not only is this true, but the npcs in the game are more helpful then in most rpgs, and 
 often even acompany you on dangerous quests. NCsoft really hit the ticket this time around with 
 the ability to obtain mercenaries from the very beginning quest, and the gift of your resurrection 
 signet even before you joined the multiplayer realm. 
  Even after all of this, I was still amazed at how smooth combat seemed. attacking, casting spells, 
 and healing allies seemed almost natural this time around; plus, it was easier to just go around 
 hacking at things, or casting spells, and especially healing your allies without having the fear 
 of dying. 
  All in all, I think this game is awesome. It stands out from many other rpgs these days and should 
 be recognized for that. This game is not addicting like many other mmorpgs, and the game transitions 
 very smoothly from beginning to end and beyond. if you have the money for it, I recommend you by 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quelon
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 6, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  ive heard many things about this game, good and bad. the first time i put this into my cpu i was 
 amazed! the game blew me off my feet. with good graphics and great gameplay its impossible not 
 to like, and with updates every day it is just too addictive! you just jump into this huge detailed 
 world, with strange monsters and powers made to blow away the opposing force. your not in to the 
 story mode, make a pvp (player v. s player) only character that starts at max level. play in random 
 arenas or team matches whatever suits you. and no thats not it , create your own guild and participate 
 in events like dragon celebrations july 1-july 5!
  
  GET THIS GAME!
  
  and dont believe anyone who says otherwise!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toppertje
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 5, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  I've played this game for over 3000 hours now in 13 months and it still keeps me going. The PvP 
 on this RPG has so much different ways of playing. If u Look further than just the PvE, which most 
 people dont really do, u can get addicted on this game Easily. The major advantage of this game 
 is that its free. Ofcourse WoW is bigger, but the competition in WoW is by far not the competition 
 and pvp skills u need for this game. I can imagine that people dont even know how the PvP really 
 works because of unlocking of skill true spending Faction in game. But if u start to play this 
 game u should start with watchin the observer mode first. Try to understande whats going on. Try 
 to see what its all about. If u PvE only u hardly play with skills u really need in GvG or PvP. 
 For PvE u dont need much brains in this game, its all pretty obvious shown and u can complete the 
 main mission streak within 72 hours, im not talking bout the quests. This game is Revolutionary 
 good on PvP area, and the meaning of Ranks and Titles but especially Rank on the ladder Really 
 gives u a great purpose to play for. Championships held every 6 months, with awsome prices. and 
 thrust me everyone can be in there, if u got the: brains, time and spirit for it!! With a Guild, 
 some Crazy ingame friends it wont be any problem!
  
  No Monthly Fee, Best competetive MMORPG ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastershake1337
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 5, 2006 6:39 am PT
Review:  First off yeah no paying money ever month to pay, graphics are good and world looks really good, 
 I have been playing this game since it came out and i must say I already stopped playing , the 
 first one was great I played that game till my eyes shut, I have to say though i used to have dial-up 
 and I played this game fractions could have been better More classes than just 2 new ones, maybe 
 more path options kind of already laid out for you But hey it's a free mmorpg if you like RPG games 
 but are tired of paying this is a good alternative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: os008
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 3, 2007 6:26 am PT
Review:  I played the first release of Guild Wars, it was amazing, great value, moderate story,  etc.
 
  
  But Im very disappointed in this release, its much shorter, I finished 4 characters, fully unlocked, 
 with max on everything, in 2 weeks, so this negates any score in Value
  
  The story was very bad, or you could say shallow and rushed, very bad acting, and empty, bad score 
 for the Value and Tilt.
  
  They also didnt consider reducing the price for the old release, or even adding content to it, 
 which reduces the Value also.
  
  The GFX hasnt been improved, therere still invisible obstacles, and even worse than before cause 
 of the closed space everywhere, so bad score in GFX, though they had time to do so.
  
  The stability and lag is not an issue anymore, partially, it was good most of the time, but I got 
 disconnected a lot in some days, and some I didnt, so maybe these were bad days for the company, 
 so we might pass on that.
  
  The sound track is still boring, too much repetition, and no good ambient sound, I end up playing 
 some music in the background, bad score for SFX for not improving also.
  
  And finally the game play, this release is very hard, to the limit of frustration sometimes, why 
 would they want to torture the players, although I finished the game with Henchies mostly, also 
 the leveling is much faster, of course I mentioned the game being short already, they limited some 
 of the old skills to the original game only, so now you have to select from a list of a bit worse 
 skills, or buy the original expansion, OR buy the skills pack, which is totally unfair, but the 
 new players dont know about it, so they wont care, the dynamics of everything is still good, 
 I mean controls, casting, attacking,  etc, also the world is too small and not as interesting 
 as the first one, at least from my point of view, bad score for game play too.
  
  Im really very disappointed in this release, and I wont buy any more games from them, except 
 if I read in a trusted review that they fixed all these problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: havokmaster
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 1, 2006 3:59 am PT
Review:  + Massive World
  + No Monthly Subscription
  + Continually Updated, Almost Daily
  + Forgiving On System Recources
  + Extremely Involving
  
  - At The Beginning, The World Can 
 Be Too Big
  - Graphics Are Mediocre
  - Level Up Too Fast
  - Once LV. 20, Game Gets Boring
  
  If you were a fan of the original, I suggest get this game, 
 but only if you were a fan. If not, get the first game, then, if you like that, get this game...
 
  
  If you are looking for graphics in a game, this wont be your cup of tea...
  
  BUT, If you are looking for a great game, at great value, that will last you hundreds of hours, 
 then get this, its well worth it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: don16086
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 28, 2006 12:59 pm PT
Review:  It seems the norm now for online games to cost you hefty fees to play and the biggest problem with 
 that is those #$%! fees every month! Don't get me wrong, other games in this genre are great but 
 paying every so often to play it is stupid. On top of all the other bills there is no way I would 
 justify it. 
  
  Anyways, if you haven't been playing GuildWars as yet, I would recommend that you always get the 
 newest expansion as most people, at least in my experience, don't like to play the old missions 
 and you will get little help from people in your guild who are usually busy puttering around in 
 the new game. Of course there is always other people online so usually finding groups of people 
 is not too hard. There is always the bots or 'henchmen' you can use but the AI is no to bright 
 and on some missions they are impossible to use. I like the fact that this game is more based on 
 coop then farming for items, though the latter does happen, you can always farm cooperatively. 
 
  
  The main difference in Factions compared to the first release is that there are less missions and 
 they are time based so you have to complete then in a certain about of time to get the master reward. 
 The usual player vs player stuff is here and plenty of new items and skills for you to mess around 
 with. I bought this game sight unseen and have been playing it since the beginning, and I don't 
 prefer this type of game so who knows, maybe you will be addicted too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katosepe321
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 27, 2006 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars: Factions is the second chapter in the Guild Wars series and, while it doesnt significantly 
 alter the series, it definitely does add on to the already incredible formula. The notable changes 
 that Factions adds are the two new classes which I will describle a little later, A completely 
 new continent called Cantha, and a new storyline. It also adds new kinds of missions and, of course, 
 new skills and weapons for every class. The biggest change, however, is the addition of various 
 factions throughout the Guild Wars world. Right now, you can choose to be either a Luxon or a Kruzic 
 (forgive me if I spelled that wrong) and whichever side you choose, gives you different options 
 as to the quests and missions you can accept. Also, it changes the armor and weapons you can use, 
 and it influences your PvP battles. So back to the character classes, the new classes are Assassin 
 and Ritualist. 
  Assassins specialties are support damage and status inflictors. They have plenty of combo skills 
 that prevent an enemy from attacking as well as buffing skills that help them inflict critical 
 damage and prevent being attacked. Finally, the Assassin can specialize in inflicting bleeding 
 and crippled on the enemy with various spells and attacks.
  Ritualists are kind of the flip side of a coin from Necromancers. They raise spirits to use as 
 pets in battle but they aren't quite as evil feeling as Necromancers. The spirits they raise can 
 have a wide range of effects on the outcome of battle. Some spirits can take damage for an ally 
 or even heal that ally when he/she is hurt.
  
  Gameplay: Unlike most RPG's, this game is much more PvP based and is much more focused around tactics 
 and strategy as opposed to simply having the highest level character. To support this, the highest 
 level you can get is 20. This definitely will throw some people off of guild wars but for those 
 of you that stick with it and start doing some guild battles, you won't regret it. Despite the 
 low level cap, there are countless ways you can customize your character. Every level (and some 
 quests that you complete) will give you attribute points and skill points. First though, we must 
 talk about classes and sub-classes. When you first start the game, you must pick a class. Every 
 class has 3 attributes and one primary attribute. Each skill that you recieve throughout the game 
 is associated with one of these 4 attributes (there are some exceptions and these are No Attribute 
 skills) . For example, Monk's, in the world of guild wars, can play healer or can use holy magic 
 to hurt enemies (there are more ways to play a monk but we will stick to these right now) . If you 
 level up the healing spells attributes, your healing spells will become more potent, but if you 
 level up your smiting skills, then your attack magic will become more powerful. What seperates 
 the 3 attributes from the primary attribute is that you can only have your main classes primary 
 attribute. Early on in the game, you will be able to pick a sub-class which gives you the options 
 of picking the three basic attributes and all skills of that class. It also affects your stats. 
 For example, if an assassin uses a lot of skills and/or spells, he/she could choose to be a subclass 
 elementalist or other magic class and then they would have a higher maximum energy and also be 
 able to choose from elementalist skills. However, they would not be able to increase the elementalists 
 primary attribute (energy storage) at all.
  Skills are the actual attacks/moves that you can use in battle. Every level you get a certain amount 
 of skill points and this allows you to buy skills from certain traders (skills also cost money 
 so don't forget that) . Then these skills will be used in battles. You can buy as many skills as 
 your skill points permit, however you can only have 8 equipped when you go into battles. This forces 
 you to use strategy in your battles as you have to predict what skills will be necessary.
  Overall, the gameplay is very PvP based which is an incredible change to the normal, kill all the 
 random computer people and every once in a while fight an actual person MMO's that are so common 
 these days. Personally, guild wars creates an entirely new creation the MMO world and definitely 
 pushs the limits for the better. Also, for those of you thinking of buying an MMO but you don't 
 want to pay the monthly fees, there are no extra fees after the initial purchase of the game.
 
  
  Graphics: While not groundbreaking, the graphics in Guild Wars are nothing to scoff at. There are 
 many different areas that contain incredible landscapes that greatly depict beautiful Chinese landscapes. 
 The character designs are ok but the lack of any facial expressions or even mouth movement wrecks 
 the feeling of the cinematics. Graphics really are the only downfall of Guild Wars but should not, 
 in any way prevent you from buying.
  
  Sound: The sound is forgettable but, unlike some RPG's, is far from bad. The effects are cool in 
 the fact that the battle grunts and clashs never gets annoying. Many RPG's will have repeated grunts 
 or battlecrys that just bug you after a while but Guild Wars, the effect gives you an adreneline 
 rush at the battle and makes you feel more into whats going on.
  
  Overall: While some things can be improved in the game, Guild Wars is certainly the best MMORPG 
 to come out in a long time. Move over World of Warcraft, it's now the era of Guild Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gin_maiden
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 25, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  if you have played the first guild wars then u should just stop reading this and go and pick up 
 factions, because factions has everything you loved about guild wars and added more to it. 
  gameplay- in factions, there are couple of new pvp experience. one of these new additions include 
 guild alliances which let u join up with 12 people of your tribes and play against the opposing 
 tribes. factions includes 2 tribes, the luxons and the kurzicks., and 2 new classes the ritualists 
 and the assassins. 
  graphic- the game runs on the same engine that the old guild wars ran on. that is because guild 
 wars engine looked so good that it didnt need to be replaced with a new engine.
  experience- factions is set in the world of cantha which is kind of smaller than the world of tyria 
 but it has lots of contains and quests and missions to offer. factions is not all about the pvp, 
 but also pve. in factions if ur guild owns towns or outposts then u are interduced to the elite 
 missions which are only available for good guilds that have lots of factions. 
  anyways, this is a must buy for any one that played through the first guild wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXx_Phenix_xXx
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jan 23, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  I've been playing Guild Wars religiously for over a year now and of the three campaigns, this is 
 by far the worst! Guild Wars (original) is superb! Nightfall was worth a million bucks, but faction's 
 campaign was horrible! I do enjoy the new skills, the new classes, the repayable missions, and 
 all the other features that came a long with the $45 expansion / stand-alone game, but the campaign 
 was short... too short, finished it in about a week with a new character playing for only a couple 
 hours a day. The storyline was dull, the cut scenes were not well done at all, the environments 
 we're simply annoying to play in and the last boss took me less than 1 minute to kill! Hardly standard 
 for an endgame boss, and your reward? a set of daggers that was required 15 daggers (if you're 
 playing an assassin) , and a pile of other, worthless green items. Another Downside, the beginning 
 island was short (thank god) , annoying, and boring and by the time you were finished, you're at 
 least level 15, only 5 more levels to go until your capped and 12 more missions, exactly the same 
 as the last one, to go. If i had to pick a price tag for this game i don't think it would be any 
 more than $9.99. If you're a Roll-Player, this game is NOT for you! PvP player's may embrace the 
 load of new skills and classes to bash at your rivals, but otherwise the game is not worth the 
 cost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rentago
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 21, 2006 2:15 am PT
Review:  Well don't get pissed at me if I'm wrong and their japanese...
  
  Anyways, I still play this game and I havn't lost interest as fast as I did in WoW. I mean I've 
 played hundreds of games and I'm rating them right however don't forget viewers tilt thats just 
 my impression but unlike most who just say it sucks because they suck at it or pissed because they 
 never played a MMORPG like diablo before if you have played Diablo and/or WoW you'll feel at home. 
 This game offers towns and outposts in which players are together to form groups like somewhat 
 diablo does and this game offers pets and skills to use while in combat and lots of running around 
 (With exception to being able to click on map to just travel) This offers a big change though because 
 when you have a quest and you zone out into a hostile area you got the piece to yourself with no 
 hassle of having to wait in a line as people kill a boss and wait for respawn no no this has none 
 of that. Your OWN personal world and like diablo you form a sqaud with people before you go out 
 or you can get henchmen like NPC characters that help you fight in place of people you would normally 
 have in your party.
  
  The game doesn't have the usual problems of WoW or anything boring like the places you see dont 
 change much sure they just add grass or sand but they only put the same land scape just differant 
 skins infact there are probably 4 differant caves but they just add snow or lava or something but 
 its the same damn thing. It gets boring. This game doesn't have that problem this game is just 
 full of fun things to do without the hassle of monthy payments and high computer requirements infact 
 its like WoW in graphics but you run it you can make the game look better than WoW :D
  
  I said China Town in a box because its just one big asian paradise in Factions and then you got 
 like a american community in Tyria. You get secondary professions in this so you can be a ranger/monk 
 or assassin/warrior and vise versa. 
  
  The big thing in this game is that you utilize your second profession since your max lvl is 20 
 you need to use tactics and strategies like getting on higher land or something to have a advantage 
 if taking a lvl 30 foe who might even be a elite also! As a lvl 20 ranger/monk I have a pet bear 
 who stands up and knocks the Sh*t out of people hes like 10 feet tall you don't get that in WoW 
 and well I kill lvl 28s and do alot of quests which is like a group of 6 lvl 20s vs 500 Stone summit 
 dwarves lvl 20-28 some elite and yeah it can get frusterating if you aren't prepared or can't think 
 on your feet.
  
  It keeps you on the edge of your chair I have a wooden chair and I do that to keep my ass from 
 getting numb : (
  
  However truely get faction first since it has all the overwhelming gayness of hexes and lvl 11s 
 soloing lvl 20s unbalanced gaming corrected and fixed giving you a easier time playing. All you 
 do is do your Primary quest to advance in story so if your on a island and you want to get to mainland 
 you just do your primary and eventualy you can go to mainland and continue from there. There are 
 also side quests to do which are helpful since some reward you with things or you need to level 
 up quests are the thing to do.
  
  Take it from me no game is liked by everyone I hate halo2 because everyone just snipes no one does 
 **** in that game and halo1 is pistol mainly so I dislike games that have flaws or unbalanced while 
 others dont like it because they suck don't learn or just can't seem to use common sense.
  
  Have fun and rent games before you buy (But MMOs dont do that :p) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dzearing
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 21, 2006 12:58 am PT
Review:  I stopped playing the original guild wars some time ago, after beating it with 3 different characters. 
 Well, when I bought factions I was hooked again... after well over a 1300 hours online for the 
 original and factions combined, I can say that I really loved the factions addition.
  
  Things I really love:
  
  Many new skills to master and mix up.
  
  Lots of new weapons (and 
 greens) to try finding/acquiring.
  
  The new ritualist class is pretty decent (especially vengeful solo builds) ; the assassin not as 
 much. They will need to do some balancing to make the assassin more useful.
  
  The elite missions are absolutely amazing (and absolutely brutal.)
  
  The game is just so versatile 
 and replayable. I love finding new places to farm, new challenges to conquer, quirks in the game 
 that I can exploit, etc. 
  
  Things not so hot:
  
  Assassin could have been better. Nobody really wants assassins to join their groups. Even ritualists 
 are considered "secondary healers/prot" compared to the primary monks. It quite difficult to master 
 these new professions and many give up with a chip on their shoulder for anyone still trying to 
 master that profession.
  
  Still no built auction house. Drives me crazy to sit in a city and spam WTS x! and wait for someone 
 to finally come alolng who wants it. And guildwarsguru. com/auction is too ridiculously slow to 
 use.
  
  Would have been nice to have the elite missions accessible without joining a faction farming guild. 
 I don't mind farming for cool weapons and such, but farming faction is just slow and boring.
  
  The storyline was pretty lame and the voice acting horrible and unbelievable. But meh - the 
 game's core replayability does not revolve around the cutscenes.
  
  And last but not least - the people that typically play guild wars are teenagers. Some are really 
 fun and helpful, but most are annoying selfish brats that call everyone "noobs" and complain about 
 the most petty things and leave the group in the middle of a mission. Drives me insane.
  
  But all in all, guild wars itself is a great game. Factions added pretty much twice the content, 
 there are still places that I haven't even been to. Love it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Geitsau
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 20, 2006 2:11 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 
  Tons of skills to play with, but you'll notice how similar they are after a while. You can only 
 bring eight with you at one time though, so you might have to make some strategic choices. The 
 quests get very similar after a while, they're only fun on the first island, after that, they're 
 means of leveling. Noobs are, like in many other MMORPG's, quite a nuisance in this game. The henchmen 
 system is quite useful when you're adventuring on your own, but when it comes to Missions, they're 
 useless. The PvP system is quite entertaining, in fact, that's the most fun aspect of the game, 
 but still, you feel like you fight for nothing. There aren't really any good rewards.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are actually very good. The spells look especially neat. As stated in 
 the tilt section, there isn't really much variation though.
  
  Sound:
  The main theme is the only theme that really stands out in the crowd. You can hardly tell the other 
 themes apart. Come on Jeremy Soule, we know you can do better (Oblivion) . The sound effects are 
 just ok, I guess, nothing special.
  
  Value:
  You reach your max level 1/3 into the main quest, so you basically have no "real" goals further 
 in the game. The weapon/armor system is COMPLETELY broken. You can buy weapons and armor with best 
 attack/armor stats just after you reach Kaineng (the main isle) . The fact that there really are 
 no goals in this game, besides getting useless titles, is quite disappointing. The henchmen system 
 is quite useful when you're adventuring on your own, but when it comes to Missions, they're useless. 
 The fact that the game is free of charge is pretty neat, but there hasn't been ONE real update 
 as of yet (game AND updates my ass) .
  
  Tilt: 
  The cinematics are a way of torturing yourself. The voices are the worst I've ever heard in my 
 life (especially Master Togo's) . And their lips doesn't move. That shouldn't be possible in 2006! 
 You cannot go wherever you want, so there's a slight chance you might get stuck in a wall/staircase. 
 And it seems like a 10-year old wrote the history! It's not involving at all! Some guys get a disease, 
 the disease spreads, and you, the hero, must STOP THIS DISEASE! That doesn't sound really fun, 
 now does it? And the areas, you won't believe how similar they are! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theguardian524
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2006 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars: Factions somewhat of an expansion for Guild Wars but can function on its own. Allow 
 though there is a new map for Factions (Cantha) . When advancing along the storyline and traveling 
 through cities and towns you can eventually find a dock and take a boat ride to the previous map 
 of Tyria only if you own Guild Wars as well. In Factions you and granted all classes and skills 
 as in Guild Wars (Prophicies Campaign) plus two more classes with their own new and unquie skills. 
 The two new classes, Assassin and Ritualist. The only thing you are nto allowed to do if you do 
 not own the original Guild Wars is go to the Prophicies campaign map.
  
  One thing that old school players have grown to dislike about Factions is the speed at which you 
 level compared to leveling in Prophicies. It is alot easier and faster to level up in Factions, 
 which I find to be a little unfair.
  
  Overall I would say this is a good expansion if you wish to go through another story sequence or 
 just simply play some different styles of fighting in PvP.
  
  (Worth buying, and playing)
  
  -Andrew, The Guardian
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lewislandry2007
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 14, 2006 10:05 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars Faction was an Amazing piece of work and i enjoyed alot. The new stuff in it was fanastic 
 and hope they more into it. Why you ask well it too short and need to lengthing. The weapons and 
 armor are superb and i cant ask for any better stuff. The Treasure is cool but it does make you 
 mad sometimes it not a Rare item you were looking for but it all Random so it make the game more 
 balance. The missions i say are fun but then they start to get repeitive and the explorable areas 
 goes the same but that what make it fun and what it a challenge. I reccomond anyone looking for 
 a Goood MMORPG go and pick up Guild Wars Factions. It Fanastic Masterpiece ull love it once you 
 play it. And it Free Online how can you say no to that. Hehehe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xvator
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 11, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is not an ordinary mmorpg. From the storyline to pvp, its absolutely incredible. In my 
 time, all the video games were trying to make jumps correctly or trying to catch a monster, etc. 
 Nowadays, games have evolved from just 2D characters to 3D everything! The graphics are also very 
 amazing! They will just stun you when you just look at the fighting systems and trade systems. 
 It is just a very good game to play.
  
  Although this game is very good, it has some glitches. For example, if you are playing in a team 
 and you lose your internet connection, it screws up. You just start popping out everywhere and 
 you can't get back into your group. You have to log out and try to find another team. Also, there 
 are some minor physics glitches. At the team arenas in pvp, there is a gate up the stairs on the 
 right. Instead of blocking you from seeing what is inside, you can just go into the gate like the 
 gate was a ghost or something and take a peak inside. 
  
  Aside from all these glitches, this game is marvelous. It will keep you on the computer for hours 
 and hours as this game has an awesome story line that will keep you busy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Inuyasha_Iic
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 11, 2006 12:38 am PT
Review:  This game is a nice sequel to the first game, Guild Wars. The one big improvement that I really 
 enjoy is the faster level gaining. This really helps speed up gameplay and allows you to enjoy 
 the game more. The new armor variety isn't what I expected it to be. It's kind of plain and boring 
 looking. The only problem I see with this game is the variety of enemies. The only enemies to fight 
 are the afflicted, and some random people who fall from the sky. It would be a bit better to fight 
 different types of monsters and no people at all. Over all I would highly recomend this game to 
 anyone who has the original Guild Wars, or anyone who is thinking of buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legolas_Prime
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 10, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  First of all I want to say I'm a big Guild Wars Fan. This one is more PvP (Player Vs. Player) than 
 PvE (Role Playing) . I loved the first one and this one too but if you're searching for a long experience 
 you should buy the first one. Guild Wars owners will definetly want to buy this. But this one has 
 a sort of training in the beginning (that you can skip) . And this game fits with all the computers 
 you just need a 32 MB video card to play it! So play the first one and if you like it you will 
 surely enjoy this one that was a big slap in WoW's face. Oh and let me remind you of one important 
 thing.... No Monthly Fee!!!!!!!!!
  
  So enjoy this wonderful game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow_op
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 9, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  That's the best part, it's free. More action than WoW and (in my opinion) better professions and 
 races. Warcraft is (again in my opinion) meant to be a strategy game, but WoW is an awesome game 
 too. But, this is better. I am not ther MMORPG kinda guy, im more a shooter person, but, this game 
 deserves a spot in any Pc gamer's collection. Also t; s a bit more fast paced and more combat. I 
 like this game and you should too. *Goes to spend 10-15 hours on this game over the week*. Ohh 
 and 1 more thing. Since it's summer (long 3 months away from school for most of us) + it take's 
 you quite a while to finish= great time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonyrobles2002
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jun 8, 2006 2:53 am PT
Review:  If you found the henchmen AI a little annoying in the first game, or the fact you can't walk through 
 certain points because of invisble obstacles... then you might want to stay away from this supliment. 
 The Canthan terrain is covered with obtacles making the game a serious pain to move from point 
 A to B as you'll have to backtrack steps, and be teleported to corners, etc.. Also, your henchmen 
 AI is very poor, while the mob's AI is much better. Prepare for your party to spread their attacks, 
 while the mobs nuke you and your healer before touching anyone else.
  The visuals are stunning, and the concept of the game is great. But playing the game is extremely 
 frustrating, not only for those items mentioned above, but for their choice of # of mobs per encounter, 
 etc.
  The intro part of the game I'd rank 8/10, due to its open terrain and ease of quests. The middle 
 part of the game I'd rank a 2/10. I dunno if I can make it to the end to give a rating.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joseph_hart
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2006 6:12 pm PT
Review:  i spent 68$ on this game and its worth every dollar definatly. there is a new continant, Cantha, 
 wich is awesome, and of course the two new proffesions, assasin and ritualist. the asassin uses 
 daggers (max dmg 17 i think) and use kind of light armour and use interesting combos. forst you start 
 with a lead attack, followed with an off-hand attack, then a dual attack. and there is seperate, 
 unique animations for each of these attacks too.
  The ritualist on the other hand is part monk, part spirit summoner. they can heal or ressurect 
 the other party members by sacrificing some of his health. he can also summon spirits to either 
 inflict damage, take it, or heal other party members. they also have support spells like increasing 
 attack or speed witch makes them very useful while doing a party mission.
  there is also a constant war going on between two different factions, the kurzics, and the luxons. 
 your guild can side with certain factions by cashing in faction points you get by fighting for 
 the side of your choice. and there is different cities wich can be taken over by either side, depending 
 on who wins the battles. they have also added 150 new skills to the already exsiting skills for 
 the already existing proffesions. this game is definatly worth you money. go buy it right now. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Manaka-kun
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 7, 2006 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars Factions is the first expansion pack for the MMORPG Guild Wars. Now, the continent of 
 Cantha may be considered dull by many, but I myself love it. With the exception of the huge eyesore 
 of a city that dominates half the continent.
  
  Game play hasn't advanced much from Guild Wars. The enemies have gotten stronger earlier on, you 
 level faster and you find it hard to get into a party for missions because of your distinct class 
 choice (if you want an easy time, go for a Monk or Warrior for more party invites. Necromancers 
 also get an easier time than the others.) I won't go into detail about the 8 classes, but I'll 
 say their main ability track.
  Warrior: Fighting.
  Elementalist: Your standard Black Mage.
  Necromancer: Minion Summoning magic, health draining 
 magic and curses, or hexes if you will.
  Mesmer: Hex master. Literally.
  Monk: Your standard White Mage.
  Ranger: Your archer and pet master.
  Assassin (Factions Only) : 
 Another fighter, weaker in defense and better in speed.
  Ritualist: Your standard Summoner with a huge handicap (spirits never move, no elements, which 
 I find lowers their appeal) .
  This game is mainly attack enemies and track through the many paths to gather treasure and gather 
 lots of money. The game doesn't start until you get good armour and a good set of weapons, and 
 level 18-20 (literally, it starts at 1, but all the good stuff is at 20.)
  
  Graphics are the same as Guild Wars, and there is loads of room for improvement, but this is what 
 I would expect from a non-profit company (by non-profit, I mean no monthly fees to play this game.)
 
  
  Sound is very Oriental in Factions, which suits the Asian setting perfectly in my view. It can 
 get annoying to certain people, but it may also appeal. Not much to write home about, as I can't 
 pinpoint too many tracks in the game, but it's ok.
  
  Overall, this expansion pack is NOT worth the $100 (or $50, depending on where you live, whatever. 
 I haven't checked any recent prices.) , but if you don't own the original Guild Wars, you can play 
 this, as it is stand-alone OR an add-on pack. It's better to mix your original Guild Wars and Factions 
 accounts for both continents to be open for exploring.
  
  You might want to wait until it goes down in price before actually buying this. It is heavy on 
 PvP content, but you need to be in a real Guild verse Guild guild or a good PvP or Heroes Ascent 
 team/guild. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenshiro69
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2006 9:47 pm PT
Review:  I loved playing Battlenet for the same reason! You shouldn't have to continue to pay monthly charges 
 AFTER you purchase a game at $50-$60. My friends and I enjoy meeting up online and solving the 
 quests. I agree with some of the other reviews that it is too easy to level up in Factions but 
 the monsters are very strong and just because you reach the maximum level of 20 does not mean that 
 you can't be killed. This game is VERY balanced and for every character, there is another type 
 of character class that can nearly render you helpless. This is why you need to form a good mix 
 of characters to succeed in this game. One fighter, one healer, an elementalist, and a mesmer would 
 make up a pretty balanced party and should be able to counter most of the different types of enemies 
 you face. The HEALER is critical and needs to be competent to succeed. The oriental theme is different 
 and fun. The world is HUGE and exploring the world of Guild Wars will make for countless hours 
 of fun. Communication with your team mates is clumsy and difficult during the heat of battle. (It's 
 hard to type commands when you're attacking or healing.) Your party doesn't have time to read your 
 messages when they're in the heat of battle as well so even if you type the message, they may not 
 read it. I'm having too much fun exploring the world and solving quests so I haven't had a chance 
 to explore the Player vs. Player aspect of the game. I am looking forward to that aspect after 
 my friends and I solve all of the different quests. I rate this game 9.0 and I hope that other 
 companies will follow and provide FREE ONLINE PLAY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deluderkriss
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 5, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  I don't player de old campaign, but hen in beta version i stow interested in playing, but all of 
 my friend not started to player and im not buy. 
  But when i knew of expansion and I gave a search about the game, i saw how much is amazing the 
 game. I'm from Brazil and we have some difficult to player massive online game, because the publisher 
 of the game does not bring representative for here, and we have to pay many taxes to buy the game 
 or to have international card, and Guld Wars is more simple, just buy the serial, download the 
 Client and play!!!! I buy this campaign (Factions) , i will buy the old, and certainly buy the future 
 expansion.
  
  Write by Juliano Canto from Brazil. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soppderock
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 4, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Okay, to start right on my point. 
  
  Guild wars Faction is a great game, by no means. I truly enjoyed playing the game but there just 
 seemed to be something that did not made a good impression on me, and that must be the length of 
 the game. The fun is alrady over once you start seriously.
  
  It is right what some people say, the game can get a little repetitive at times, but most of your 
 time you will be using figuring out new ways to enchance your playing, and the most fun, is to 
 try out new combinations, mix together different classes and surprise other players. Unfortunately, 
 many people and i am not an exception, use builds right from the web, which then lastly makes the 
 fun in making a new build completely wasted. In addition, once the communty makes something fun 
 out of a certain build, Anet, the producers, Nerf the fun. Like adjusting the skills to make them 
 less effective and etc. That is alright, as we all like a fari play, right? 
  
  What I did like with faction must have been, the graphics, right. Guild Wars has the best visuals 
 I have seen on any games I have played. Some of the places are stunning with eye candy and other 
 sensational stuff decoring the environment. But, there is an exception and that is the main island, 
 which is approximately 50% of Faction. All the background on the mainland looks almost exactly 
 the same, with high worn-down buildings, which at times makes coordination tedious and difficult. 
 
  
  I was hoping guild wrs faction would deliver a fine and exciting storyplot, as I glimpsed a movie 
 clip just a week before release, and it did impress me. Through most of Faction, the storyline 
 is flowing natually, maybe a little monotonous at the beginning, starting of with a plague raiding 
 Cantha (the country) . Soon we get to know that something evil is starting off this plague and this 
 someone comes from the netherworld , wow, so exciting, doh! Following the rest of the storyline 
 it is a save the world theme, or save Cantha! Well, not actually what Iwas hoping to see, the same 
 lame and unoriginal theme the first Chapter of Guild wars had. But it seems Anet (the producers) 
 do not learn from their failures. They should add a creative/idea team to aid their process of 
 making a game, which someone from gamespot once wrote something about, and I really like this idea. 
 But whatever. I can tell you, without spoiling too much, that Faction has it moments but turns 
 it to naught with a horrid ending which makes absolutely no sense at all!
  
  The gameplay has not been enchanted that much, with just some newly added skills and two absolutely 
 cool classes/professions to play as, - The assassin and the Ritualist. Some of the new skills remind 
 of a simple remake of already existing skills, with just new names and a new cool picture. Not 
 alright at all. With faction came a new bunch of henches you could decide to tag along with, and 
 to be honest, they are total noobies, and if you are new to this game you will definitely have 
 a very hard time to hang on. But Guild Wars was not ment to be played solo, so you can always join 
 a Guild or ask around in outposts or towns for people who do the same missions as you to make party. 
 
  
  The sound, the music, that is what always has been a pain in the back about this game. Alone the 
 voice acting, man, I could scream. It is so horrid that I sometimes turn off all the music in guild 
 wars and play some hard rock to make my time a little more comfortable, and I am glad guild wr 
 still runs smoothly even with other program running in the background. A big pluss here!
  
  Most fun about guild wars is of course, the excitment to collect Elites (there are certain skills 
 you have to capture from bosses) and forge 15K armours (there are different kinds of armour and 
 the more expensive they are the groovier so do they look) .
  Unfortunately has Anet kept the few flaws along with factions from Prophecies, and that is the 
 inflexibility to customize and personalize your very own character, the painful music from this 
 award winning artist and the dull storyline.
  However, this game is really recomended as it grows on you and makes you dig deeper and deeper 
 just to get the most out of it both for your self and for a great satisfaction.
  
  Last Comment
  
  Gameplay: Still with some of the same Flaws and tedious and repetitive battles, 
 but strategic!
  
  Graphics: Well Improved and the world around you feels more lively and vivid, but makes you want 
 for more, which is where Anet disappoints you, there are too few of those wonderful eye candies!
 
  
  Sound: Just as horrible as the First Guild wars, and voice acting is even worse, blah!
  
  Value: You really get what you pay for and you feel very satisfied at the end, if you there 
 is not something special you trive for. hehe.
  
  Rewievers's Tilt: I still don not like the way everyone has some sort of rank, which makes Halls 
 of Heroes (a special elite coop PVP mission) almost impossible to find a decent group with. it 
 sure makes sense, but not in a good way. There are other more fair solutions..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebohm
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 4, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  i like the game a lot but not as good as the 1st guild wars. It is very east to level up in this 
 version although the enemies are a lot harder to kill so I guess you need to level up pretty quick. 
 Other then the new classes it plays the same so no new learning curve if you played the 1st one. 
 Go buy the game, a free online game like this is a must buy. the reply value is great and combining 
 the 2 games to go back and forth between is priceless. I never played WoW but i can't imagine for 
 the monthly fee you need to pay with WOW that it can even compare the Guild wars. The game is great 
 and it is free, what else can you ask for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Code
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 2, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Im gonna be proffesional and review even tho i found it boreing i gotta look at the good. I think 
 i didnt enjoy it seeing as how i play WoW it just felt watered down.
  
  Graphics are nice with some decent lighting and enviroments looks great and are nice to look at. 
 The feel you get when as the game seemlessly changes from a plain to mountians while you travle 
 is very nice indeed. Overall the graphics are the only thing i found to be great.
  
  Sound is pretty good tho the music tho soothing grows annoying. Sword clashs all sound the same 
 and you wish there wa more to them but this minor and nothing to worry about.
  
  Gameplay is what i thought to be the downfall of the game. Let me start out here by saying for 
 a free MMORPG it is pretty good i recomend whoever is starting out in MMO's to pick this up and 
 learn some basics. Now to gameplay. I found it dull and boreing for starters the PvP combat is 
 all the same in basics and and there isnt mutch difference in game types. ANd the ability to instantly 
 get a lvl 20 being the highest lvl but this being nice and all kinda ruins the point in lvling 
 up. Towns and outposts are the only place you will see other people and can group with them which 
 the allows you to do quest with them compared to a real MMORPG this is kinda annoying i mean in 
 WoW i meet most people i know just out in the wilderness where we then work together.
  
  Overall i just couldnt get into the game i found the gameplay boreing and the sound sub par. Plus 
 the so calld no additions i couldnt even notice. For those of you that play MMO's at the time steer 
 clear but for anyone that is thinking about starting in MMO's then you may want to try this.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 1, 2006 11:14 am PT
Review:  Notes: I have been trying to find the perfect MMO and this is the ONE!!!
  
  Gameplay: The interface is friendly and easy to use, right now im a lvl 13 warrior/ranger and I 
 love how I get the pets and markmanship skills of a ranger and the shear brute force of a warrior. 
 It evens out nicely. 10
  
  Graphics: Not the best but stil pretty dam good!!! Exspecially with a geforece 7900gtx its looks 
 really good. 8
  
  Sound: The music score is awsome it actualy replaces my Ipod when im playing games! lol. 9
  
 
  Value: I can tell Ill be poppin this in for years!! 10
  
  tIlt: Great MMO for not so hardcore people. Reccomend to anyone!! 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oblivion_89
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 31, 2006 6:01 am PT
Review:  A MMO designed by several team members from Blizzard's StarCraft, Warcraft, Diablo and the Battle. net 
 gaming network. Unique to Guild Wars is a skill-based gameplay system, a social world with each 
 quest spawned uniquely for you and your group, and online play run through a special ArenaNet system 
 to provide absolutely free MMO gameplay.
  Guild Wars takes the best elements of today's massively multiplayer online games and combines them 
 with a new mission-based design that eliminates the tedium of those games. You can meet new friends 
 in towns or outposts, form a party, and then go tackle a quest together. Your party always has 
 its own unique copy of the quest map, so camping, kill-stealing, and long lines to complete quests 
 are all things of the past. Within a quest you have unprecedented freedom and power to manipulate 
 the world around you: your magic can build bridges and open up new pathways, or it can burn down 
 forests and tear the ground asunder.
  You don't have to spend countless hours on a leveling treadmill to get to the interesting parts 
 of the game, because combat is designed to be strategically interesting and challenging right from 
 the beginning. You don't have to spend hours running around the world to prepare for a quest, because 
 Guild Wars allows you to instantly travel to the beginning of any quest that you've previously 
 unlocked. You'll never spend days playing only to discover that choices you made early on have 
 left you with a permanently uncompetitive character, because the unique skill system in Guild Wars 
 allows infinite experimentation but doesn't allow bad decisions to ruin a character. And you'll 
 never meet new players only to discover that you can't play with them or compete against them because 
 their characters are on a different server than yours; in Guild Wars, all characters live in one 
 seamless world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ale_jrb
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2006 4:28 am PT
Review:  "Guild Wars: Factions" is the second 'chapter' in the ArenaNet franchise. It adds spome great new 
 features to the previous game, but misses out on the depth that made the previous one so addictive.
 
  
  First, the storyline. For new players who haven't played the Guild Wars series before, the storyline 
 is probably interesting and addictive. Despite playing the original, I can see that if you haven't 
 played it, Factions would be interesting and thorough. However, for those players who loved the 
 first storyline, Factions is a bit of a let down. It is cliche in almost every way and the storyline 
 holds true to that in a normal RPG - which Guild Wars is not.
  
  The gameplay, however, remains as fast and furious as ever. If you are not in the game for the 
 story, you won't be disappointed by the carefully done, fun combat and the thought required in 
 choosing skills. In this aspect as least, Guild Wars: Factions lives up to its predecessor.
  
  The new features and skills are, in my opinion, great. The new alliance, PvP battles are a 
 thing to admire - they are highly addictive and great fun, even for me who is usually a PvE player. 
 The new classes provide a well needed breath of fresh air and complement the new skill set very 
 well.
  
  In all, Guild Wars: Factions is still great fun. However, if you are into the storyline at all, 
 you will find that is lacks the addictive depth that makes Guild Wars what it is. Did ArenaNet 
 spend enough time developing it? Hard to say. Whatever your opinion, though, no one can say Factions 
 isn't fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bart_ahbeng
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 31, 2006 1:23 am PT
Review:  There was a lot of hype before it came out. Choosing sides, new weapons, new armor and so on but 
 in the end it was pretty much the same thing maybe worse. Its always fun and exciting when you 
 start a new game hence i guess the high ratings u see above and below this one. As for me somehow 
 or rather i prefer the much slower pace of Prophecies then the "Quick kill them and run" method 
 in order to get the mission and bonus. What happened to taking your time to strategize and prepare 
 before a battle? Maybe cos i'm more a PvE than PvP. Many ppl have commented that the purpose of 
 finishing the game is so that your character can get all the great weapons and armor for the main 
 event, ie PvP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prophet1980
Rating: 9
Date: May 30, 2006 4:52 am PT
Review:  I will keep this short and sweet.
  
  I think this game is great! 
  
  The world of guild wars is simply breathtaking and runs really smooth.
  
  Start a character 
 from scratch and go through a story arc or start a PVP character straight away, join a guild and 
 start battling it out in the arenas.
  
  There is hardly any lag as when you go on quests as you are restricted to a max of 8 players in 
 a party.
  
  I find it exceptionally annoying that the amount of people on this game that quit half way through 
 a mission that might take an hour to complete. I suppose thats the same for any MMORPG and so you 
 couldnt just place tthe blame on the game itself. Its the communities that make or break MMORPG's. 
 Generally its a friendly place to spend your weekends!
  
  My main gripe with this game is the character creation. Everyone looks the same on this game. Its 
 like hundreds of clones rushing about the place only they have a different dye on their clothes 
 as to make them look different. I must admit that this certainly does detract from the quest side 
 of things as you cannot find better armour or new clothes, you simply need to be of a certain level 
 and have the right amount of money / crafting material in order to gain the next level of armour. 
 Its a shame that they took this path as having a character look and feel as you want it is a big 
 part of any MMORPG.
  
  For the majority of people there is a great game to be found in the world of guild wars. Great 
 environments, stupid amounts of skills and a good story line. I would recommend anyone to give 
 this game a try.
  
  Oh and its free ;-)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: battleroyal
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 29, 2006 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Oke lets start from scratch, i have played the orginal GW a long time it was highly addictive.
 
  Now that i have this game a week of two its even more addictive than its predissesor.
  You can choose new skills, two new proffesions the Assasin and Ritualist ( iam a monk/assasin btw 
 ) 
  New skills, weapons, armor, items you name it and this game has it.
  I highly recommand you this game even if you dont like MMRPG's its worth the try.
  Meet new friends, 
 Quest with them have a laugh or two this is what gaming is about.
  
  See Ya.. In Gameland
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Hunter44
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 28, 2006 11:44 pm PT
Review:  Though it isnt as great as the first, nor is the story as good as the first, It is still excellent. 
 The story dosen't really 'grab' you like the predecessor, but the hell I care, I only want the 
 fun :P Also teamwork and socializing is fun and important in this. The majority of the players 
 are friendly and most are willing to help you if needed. Also, even though there is only 20 levels, 
 it dosen't mean things get less challenging, or there becomes less things to do. In guild wars 
 there are plenty of things to do at level 20, and you will be doing much at that state. If you 
 want something fun, with interesting interaction with others, and no monthly fee, get this! :D 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omegadefender
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 27, 2006 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Although they released only one expansion when we were promised 3 or more a year on average, and 
 the pricing of it was double that which it was soposed to be acording to Arena NET Guild Wars is 
 just simply worth a 70 dollar price tag or higher simply because the gameplay is free, you never 
 pay monthly and pay for the game so thats the biggest win... and to top it off GuildWars not only 
 has some of the worlds greatest graphics inside the game but they actualy match the theme which 
 is a world built on fantasy.
  Although im not saying that guildwars is perfect... i still wish you could jump, mabey swim.... 
 and if posible ignore the stupid invisible walls, fall off the top of a hill for once and so on 
 so forth.... But I had to realize that in order for this to happen A. Net would have had to licence 
 so many things to make it possible like a physics engine, gravity engine, and i forgot what other 
 crap you need to make it all work but it will come to us in due time everyone so have some patience!
 
  
  MEANWHILE IF ANYTHING, PLEASE BIG FOR AN AUCTION HOUSE, LISTENING TO ALL THE IDIOTS INGAME GOING 
 WTS WTB IN TEH REGULAR CHAT IS GETTING REALLY ANNOYING BIGTIME... AND I BELIEVE THAT THE AUCTION 
 HOUSE WILL NOT ONLY MAKE THEM SHUT UP BUT THE ECONOMY WILL BENEFIT. ON THE PLUS SIDE I WOULD LOVE 
 TO BE ABLE TO PICK UP OTHER SKILLS IN THE GAME LIKE BEING ABLE TO BECOME A FARMER A TRAINER ETC 
 ETC AND EARN MORE GOLD THAT WAY :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarah-1988
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 27, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Score board: out of 100
  
  Graphics: +20 [the graphics are a lot better then World of Warcrafts but it looks exactly like 
 the original one: Guild Wars.]
  Gameplay: +20 [the gameplay is exactly like the first one. I do have to give it 20 points because 
 its pretty well done.]
  Sound: +21 [okay, okay, the sounds are good! Though some of the music might get annoying]
  Value: 
 -5 [For a game like this, $60 is way over. I think it should be about $40 maximum.]
  2 NEW professions: +30 [Sweet! New professions!]
  New Professions are great: -3 [So what? The 
 new professions are really boring! Come on! You can do better than that!]
  
  20 + 20 + 21  5 + 30  3 = 83
  
  Total: 83/100 8.3/10
  
  Comments: I wouldnt say Guild 
 Wars Factions is terrible, but it could be a bit better. I thought it was going to be awesome 
 sadly it was anything but awesome and terrible. Nice try though!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 483paul
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 19, 2006 11:38 am PT
Review:  For those who haven't played the original GW's Prophecies please read my review on that game.
 
  
  GW's Factions is a stand alone "expansion" to the origanal GW's. This game can be linked to your 
 orginal game or played seperate. When linked you get an additional 2 character slots. When not 
 linked you recieve 4 character slots but can't cross between the two games. 
  
  Factions takes place in Cantha. Which is just a click of a mouse away from Tyria on your game map. 
 It has its own story line and adds new skills, area's, armor, and items to both new and exsisting 
 professions.
  
  Its called factions for a reason. In the world of Cantha the people have divided into two sides. 
 The Luxons and Kurzicks. So you and your guild will side with an alliance of one of the two. The 
 pvp revolves around you fighting the other faction. As you progress along you can get faction points 
 for your side and take control over towns. 
  
  They have added titles for characters. This will appear under your name. A title can be alot of 
 things from Canthan explorer to town drunk. Once you do something that has a title it will appear 
 in your stats and tell you how much the certain thing you need to do or enquire to recieve that 
 title. 
  
  The missions are alot harder. I find myself playing each mission multipull times to beat it. AI 
 for henchman seems better but at other times they cause your group to wipe. 
  
  I would say the learning curve for this game is longer. They throw you right into the game and 
 make you lvl 20 in a matter of days. Which is great for getting you right into the action. But 
 also makes alot of noobs lvl 20. So you may be grouping with ppl that have only been playing the 
 game for a few days and not really know what they are doing yet.
  
  The GRAPHICS have been improved and the characters still look great!
  SOUND is the same except 
 the music has changed.
  INTERFACE is the same. 
  
  I feel they did a great job with this game! It is worth buying! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haikiller12
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 1, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  A MMO designed by several team members from Blizzard's StarCraft, Warcraft, Diablo and the Battle. net 
 gaming network. Unique to Guild Wars is a skill-based gameplay system, a social world with each 
 quest spawned uniquely for you and your group, and online play run through a special ArenaNet system 
 to provide absolutely free MMO gameplay.
  Guild Wars takes the best elements of today's massively multiplayer online games and combines them 
 with a new mission-based design that eliminates the tedium of those games. You can meet new friends 
 in towns or outposts, form a party, and then go tackle a quest together. Your party always has 
 its own unique copy of the quest map, so camping, kill-stealing, and long lines to complete quests 
 are all things of the past. Within a quest you have unprecedented freedom and power to manipulate 
 the world around you: your magic can build bridges and open up new pathways, or it can burn down 
 forests and tear the ground asunder.
  You don't have to spend countless hours on a leveling treadmill to get to the interesting parts 
 of the game, because combat is designed to be strategically interesting and challenging right from 
 the beginning. You don't have to spend hours running around the world to prepare for a quest, because 
 Guild Wars allows you to instantly travel to the beginning of any quest that you've previously 
 unlocked. You'll never spend days playing only to discover that choices you made early on have 
 left you with a permanently uncompetitive character, because the unique skill system in Guild Wars 
 allows infinite experimentation but doesn't allow bad decisions to ruin a character. And you'll 
 never meet new players only to discover that you can't play with them or compete against them because 
 their characters are on a different server than yours; in Guild Wars, all characters live in one 
 seamless world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wellman85
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 18, 2006 8:05 am PT
Review:  This is a sweet game with now payment per month. With the added Guildwars Prophecies you can really 
 get the potential out of the game. With a few of your closest friends playing with you online can 
 be a great experience with teamwork and everything that goes along with it. You have the ablity 
 to go through the game showing your best stuff. Pictures of weapons you pick up are what they acually 
 look like, unlike most RPG's. With this game you can form guilds and alliences with massive amounts 
 of people all fighting at once. Mix that with people that know what they are doing and you got 
 one competive battle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jam03
Rating: 10
Date: May 17, 2006 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Last year when I picked up Guild Wars as my first online game I loved it to bits and have been 
 playing obsessively since then. Now Factions is out and yet again I am hooked. The quests are fun 
 and there is around 100X more of them than in the Original. THe missions are so much fun... no more 
 drag missions like the Great Northern Wall - Yay :-) and the new skins are awesome. I give it full 
 marks because it is everything I wanted and more. Seriously go and get it - you wont regret it 
 especially with the no monthly fees so that if you ever get sick of it you can easily go play something 
 else without worrying about all that 'wasted money'. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigspot33
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 17, 2006 2:34 pm PT
Review:  this game is supurb this game is supurb this game is supurb this game is supurb this game is supurb 
 this game is supurb this game is supurb this game is supurb this game is supurb this game is supurb 
 this game is supurb this game is supurb this game is supurb this game is supurb this game is supurb 
 this game is supurb this game is supurb this game is supurb this game is supurb this game is supurb 
 this game is supurb this game is supurb this game is supurb this game is supurb this game is supurb 
 this game is supurb this game is supurb this game is supurb this game is supurb this game is supurb 
 this game is supurb this game is supurb this game is supurb this game is supurb this game is supurb 
 this game is supurb this game is supurb this game is supurb this game is supurb this game is supurb 
 this game is supurb this game is supurb this game is supurb this game is supurb this game is supurb 
 this game is supurb this game is supurb this game is supurb this game is supurb this game is supurb 
 this game is supurb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rikko123
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 17, 2006 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars: Prophecies brought you to the land of Tyria, where you and your friends could duke 
 it out against horrible monsters, people, and whatnot. Factions goes further on this story, but 
 not in Tyria.
  
  No, not in Tyria. Here, we go to Cantha. 200 years ago, the evil Shiro Tagachi (even his name sounds 
 evil, and is evil to write) , a royal bodyguard to the emperor, slays the person who trusted him 
 most, the emperor. It needed hundreds of brave soldiers to take him down, and his scream of death 
 turned the whole of Cantha into a sea of jade. Yup, the mineral. However, in the beginning you 
 dont really see this
  
  The story starts out when you, as a new student to the Shing Jea Monastery, start to study. You 
 are a promising student, and are quickly asked to take an audience with Prime Minister Cho. You, 
 Master Togo and Jijo, another promising student, are taken to him, but at arrival, it seems there 
 is chaos in the palace. All the guards are fighting each other, so you and your accompany fight 
 your way to Minister Cho, who seems to be sickened too, and turns into a huge monster!
  
  Master Togo is very worried about this, and sends you to investigate on the mainland, together 
 with the other students. This plague must be stopped!
  
  Guild Wars: Factions was highly anticipated by the thousands of Guild Wars fans all over the globe, 
 but the length of the story was a total letdown by the die-hard veterans under them. For the story 
 itself, I have the idea its rather deep, but you level up way too quick. Dont be surprised when 
 youre around level 14 - 20 when you leave the monastery, which equals the pre-searing in Prophecies. 
 The excuse for this is the immensely high level of enemies you will have to face. Level 26 enemies 
 arent that rare, you even meet one before you leave to the mainland!
  
  The graphics are slightly improved, together with the speed of the game play. This all requires 
 your computer to be slightly better then it had to be for prophecies, but in my opinion, its worth 
 every penny!
  
  Buy or rent? Easy one: buy, buy, buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genome-Paradox
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 17, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  The on-line game is back with another installment which not only expands the area you can explore 
 but also adds 2 more character classes to play as along with hundreds of new skills for new and 
 old character types , guild wars is now taken to the land of cantha with a oriental type theme 
 taking place this new land is plagued by a new type of disease which can turn normal living creatures 
 into horrible monsters and its your job to find out and solve the problem , guild wars not only 
 has FREE ON-LINE PLAY but has great game play and a unique outlook on gameplay as you can choose 
 which type of character to create you get to choose role playing character which involves starting 
 at lvl1 and working you way up from the bottom to the top through the story lines or you can create 
 a pvp only character which is started at max lvl and maxed out chosen equipment 
  which you can unlock more equipment and skills for your pvp character in the main storyline the 
 pvp characters can compete with players all over the world in 
  many diffrent types of pvp match such as tournaments , 4v4 and many more.
  
  The next installment 
 of guild wars factions also includes a account key to expand your current account with 2 new character 
 slots and even more slot for purchase if you wish to have more.
  
  Guild wars factions also includes thousands of new items to add to your already bulging inventory 
 along with a armies of new monster ready to send you to the mists , factions also adds a tone more 
 skills to combat these monsters in thier destructive path so you can take down them down before 
 they get you.
  
  Guild wars has the feature to create your own guild and sign up new members to join (for a price 
 of course :P) once you and your guild is large enough you can compete on a guild ladder where the 
 best guilds battle it out for victory , factions now gets you and your guild involved by creating 
 territory seizing where you and our guild can "buy out" a town and area to your guild where you 
 will have such special privileges etc , factions also includes that you can "align" your guild 
 with a faction as guild wars factions story line involves 2 fighting factions fighting it out to 
 claim the land of cantha , you and your guild can help these factions to claim land by claiming 
 land in thier name, factions also includes the privalige to create alliances by joining your guild 
 with another guild being able to share guild halls , members , talk channels all in one alliance.
 
  
  Guild wars previously had mission areas where players could cooperate to complete mission goals 
 and advance to the next area in the story , factions now adds even more types of missions such 
 as alliance mission where players fight in a pvp style area where 2 clans fight for victory in 
 order to gain points for rewards and goal completion factions also includes missions that only 
 certain members of a guild can access when you have claimed an area for yourself if this area contains 
 a "elite mission" you can open it to the public or you can keep it to yourself these elite missions 
 contain very hard monster and very rare items! so guilds strive to gain control of these areas. 
 
  
  This game is a real gem to all MMO-RPG fans and is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceteo012
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 17, 2006 3:15 am PT
Review:  The good: The locales are still as beautiful as ever, with towering pagodas and gloomy forest areas 
 really bringing out the mood of the game. Special mention should go to the Jade Sea area, which 
 was very nicely depicted. The 2 new classes play very well and does not seem over or underpowered 
 compared to the existing chars (Although it is pretty hard to get into a team playing as an assassin 
 :) ) . Music is superb as usual, being a Soule production. 
  
  The bad: Some serious lag issues in the main towns, especially Maatu, Cavalon & the Kurzick capital. 
 Critical NPC sometimes get stuck during missions, resulting in a group having to restart. Also, 
 there is a concern, for me personally, how Anet is going to keep the momentum going with its future 
 Guild Wars Chapters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puhhehehee
Rating: 7.3
Date: Sep 28, 2006 5:06 am PT
Review:  Note: This review was made about 2.5 weeks later when Guild Wars: Factions was first released. 
 With consistent updates, ArenaNet have changed quite number of things. Changes are:
  1. you can now buy Amber and Jadite from rare material.
  2. lag issues in some major town has 
 been fixed.
  3. slightly improved henchmen A. I., but still not enough.
  Edited: 09/28/2006.
  
  Guild Wars Faction is both expansion and stand-alone game. It acts as 
 an expansion for those people who own the core Guild Wars prophesies campaign. It acts as a stand-alone 
 those people who started without the core version. This time Factions has an Asian theme, which 
 is a nice change from the core version. It contains 2 new professions (Assassin, Ritualist) , new 
 skills, new monsters, and new location that made turning point to aging core GW gameplay.
  
  Graphics:
  This game has the exact same requirement specification from the core GW. If you 
 ran GW fine, you will have no problem running Factions. I will write this section with the highest 
 graphical settings. Once again ArenaNet did a wonderful job making this version looks as beautiful 
 as the core version if not better. But still lacks on character animation. It looks like they used 
 the same basic character models from the core version.
  
  Sound:
  Once again boring. No varieties and gets old fast. Core GW had boring sound and this one is no 
 different. You will have couple backgroud music throughout the entire game. I have never complained 
 about voice acting from the core version. I wasn't a fan, but it was acceptable. Some of the NPC 
 from Factions has the annoying voice acting that you won't want to hear it again. ArenaNet should 
 consider improving this department for the next version. Sound adds a lot to the game itself. They 
 should realize it.
  
  Gameplay:
  Not much changed. Players will still force to choose 8 skills take. Players will be able to take 
 one elite skill with them. Characters still have level 20 locked. Do missions and quests to advance 
 to the game. Game itself is way too short. I was truly expected a longer game, but no different, 
 it's short and ends too quick. This time around, ArenaNet actually made monsters' A. I. harder, 
 but when players find out the easier way, it starts to fall apart. New classes didn't WOW me either. 
 They are a nice change, but it didn't capture me enough to enjoy them. Getting gold (in-game money) 
 is still hard. Reasons are, monsters don't drop enough gold. When you pick them up, you share with 
 your teammates. If you get 100 gold and have 8 people in your party, you will get 12.5 gold. Players 
 can sell junk items that were picked up during the missions or quests to sell them to the merchants 
 but it's never enough. To craft armors, you will need a lot of materials plus a lot of gold for 
 the armor itself. Now, Factions requires special crafting materials called: Amber and Jadite. You 
 can't buy this with gold instead you will need to earn each side's faction points to get them. 
 Although you can buy from people, but obviously prices people put on these items are not trustworthy.
 
  ArenaNet should balance this. Such as making auction house to ease the players to sell and buy 
 the items they want. People in this game set any random numbers of gold on items that are hot. 
 They put random numbers and start ripping people off. We should have some type of standard value 
 to start with. GW's favorite word: WTS (Want To Sell) , WTB (Want To Buy) . For once, I really don't 
 want to see these words, I really want buying items or selling them can be done without dealing 
 with other players such as player to player trade.
  
  Story:
  I really think, ArenaNet should make in-game story more interesting. Once again it's boring and 
 weak.
  
  Henchmen (Computer A. I. characters that players can put them into the party instead of real human 
 players) are dumber than before. Here's why
  1. They get stuck between the buildings.
  2. Monks (healer) focus more on ressurecting fallen team members instead of focusing on healing 
 on active members during the battle.
  3. They follow the player too slow. If you take a look, they run for a while, then they stopped, 
 then they start to follow you again. If players are running a long stretch path, they will start 
 to notice the gap. Force players to stop and wait for henchmen to arrive to your location.
  Even core GW's henchmen A. I. improved, but all of sudden Factions were getting worse.
  
  Community 
 is getting worse. I see more idiot players than the core version. Maybe ArenaNet decided to make 
 Factions as a stand-alone product that attracted more new players that never played the core version. 
 Or more immature players started to pouring in. When I started core version last April to present 
 before the Factions were released, I didn't have too much trouble dealing with people, but playing 
 Factions, made me think different.
  
  Connection:
  Some of the later towns have massive lag issues. Players can't walk no more than 3 steps and they 
 get lags. ArenaNet yet fixed this problems nor plan to fix at the moment. This is getting pretty 
 annoying considering consumers' point of view. I myself ended up not going into those major towns.
 
  
  Conclusion:
  I liked GW becaused it was free to play, great graphics, and intense action. It still doesn't have 
 monthly fees, but I've read at official GW websites that ArenaNet is planning to release expasion 
 packs twice a year. Considering each copy will have $49.99 price tag, that's over $100 a year including 
 sales tax. It's still cheaper than pay to play service such as WoW and FFXI. But my complain is, 
 if ArenaNet start charging players $100 a year, they really should listen to our complains and 
 make our suggestions into reality to keep the players keep coming back to GW. Original GW was a 
 great game, and Factions still is, but after I saw there were not that many major improvements 
 on Factions, I am starting to have my doubts. I will see a bit more how ArenaNet treats GW franchise 
 before I make my final decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazilla
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 16, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Factions has been somewhat of an on and off relationship gamewise for me. I was completely taken 
 with the first game. This game is a definite departure from the feeling that I had with the first 
 one. It is absolutely more claustrophobic than the original, and it's hard for me to review this 
 game as a stand-alone, and not an expansion. The questing/mission areas for this game are, in some 
 places very confined. If you are using a character that you have already made from the original 
 game in this series, then you start out right in the middle of an enormous city. I mean gigantic, 
 enormous, ginormous if you will. This thrust is what makes for such a stark contrast to the original. 
 If you start out making a character born in Cantha (the continent that is the location of this game) then 
 you will get a taste of what the Original is like i. e., the location is more lush and has the general 
 feel that you had starting out in the original. From that standpoint you will not be hit right 
 away with the tight quarters of the city in Cantha. I recommend starting the game out with a character 
 from scratch for this game. It will help to wet the proverbial appetite so that you can sink your 
 teeth in to the meat of this game more easily. 
  Switching gears for a moment, I have really been enjoying the advanced team missions that don't 
 advance the plot, but offer cool rewards for completing them. Nothing is more satisfying than making 
 the daily, monthly, and all-time score lists and being able to see the standings in game. I love 
 the fact that player created guilds can control certain outposts and affect how the map works in 
 the game. This aspect really adds to the overall immersion level. I am also a big fan of a game 
 in which you don't have to clamor for loot or quests with the rest of the gaming populace. The 
 world is completely instanced for your party, and your party alone. I enjoy that everyone can meet 
 up in towns and guild halls, and leave the competition out where it belongs in the quest/mission 
 areas. 
  When you boil all of this down you are left with a highly competitive (in the right areas) game, 
 that makes great use of Player vs. Player, Player (s) vs. computer, and you vs yourself to see just 
 how great of a hero you can become.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordDeArnise
Rating: 10
Date: May 16, 2006 8:08 pm PT
Review:  One year ago, the first chapter of Guild Wars, the Flameseeker Prophecies, brought an immense world 
 of Player v. Environment, and intense, fast-paced PvPaction to all parts of the world. Every day, 
 players and guilds from all corners of the world fought for cash, for rare and unique items, for 
 bragging rights as being one of the world's best guilds in the game, or holding the Hall of Heroes 
 and tip the favor of the gods of Guild Wars to your home region. America, Europe, Korea, Japan, 
 or Taiwan... whichever your home region is, there's something for everyone. Now add two factions 
 to choose from, the ability to form alliances, and square off with new and dangerous enemies, and 
 you got something to go for in Guild Wars Factions.
  
  The gameplay is still terrific, as it doesn't take much to come up with an ideal set of builds 
 for your style of gameplay, explore the lands of Cantha, and battle all kinds of enemies. Speaking 
 of skills, new skills, both common and elite, has been added to widen the possibilities, as well 
 as new kinds of weapons and armor; some of which require faction-specific materials, which can 
 only be acquired through the use of faction points. The new Canthan sets are nice, fitting the 
 Eastern style and theme of Factions, with some of them already hot commodities by the player community. 
 You can also boast a bit with character titles, provided your character meet the requirements for 
 a title. Those titles can range from exploring Tyria or Cantha, to your prowess in Heroes' Ascent, 
 to identifying gold items, bringing a Canthan to lvl 20 without dying, and so on.
  
  The new forms of PvP are nice too, as it's a battle in Cantha for two key strongholds between Kurzick-aligned 
 players, and their Luxon-aligned counterparts. Guilds can also form alliances and engage against 
 faction-opposing alliances in 12 versus 12 battles. Guild Halls also got the option of using a 
 Guild Lord to add the amenities of a major city for alot of money. However, just about every guild 
 will want a Xunlai Agent, a Merchant, a Priest of Balthazar, and so forth, to fit the needs of 
 the guild. The Battle Isles, as was introduced in last January's PvP Preview Event, is still the 
 place for Random and Team Arenas, plus Heroes' Ascent for the fight for the Halls of Honor. As 
 of the time of this review, Europe controls favor for the longest time, with America following 
 that region, then Korea. Sometimes, a Taiwanese or Japanese guild or team will win the Hall of 
 Heroes at least once. There are also new Guild Halls to see and battle in, although guilds like 
 Korea's War Machine and The Last Pride still dominate as some of the very best GvG guilds in the 
 game.
  
  Two new classes has been added, and anyone familiar with the classes that were added into Diablo 
 2 through its Lord of Destruction expansion will find some sense of similarities here. The assassin 
 is pretty much your ninja with a pair of daggers, capable of wearing armor similar to Factions 
 "cover girl", Nika (sans the purple hair) . Call them anorexic or just small in size, these assassins 
 are lithe and fast, if not as hardy as warriors. Their energy regeneration are that of casters, 
 allowing them to pull off attack combos, shadow arts to heal themselves or cause mayhem in the 
 back lines, or deadly arts for major hexes to enhance ensuing dagger attacks. Then there is the 
 ritualist; a mix between monks and necromancers. Wearing headgear that cover their eyes, these 
 ritualists can use some form of healing magic to support primary monks or provide necessary primary 
 healing and enchantments, use a base of spirits as support for the party, or use channeling magic 
 for a form of smiting. Some ritualists can even summon a small army of necromancer minions to go 
 with the spirits; others go with the "secondary" healing build to support monks. Both of these 
 classes have their array of skills, and capturable elites, plus both of them can visit parts of 
 Tyria -- provided the player has both Factions and the original Guild Wars -- if only on a "limited 
 basis".
  
  The graphics are still fantastic, as players in the Factions world of Cantha will see a mixture 
 of middle-high class Eastern architecture, shanty cubbyholes of peasant dwellings, dangerous sewers 
 and tunnels, the lush lands of the areas outside the gigantic city, the Jade Sea, petrified forests, 
 and Shiro's stronghold. The foes are well-defined for their wickedness, too, as you'll see all 
 kinds of afflicted, Eastern mythical, and human gangs of cutthroats. It's not surprising to see 
 a group of them appear in your tracks and attack, or multiple groups cluttering together to make 
 you and your allies think strategically.
  
  Jeremy Soule and his orchestra did another wonderful job with the music. The music for Factions 
 are Eastern-ish, as you'll hear the Eastern-theme mixture of drums, violins, and so on. Collectors 
 Edition buyers have the luxury of four additional music scores to listen to, although anyone can 
 download the soundtrack at DirectSong and listen to them too outside the game. The voices are well 
 done too, as most of the main characters for Factions carry the Eastern accent, and Mhenlo speaks 
 too in cutscenes. Otherwise, the duo of voices for player characters are carryovers from Prophecies.
 
  
  There aren't much in the way of technical issues; a few quest bugs and glitches that Arenanet seem 
 to have addressed and fixed since the release of Factions. However, the general difficulty of the 
 PvE campaign has been ramped up some, while some quests can take awhile to complete, as it require 
 going to multiple different zones, and through plenty of tough enemies. In addition, what you tend 
 to do for either the Kurzicks or the Luxons, you can't quite do things for the other faction without 
 working yourself neutral to both, so to speak. Otherwise, these things are offset by the fantastic 
 positives.
  
  Both new players to Guild Wars and those coming over from the first chapter have plenty of things 
 to see and do here in Factions. If anything is certain over the last year we have seen Arenanet 
 do for the Guild Wars community, then we can look forward to new content and new areas over the 
 next 11 months, until somewhere down the road in 2007, we see the third chapter in the Guild Wars 
 saga. Until then, everyone will find plenty of things to enjoy in Cantha, and in Guild Wars Factions.
 
  
  ----In Game Characters, all PvE oriented, at time of review ----
  Morrighan Blackrose, Tyrian Minion Master/Battery Necro/Monk
  The Emerald Maiden, Tyrian Barrage 
 Ranger
  Scarlette Sylvanas, Tyrian Domination Mesmer
  Sunn Lian, Canthan Assassin
  Shinzuma Takara, Canthan Sword/Axe Warrior
  Chrysthanthemum Lin, Restoration/Spirit Ritualist 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pete5506
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 15, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Well ok i got this game thinking that it would be as fun as the frist or original game and well 
 it was a little better but nothing bet the origianl but then I would say wait to get this game 
 you may like it at frist but then it just gos down hill fast but i am givin it a 2nd try to see 
 if it is good. I think its good if you are into the game (meaning into it alot) but it was ok for 
 anyone at frist. At the end I would say get it. Thanks for Reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdboomer
Rating: 6.3
Date: May 14, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Bit of a let down. There really is no progression thru the game anymore. You go from 0 to level 
 15 in a matter of hours and then get dropped into level 20 monster areas with crappy armor.
  
  The voice acting is HORRIBLE. Its like watching a old Kung Fu movie where the voices don't 
 match the actor let alone the lip movement.
  
  The game really needed an auction house like WoW. Its a pain in the ass to sell items to other 
 players and the merchants aren't worth selling to. So most times you end up salvaging the items 
 for parts you won't use.
  
  Ok game, but doesn't come close the the original!
  
  Boomer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wilmc
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 13, 2006 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars Factions is the next chapter in ArenaNet's popular Guild Wars series. Factions expands 
 on what made Guild Wars amazing, revolutionary, and addictive. If you've played the original Guild 
 Wars, you can bring in your character form Tyria over to the new continent called Cantha. If you 
 brought a character over from Tyria to Cantha you immeadiately feel a difference in landscape and 
 the overall feel of the game changes dramatically. If this is your first Guild Wars game, players 
 (newbs) tend to catch on very fast and within minutes you get used to the smooth controls. With 
 can Asian style theme, Jeremy Soule does a great job with the music, and the Arenanet designers 
 did a wonderful job with the game's visuals. As you were expecting there is a considerable amount 
 of new gear as Guild Wars lacked the amount of gear that most MMO players expect. The gear is mostly 
 all asian looking that follows the new asian theme. Now the one thing most people are asking, how 
 are the 2 new professions? I've played both of them, the assasin is an easy character to pick up 
 while the ritualist is definately nothing you've ever played before. Factions seems to give you 
 more of a PvP (player vs. player) expirience as the game is trying to force you to level your character 
 up faster than int eh last game. In Factions you will level faster and have to endure a lackluster 
 story with disappointing acting. Everything you know and loved about the first Guild Wars is brought 
 back into Factions, but more PvP intended. Guild Wars had a great PvE (player vs. Enviroment) , 
 if you're trying out Guild Wars for the first time i would say buy the original first as it doesnt 
 rush you while leveling and creates a better PvE expirience. Factions is well put together and 
 is still an awesome game, which would have gotten a higher score were it an expansion. Faction's 
 is shorter than Guild Wars, but it doesn't seem to matter as its more PvP oriented anyways. With 
 over 1 million players hooked on this game with more expansion and players to come who wouldn't 
 want to catch in on this new Chapter in Guild Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TurtleMilk
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 12, 2006 8:37 pm PT
Review:  As most of you know, Guild Wars: Factions brought out tons of new content to blend in with the 
 original game. The most obvious of this new content is the two brand new character classes, the 
 Assassin and the Ritualist. Both of these are balanced quite well and serve their own unique purposes.
 
  
  It also brings an additional 25 skills per current profession - this addition will ensure that 
 I don't get bored of my Elementalist/Monk. Along with these new skills, there are also three additional 
 sets of PvP armor, and another brand new set for the other continent. Of course there's new items 
 as well; these items also include things such as credits which are little tokens that can be exchanged 
 for various goods.
  
  Another obvious addition to Factions is the Alliance battles. There are two factions in the game 
 - the Luxons and the Khurzicks. Guilds have the ability to ally themselves with either of these 
 factions, and then fight for control over the gameworld. As you win or lose control of various 
 areas, each side has access to various features. For example, Guilds have the ability to take over 
 outposts, and if they do, they may get something unique such as an Elite mission to do or a Fireworks 
 vendor. It's not possible to completely dominate one side, either. The more you progress into enemy 
 territory, the more neutral it becomes.
  
  This style of gameplay blends in quite well with PvE. If you are a part of the Luxons and decide 
 to travel to an area, you might see that it was taken over by the enemy. No longer can you use 
 merchants there, or gain access to some of those quests. Enemy guards will also attack you on sight.
 
  
  Unlike the original game, the PvE content tends to be more challenging. The skills which bosses 
 use are more devastating and the AI has been improved quite a bit. The PvE content tends to be 
 more in-depth as well. Combat takes place in several various locations, my favorite being on rooftops 
 which are inside a massive city. It is there that you see civilians innocently living their lives, 
 only to get ambushed by a gang of thieves. Guards struggle to keep order in the streets, and a 
 huge plague is invading, attempting to take it over.
  
  Understand that Factions is no expansion pack. It is a stand-alone game, and one that you should 
 be close friends with.
  
  Guild Wars: Factions could be summed up as the original but with a different, Asian-styled theme. 
 Yet do not exclude the new classes, items, skills, monsters, and various other features such as 
 Alliance battles. Guild Wars: Factions is all about the word "more." It's surely worth getting.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: liraelrocks
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 12, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  When I first started Guild Wars, I was amazed by awesome gameplay and graphics. I spent all my 
 time on the game and finished it in three months. Since then, I've been looking forward to the 
 expansion pack. When it finally came out, I was a little disappointed but I was stilled entertained. 
 I like how they added the two professions (assasin and ritualist) to make this more like an oriental 
 like game. The graphics and scenary are still beautiful and I like how they make it harder to kill 
 the monsters than the original game. Although this is still an awesome game, it is easier to level 
 up and the maxxed level is still 20. Overall, this is still an awesome game with great graphics. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heatha
Rating: 8
Date: May 12, 2006 1:09 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars Faction is the stand alone "sequel/expansion pack" to the the first game by ArenaNet. 
 Factions, just like it's predecessor, is an innovative Action RPG. This time around, Factions takes 
 you to far off Canthan where the hero, you, has to fight the infected, while trying to save an 
 empire. Team work is emphasized this time around; be it in a 16 player team or the whatever might 
 have you. Never let your guard down, or you will find your face in the dirt.
  
  The Good: Beautiful scenery makes for awesome travels, and can even provide you will lovely wallpapers 
 for your computer. Similarly, the soundtrack for this game is awesome (Jeremy Soule) , it makes 
 battling foes feel epic, while traveling along feel tranquil. New armor, new weapons (New green 
 weapons -- Green weapons are considered elites) , new foes to slaughter, new Guild halls to crush 
 opponents in, and lets not forget the two new classes: ritualist and assassin. 
  
  The Bad: The Guild Wars community has been asking for a lot of stuff over the past years, the GW 
 team claimed they would implement some requested features, but failed. There is no additional storage, 
 no improved from of trading, i. e., an Auction House, no improved way of finding parties, and various 
 other features. In addition, the voice acting is horrible and the story is somewhat boring. 
  
  Conclusion: If you want a fast-paced Action RPG that has killer PvP, look no further. Guild 
 Wars Factions will definitely quench your thirst for blood. Guild Wars Factions also has NO monthly 
 subscription which makes this game a GREAT value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuglynewbian
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 11, 2006 9:42 pm PT
Review:  the guild wars universe has made another addition. even though this is the so called "expansion" 
 it is a stand alone game. but it is best to buy both copies for maximum enjoyment and keep you 
 playing thegame for a long time. the gameplay is not too different from the regualr guild wars. 
 do quests for exp, gold and do missions to finsih the game. choose from 8 class combination and 
 you can also choose the "secondary profession" to boost your character. the pvp is also great, 
 with now alliance battles, guild wars has difenetly shined on the pvp area.
  the graphics is still the same but now based on the more asian theme culture which is good. the 
 graphics of guild wars is still in the top for MMOs. 
  the sound has improved a bit and but stil the same you would expect from a rpg like game.
  guild 
 wars factions is definetely a game you should purchase, and its a game where you don't need to 
 invest much time to have fun and be competitive. also ITS FREE AFTER PURCHASE!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desanvium
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 10, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  If you know anything about the GW series, I'll skip the basics. What you want to know is: is it 
 good. Yes. But there's a snag. It's is not an expansion in the technical sense of the word. This 
 does not require the first game in order to play it. Therefore it is a stand alone game that just 
 happens to have the ability to link up with the original GW. But the real snafu is that this expansion 
 pack comes with a full game price tagwhich begs the question: am I getting my greenbacks worth?
 
  
  Maybeif youve never played a GW game before. But most likely not.
  
  Granted, you get a ton of new spells for the current classes. You get larger scale GvG and Faction 
 warfare. You get two new classes that result in a combined 54 class combinations (each character 
 you create gets a primary and secondary class) . And you get a whole new continent. But it all seems 
 overly deja-vu-ish. The game asks you to forget that you've played a GW game before and focus on 
 this new game like it's radically different.
  
  But it's really hard to do that...
  
  With all the good in it, the music tells you exactly what you are playing. The badly written cutsceens 
 with the (still) non-moving mouths make the game feel like the rejected first cut of a KotoR game. 
 The costumes are Chinese themed, but the worlds are still super-path based. And, despite all efforts 
 to the contrary, it is still the most difficult MMO to feel "mmo-iee" about. Forming a party is 
 a super-clumsy affair, due in no small part to the clumsy chat system and the "guild-centric" setup 
 of the game. Basically if you're not in a guild... and you have minor coin... you're going to have 
 a hard time getting to the higher level content.
  
  To NCSOFT's credit, the game is beautiful. The music is expertly crafted and woven into the Asian-themed 
 environments. The areas feel alive and are as varied as those in the first game. The two new classes 
 (the quick and super-damage-dealing assassin and the spirit wielding ritualist) are very well balanced 
 and don't rub elbows with current classes. And, lastly, the quests are very well designed and the 
 game does it's best to help you out so as not to become "gray-hair" inducing. 
  
  But do not expect this game to be something totally different or a game that perfectly integrates 
 itself with the original game... because it's neither. The people who are going to get the most 
 from this game are the new GW players that did not lay out 60 bucks the first time around. The 
 rest of us... might feel a tad gypped.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Handsome2max
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2006 4:08 pm PT
Review:  IF YOU LIKED THE ORIGINAL GUILD WARS YOUR GONA LOVE FACTIONS. THIS GAME BLEW ME AWAY. IT WAS EVEN 
 BETTER THAN THE FIRST, WHICH IS PRETTY HARD TO DO. IN FACTIONS THERE ARE 2 NEW PROFESSIONS: THE 
 ASSASSIN AND RITUALIST. THE ASSASSIN IS LIKE A SUPER FAST WARRIOR. IT USES TELEPORTING ABILITIES 
 AND MELEE ATTACKS. THE RITUALIST IS SORTA LIKE A NECROMANCER WITH A MONK. INSTEAD OF RISING BONES 
 FROM THE GROUND, IT BRINGS SPIRITS. IT CAN ALSO BE A SUPPORTIVE ROLE, LIKE A MONK, WITH HEALING 
 SPIRITS. THE GAME STARTS IN A WHOLE NEW CONTINENT CALLED CANTHA. THERE ARE ALL SORTS OF NEW ENEMIES, 
 NEW PETS AND MANY MORE. THOUGH THIS GAME IS A STAND-ALONE RPG, IF YOU ADD IT TO THE ORIGINAL GUILD 
 WARS, THE POSSIBILITIES WILL BE ENDLESS. I HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS GAME. IT HAS NO MONTHLY FEE LIKE 
 WORLD OF WARCRAFT, WHICH DOESN'T EVENT MATCH UP TO THIS GAME. THIS GAME IS REALLY WORTH YOUR WHILE.
 
  
  AND IF YOU DON'T HAVE THE ORIGINAL, CHECK OUT MY REVIEW ON THE GUILD WARS PAGE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katya2010
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 10, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  Really good game... there are so many people who play on this its ouragouse anyways its really 
 fun i give it an 8.3 good graphics and horable sound though but still fun =) the only thing that 
 i think should be changed about this game is that it is only online ... they should make it were 
 you can play single player and not jsut multi. i have owned this game for awhile and it kinda hard 
 to lvl. good thing its not to easy at some parts other wise it would really suck.... anyways yet 
 again ill say its a good game... sound needs improvement 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwlettsome
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 10, 2006 8:17 am PT
Review:  Guild Wars Factions is a good but not great continuation of the game.
  
  Let's start with the positives. A large and interesting world to explore with a multitude of quests 
 to complete with a more generous allotment of experience and gold then in the first Guild Wars. 
 There are a larger number number of ways to make your character stand apart through a wider selection 
 of armor types. The gameplay is challenging and immersive.
  
  But the game falls short in a number of areas. First, the game pushes you very quickly to level 
 20 which is the level cap. Gold may be a little easier to come by then in the first game but it 
 will still be difficult for new players to accumulate the cash needed to properly manage their 
 armor, weapons and skills. No in game auction system has been implemented so the amount of in game 
 sales spam continues to be very high in major towns and conversely if you want to sell something 
 yourself be prepared to spend a fair amount of time unless you use an auction outside of the game. 
 Next, because only 2 new character classes were introduced into the game the vast majority of players 
 from the onset are of those two classes. This may balance over time as more players bring in other 
 characters classes from the previous installment or additional players join the game and chose 
 the original character classes, but at least in the short run building a balanced pick up group 
 for questing or missions is either extremely time consuming or impossible. This is probably the 
 single greatest failing of Factions because the very structure of the game forces the player to 
 seek out balanced teams with real players vs. henchmen (NPC's) . Again this may balance out over 
 time, but seems like an serious error by Anet not to have seen this one coming.
  
  Additional shortfalls include the storyline execution, it's an interesting story, but told in such 
 a way as to seem too much the afterthought and the entire guild system continues to be weak. For 
 a game that calls itself Guild Wars, it is much too difficult to find a good guild. Each player 
 will have slightly different things that they are looking for in a guild, unfortunately there is 
 no good way to find out whether you are in a suitable guild for you or not unless you join one 
 and try it out. A simple guided system for players looking for a guild would not be that difficult 
 to implement and would help match up players and guild more effectively. The current system is 
 an exercise in blind luck and/or persistence.
  
  I'm rating the difficulty of this game "hard" due to the effort involved in questing with pick 
 up groups and/or henchmen (NPC's) once you get out of the initial introductory area and also because 
 finding and mastering the skills/weapons/armor to truly become an advanced player of the game requires 
 a fair amount of time and effort. The casual gamer can play and enjoy this game indefinitely, but 
 for those what want to excel in PvP or understand all the naunces of their character class the 
 challenge is sufficient. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriangleHard
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 9, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars has unintentinally misled peole (can't say few or many because i don't know) 
  
  First, it's called Guild Wars, but shouldn't guild be group of merchants and crafters? When I first 
 heard the name Guild Wars, I thought there will be intense crafting thanks to the name. 
  
  Anyway, another thing about Guild War is, that there is nothing really special about it being free 
 online service. It's practically same as Diablo 2 in a sense, with little upgrade and nice disguise 
 to make it not look like one. 
  
  Instead of chatting rooms, they put towns. Which is upgrade thanks to trade NPCs being there and 
 all, but if you strip it down to the basics, this game is practically Diablo 2. 
  
  IF you go down to the bones.
  
  However, Guild Wars Faction has enough meat to make quite a 
 difference with previous online RPG sensation, Diablo 2.
  
  Before we get into that, let me make this clear. THIS IS NOT MMORPG. NOT EVEN CLOSE. The beauty 
 of MMORPG is that you are all trapped in one world. You will always feel the presence of the others 
 in MMORPG because the world is not just yours only, but thousands of other people. In Guild Wars? 
 The world is yours, unless you let others to join. 
  
  In other words, you won't see other people when you are fighting in the fields unless he is in 
 your party. Like Diablo 2, you entering the battle field equals to creating a room for yourself. 
 The party members you have is like getting invited to the room you created. This isn't bad, nor 
 it is great. It is nice to have no hassel of others bugging you farming or anything like that, 
 but the problem is you also won't see any others who will help you when you're in trouble. The 
 biggest point of MMORPG is having that virtual society. That's why its massive, because you can 
 never really get seperated from other players. Guild War feels quite detached from other players 
 most of the times. 
  
  So think of Diablo 2. Don't compare it with other MMORPG like WoW or FFXI because it's like saying 
 FIFA is better game than MLB series. Yeah they are both sports games, but they are not related 
 to each other enough to be compared. 
  
  Let's get down to the game itself then.
  
  Guild Wars Faction is beautiful game in terms of graphic. Technically, it isn't that great, but 
 the style they use and designs are just remarkable. The world can be bright and beautiful in some 
 areas and dark and gritty in other areas. Overall, it is world worth exploring and this is a huge 
 world.... which brings some problems. 
  
  The world being large is great and all, but once you log out, you MUST re-enter the game from a 
 town. you can instantly go to any town you previously visited, but there still is quite a distance 
 to cover if you try to walk. This is certainly frustrating especially because the enemies are quite 
 vicious. They will attack fearlessly even though their level is much lower than yours. So low that 
 you won't get experiance points. You have to fight your way through these annoying monsters to 
 proceed, but they can still overwhelm you and kill you by massive numbers. Not cool at all. 
  
  Monsters are quite a problems in this game. Very much like in Diablo 2, you will most likely 
 get outnumbered. Also these AI has some wits so they won't die just standing there. If you use 
 area based magic, they will run away or move out. If you do it right they won't but it becomes 
 quite a hassel to get it right, which makes these powerful area based magics quite useless because 
 they also happens to have long recast time and heavy mana cost. 
  
  The battle is quite similar to first Guild Wars. There is 8 skill slots you can fill with many 
 skills you get to learn. You will get to learn your main class skills and sub class skills. It 
 is quite similar to the idea of FInal Fantasy XI, except it doesn't work as well. Final Fantasy 
 XI gives the players plenty of flexibility with the jobs to mix and match, but in Guild Wars, the 
 choice is permanent. If class match isn't working very well, you must start all over. 
  
  The new professions are quite interesting. Assasins look pretty damn cool, and is becoming popular 
 class quickly. But unfortunately, it doesn't feel that different from other classes the players 
 previously had. Most of the skills are variation of skills that was already there before. Feels 
 like Warrior mixed with ranger with some extra stuff. In a way, it feels too similar to assasins 
 in Diablo 2. Close ranged weapon but they shouldn't really be in close range. I'd have to say it 
 might be one of more challenging class of the game. 
  
  Ritualists are the other class that is newly made for this game. It's spooky how similar they are 
 to Druids in Diablo 2. Just about every character in Guild Wars seems to be 3D verions of Diablo 
 2. Not to mention, this game also controls quite similar to Diablo 2 as well. If you played Diablo 
 2 before, it will take very short time for you to get used to this game control. besides few variation, 
 like first person shooter like movement control that is optional, Guild Wars is basically what 
 you would think Diablo would be if it was in 3D. Even the style of skills seems similar. It's certainly 
 not a bad thing. After all Diablo battle system is proven to be good and this just makes it better 
 by adding auto run, auto melee attack, direct movement control with keyboard while also having 
 the option of point and click. It's all great.
  
  However there would be some problems. First the battles are fast and quick. You must think on your 
 feet fast or you will die fast as well. Unlike other MMORPG like Final Fantasy XI or Matrix Online 
 or just about anything, the battles are very vicious like Diablo 2. However, Diablo 2 had way points 
 and town portals to make experiances like that less frustrating. Guild Wars has some frustrating 
 death pentalties. 
  
  First you don't lose experiances points. Which is good. But you DO lose percentage of your max 
 life and MP. This isn't permenant, but when you try to go through a mission, one death might make 
 the mission impossible. You can go to town to become normal agian, but once you do, you gotta do 
 the mission all over again, meaning walking down the same path, killing same monster (since they 
 respawn if you exit to town and they won't let you just walk by them) and then hope to see you 
 have better luck this time. If not? walk back again. 
  
  Of course Guild Wars is meant to play with other people, but if you do, you get some hefty experiance 
 points penalty. frustrating. 
  
  Still, leveling is over quickly. It isn't the main point of the game anyway although it will take 
 you longer than most RPG. PvP is the main focus of this game and that's something MMORPG doesn't 
 provide as well and it's something DIablo 2 never provided as well. For a big change, the characters 
 are balanced. 
  
  It isn't balanced to say 1on1 the better one will win. some classes have it hard against some types. 
 Like mesmer would completely destroy elementalists/necromancer. I know because my friend was mesmer 
 and I was elementalist. 
  
  However, different classes in a party would make it into very balanced fight even if equipment 
 lacks a little bit. Skills can cover for lack of equipment unlike most other games. Think of playing 
 Starcraft, but instead of army, you control single unit. It's like having medic, firebat, and marines. 
 you are one of them and each has to work in harmony to win. 
  
  Unfortunately, it sounds great on paper but it really isn't as great. It doesn't have full control 
 like action game, nor does it give you enough time to put a tactical aspects together like RTS. 
 Also unlike MMORPG PvP, you can't show off your uberness of equipments you earned (or bought) . 
 It has all the elements of those in this game, but none of them are able to surface enough to shine. 
 It mixes well enough to function well techinically as a game, but it never brings the bang of entertainment 
 like those games. Sometimes it is best to specialize in one area instead of being medicore in all. 
 
  
  Guild Wars Faction is stand alone game. However, often it ends up feeling like expansion and was 
 overpriced. The classes you can created in Faction is 2 while the first game had 6. that's 1/3 
 worth of game! Well classes alone don't make the game good, and Faction does provide enough new 
 content to be good stand-alone, but clearly this game isn't meant to be alone. Fighting for territory 
 is one fine aspect of this game though. It really makes PvP worth much more than it was before. 
 I never really cared too much about PvP because I'm not very good with hands and eye cordination. 
 I don't want my rear handed to me so often, but when the theme of taking territory came, now it 
 see some reason why I should fight, which makes things so much more interesting. 
  
  Guild Wars is solid game. It looks great, sounds great, and plays good. I haven't really noticed 
 story being good, it is very much slapped together. It still has better story than MMORPG, but 
 it's not MMORPG. As online RPG, I find Diablo 2 story more compelling, but that is my personal 
 opinion. Still, even when I see it objectively, the story isn't something that would blow anyone 
 away. It will still entertain you no doubt so I guess that should be good enough. 
  
  For the ones who enjoyed Diablo 2 or Baulder's gate, this is definitely for you. For those who 
 want the feeling of MMORPG but don't want to pay monthly fee? Sorry this isn't your answer, but 
 for free? I guess it is closest you can get to besides Maple Story (if it's still free) Those who 
 like action games, this also isn't for you. those who like RTS? this is for you only if you like 
 to micro manage each units instead of sending army and watch them obliterate anything in the way. 
 For MMORPG fans? the lack of community or the abilities to group everyone together to journey together 
 will eventually make you miss your old MMO. It shouldn't be considered to replace any MMORPG. If 
 you are trying to quit MMO addiction however, this game would certainly help. In the end, Guild 
 Wars is plain ol' good fun. Just don't expect the depth of virtual world like in MMO and you will 
 enjoy it most likely. It is currently the best online RPG out there and who knows? this might be 
 the last online RPG ever thanks to the growing trend of MMORPG. Join the Guild Wars. Just don't 
 expect it to be what it isn't. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phazor58
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  The first Guild Wars was one of the best games in the RPG world. It was one of the few games to 
 challenge World of Warcraft's fanbase. But now with Factions coming out, there are so many new 
 types of missions and skills, it's almost like a whole new game. 
  
  The new assassin and ritualist classes fit in very well with the other classes. They've already 
 found there way into PvP and PvE content of the game. There are so many possibilities with both 
 of them, especially the ritualist.
  
  I would have given it a higher score, but for one minor flaw. The AI on the henchmen is pretty 
 bad. They don't use their skills very well at all, especially ressurection. But hey, that's where 
 the other 1 million or more gamers come in to play.
  
  This is THE game to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtastickman
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 9, 2006 1:54 am PT
Review:  Being a long time player of the orignal Guild Wars prophecies campaign, I, as with many other members 
 of the community, expected alot from Factions. I am a member of staff on a recognized Guild Wars 
 Fansite (guildwars gameamp) , so if you are to listen to anyone's review of the game, listen to 
 mine! =D
  
  Firstly, the game is packed with new features, they dont call it an expansion pack, but a whole 
 new campaign, and I believe they have every right too. Besides the 2 new classes: The Assassin 
 ( A deadly, stealthy ninja class ) , and The Ritualist ( A strange, mystical class who can control 
 spirits) ; there are also alot more new features, including a new Factions system, where players 
 must form Guild Alliances, and ally themselves with 1 of 2 warring factions, and then battle against 
 each-other to control outposts on the map; it's a great new idea, but sometimes it is poorly executed, 
 as frequently people leave when losing, and they will incur no penalty (unlike WoW for instance) . 
 Alliances can then control outposts that their Faction 'owns' by players transfering faction points 
 to their alliance, the more points, the better the outpost, controlling an outspost gives the alliance 
 the ability to spawn parades and fireworks, and also gives them acces to that outpost's elite mission, 
 which houses wickedly tough mobs, and great treasure. My only concern with this, is that hardcore 
 guilds will dominate the map, leaving small guilds out.
  
  Another new feature is the Challenge Missions, where two random teams from opposite factions, race 
 to complete certain objectives before the other team, while this is a great idea in concept, sometimes 
 it can be impossible to find a group for these teams due to an in-balance of people in either faction, 
 and there being no-way of carrying on with other buisness whilst waiting in some form of queue 
 (again, they need to take a leaf out of WoW's book here) .
  
  Once again, the level cap in the game is 20, this works well, and the time before reaching level 
 20 does feel like a training period which is great, it takes focus off of grinding, and more onto 
 playing the game, which is fine by me. However, new Factions characters experience a very steep 
 learning curve when visiting the main Urban area in Cantha for the first time, when the level of 
 the mobs increases sharply; this needs to be adressed quickly.
  
  The new continent of Cantha is very beautiful indeed, snow capped mountains, beautiful green valleys, 
 petrified forests, a solid sea of Jade, and sprawling urban, city areas. It is asian themed and 
 houses alot of new monsters true to that theme, including demons and assassins and much much more.
 
  
  Music again, as with the first campaign is awesome, composed by the very talented Jeremy Soule, 
 the music fits in with the themes and scenery perfectly; the sound effects for the new spells are 
 also a nice touch.
  
  The PvE content itself is traditional Guild Wars fayre, Missions with lots of enemies that can 
 be cleared in around 15 mins or so, I believe there are 15 new missions added in Factions, and 
 I know that some people on our website completed the main story within a day or so of release, 
 to be honest I wasn't suprised by this, as I always thought the PvE is Guild Wars is a bit dull, 
 I was also disappointed by the lack of dungeon like areas with huge bosses that take a fair amount 
 of time to take down, but never-mind.
  
  PvP, as with Guild Wars Prophecies is where the game shines! Without a doubt, Guild Wars has the 
 best, and most accessable PvP in an Online-Roleplaying game. You can play the game, without having 
 to do PvE at all, simply choose your classes and armour/weapons and your character will be made 
 automatically at level 20 with access to all the PvP content in the game.
  
  As of around January, all the PvP content in the game was moved to a chain of islands called the 
 battle isles, these isle are accessable to those who own any GW campaign, and they house many different 
 areas, including the Guild Hall (A place where you and your guildies meet up, and initiate Guild 
 Vs. Guild battles) , Random Arenas ( A place where random 4 player teams are formed and battle it 
 out, great for a quick fight) , the team arenas (4 vs. 4 where you get to choose your team) , Hero's 
 Ascent (Where the ongoing Guild Wars tournament goes on, to battle for control of the Hall Of heroes) , 
 and various other meeting outposts, and training areas.
  
  The reason the PvP is so great in guild wars, is because gear and grinding, play so little, the 
 unique skill system forces players to be tactical, meaning that competitive PvP is fun and challenging.
 
  
  The new PvP content added with Factions includes new Guild Halls, Arenas, and the Alliance battles, 
 what is interesting to note is that the new Guild Halls and Arenas are available to all players 
 of any campaign, which is a nice reward for those who dont want Factions yet.
  
  However, Arena Net may have added some nice features to the game, but some existing aspects of 
 the game that were annoying to Veteran players, and will become apparent to new players; still 
 remain unchanged and the most bothersome of them all is the trade system.
  
  Trade: The Guild Wars trading system is aweful, players have one channel to try and sell their 
 goods, they do this while having to compete with the numerous bots and farmers spamming the channel; 
 this makes it near impossible for the casual player to sell his/her items, and since the game lacks 
 trade-skills, the casual player is left with very little money at-all. Although Anet have promised 
 trade improvements for months, we still havn't recieved them... The game desperately needs some-kind 
 of auction system.
  
  Overall, the game is a nice additions to the series with alot of nice features added, but some 
 of them are poorly executed, and other old problems need to be adressed quickly. The PvE is quite 
 short, not what i'd call 'epic' with lacklustre boss fights and short missions, it's very much 
 the same old system in a new environment. The PvP is simply great.
  
  Pros:
  
  -Beautiful New scenery
  -Great PvP
  -Nice New classes
  -Same great skill based gameplay
 
  -less grind
  
  Cons:
  
  -PvE is same old, disappointing stuff. Not very 'epic'
  -Old problems need to be adressed
  -Problems with new features need to be adressed, and balanced
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luoluo
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 8, 2006 10:43 pm PT
Review:  While I loved the original Guild Wars, the drab, destroyed and dreary world post sundering was 
 just depressing to me to play in. The Asian-inspired game world of Cantha in Factions is infinitely 
 more appealing to me and has a breathtaking aesthetic balance that is really satisfying to roam 
 around in. Plus, I'm Chinese, so it's nice to see my own ethnic heritage reflected in such a positive 
 way in a game. Also, there are some nice tweaks to Factions that make the game a little more accessible 
 (e. g., you can trade Monastery Credits earned from successful quest completion for some of the 
 more expensive items such as high-end armor and expert salvage kits that you had to buy or wait 
 to drop in the original GW) .
  
  Because I cannot count on being able to play on a regular basis, having no fees is a real plus. 
 Also, while I really like World of Warcraft, the drain of dealing with player personalities and 
 drama in the fantasy MMORPG world setting can be taxing after a long day at work, where I already 
 have to deal with a lot of people/politics. In GW (both versions) , I can still accomplish group-oriented 
 missions by just "hiring" henchmen from the town and not deal with the hassle of recruiting and 
 coordinating other players. 
  
  VERY dangerous game - I started playing on a Friday and was playing the darn game all freaken weekend!!!! 
 Only wish: that it was easier to travel between the Tyria and Cantha continents. You really have 
 to quest a bit before the traveling option becomes available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darknight20
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 8, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  Factions it is said to be stand-alone expansion pack of Guild Wars, but personally for me guild 
 wars player since the first Guild Wars in third beta event. I must say Factions is not recommend 
 for beginner at all unlike in Guild Wars you start out in a peaceful Kingdom of Ascalon (aka. pre-searing) , 
 you will slowly build your level up by doing quest and killing some creatures, for most average 
 players level up to 8 then leave pre-searing and move to the post-searing which is the storyline 
 begin. Most of people do not need worry about leveling up to 20 max until like you reach 60% of 
 the storyline. Where as for Factions as soon as you left the Shing Jea Monastery all the enemies 
 you'll encounter from level 0 to level 12 enemies so quick. It didn't take you no more than 3 missions 
 away from encountering level 20 and above enemies. Although leveling up in Factions is much quicker 
 than in Pre-searing due to the high experiment reward points you will get from doing quest. For 
 most part of the mission in Factions are almost impossible to do it with henchman. As far as the 
 storyline goes, it was interesting but the number of mission that has to offer was not as many 
 as the original Guild Wars had to offer.
  
  Thing I like the best about Factions was of course more new place to explore, more new missions, 
 and more new weapons.
  
  Thing I like the less was the same old problem with henchman, problem like henchman can easily 
 be body block by your enemies plus they always fall behind even when you are running at normal 
 speed, Skill balance that weaken some profession skills like mesmer and ranger, and new mod change 
 caused previous perfect mod value down to almost nothing, it was good thing to change some of the 
 mod to deal more damage and more chance to hit but this kind of change should have made around 
 the time when the original Guild Wars released already, now they changed after one year later which 
 result in serious loss of value of most players whom is buyer or seller.
  
  Overall I enjoy playing Guild Wars a lot but this game can be a lot better if some of the problems 
 I mention is fixed now and some problem is fixed earlier like skill/mod change in the first released 
 of Guild Wars. Beside the henchman problem there is still many other glitch in the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ken2ng
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 12, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  I'm an avid Guild Wars player. I've clocked over a thousand hours in the original and I would probably 
 clock a lot more if life permitted. Anyways, around a week since its release, I've already clocked 
 100 hours of the game. Anyways, this review is mostly geared towards those who have played a fair 
 amount of the original Guild Wars.
  
  ================Graphics, sound===================
  
  Graphics wise I would say its an improvement but it really looks the same except the fresh 
 new locals. In otherwords, amazing
  
  Soundwise, the game provides no real improvement. Suffice to say, it does its job. In otherwords, 
 about the same (except the music is a bit more dull this time around)
  
  
  
  PvE.
  -------
  Well its been a while 
 since I did any PvE in Guild Wars. Much like the original, PvE offers enough content to keep you 
 busy for a while. There are plenty of locations to explore and skills to capture. 
  
  Probably the best way to put it is that PvE is only good once. One time through the game can be 
 done relatively quickly if you want to do all the story missions and it takes a lot longer if you 
 want to complete all the missions (a REAL long time)
  
  The main gimmick of PvE this time is choosing a faction. ANet really split the community apart 
 in this because a lot of people seem to get really heated over which faction is better. Honestly 
 it almost seems like all the good players have migrated over to the a faction and all the rest 
 have gone to another. (the kurzicks in my opinion) So what does the alliance mean for you, the 
 player. Well not only can you choose an alliance, all the NPCs on the other alliance won't do business 
 with you. Its an inconvenience to be honest. 
  
  Another improvement are titles. These are just things you collect as you accomplish certain tasks. 
 Some require you to perfect all the story missions, other indicate how experience at PvP you are. 
 Its a nice way to know how your character is progressing.
  
  Overall, PvE does serve its purpose in telling a fairly weak story through fun and challenging 
 missions and quests.
  
  PvP. 
  -------
  Back the the meat and potatoes of the game. Now from changing the PvP enviroment completely by 
 adding two new professions and lots of new skills for each existing profession, what does this 
 game have to offer? Well a lot. 
  
  First. The alliance battle. This game is awesome. Basically its 3 teams of 4 vs 3 teams of 4. This 
 game is like Team Arenas and Guild Battles made sweet love and made the Alliance battle. Its easy 
 to set up and the control points on the map making the four team experience have a Guild Battle 
 quality. This is something the original Guild Wars sorely needed.
  
  Second. Competitive PvE. This is just like PvP except its only accessible by our PvE characters. 
 These maps are really cool. For example, one such mission is where one team defends a fort for 
 a period of time while running out and gathering materials, while the other seiges the fort attempting 
 to kill an important NPC. Its really fun stuff. The first time I defended the fort, I felt like 
 I was defending Helms Deep (Lord of the Rings, watch it) The only downside is that there are only 
 2 of these maps to play on so the choices are limited.
  
  Again, a word to the wise, if you decide to play this game MUCH depends on how good your guild 
 is and considering how 95% of guilds are NOT good, take your time when joining one. (if you have 
 friends playing with you, the more power to you)
  
  =============Complaints and warnings.================
  I've been thinking about this a long time 
 and really this game is tough... PvE is only good once, as i've said. So PvP... its hard. There 
 are soooo many skills that even though you don't use, you have to know about if you are going to 
 succeed. And as more and more releases come out, that problem is only going to get worse. PvP has 
 a VERY steep learning curve.
  
  
  Guild Wars in the end is a game of strategy. If you want to spend hundreds of hours in game and 
 out of game learning the intricacies of a balanced strategy game, you will have a literal blast 
 in this game. Nothing is more satisfying than building up your character and sending him/her into 
 successful battles then this game is definitely for you. Personally, I go nuts over both the strategy 
 of the battles and the customization of the characters that I take into them.
  
  If you are interested in soley in the PvE content. This game, although is worth the 50 dollars, 
 is overshadowed by many other MMORPGs (WoW) and other single player RPGs (Oblivion) . 
  
  So, know what you are getting into when you purchase this game because the rabbit hole is DEEP 
 (with 2 expansions a year and multiple skill balances in between, the playing field is everchanging, 
 so be ready to adapt to new strategies a LOT) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: animationj
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 8, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  I will be the first person to tell you, I have spent too much time on Guild Wars. And you will 
 too, because any MMO fan should drop their subscription and head over to this superb game. Everything 
 is finely done in these games, Graphics are probably the best found in an MMO, Gameplay is simple 
 but deep and addictive, and no monthly fee will keep you playing for months to come. Let's break 
 the game down a bit:
  
  You got 6 basic classes in original GW (Warr., Monk, Ranger, Elementist, Necromance, and Mesmer) . 
 And in Factions you cann aadd to more classes (Ritualist and Assasin) . From this huge selection 
 of classes, there is something for everyone.
  
  The quests are what you would expect, and co-op (Epics I like to call them) quests are really fun 
 and add a layer of story and depth to the game. There are so many quests in the game, so you wont 
 be bored. 
  
  Over all, this game should not be missed, and the lack of a monthly fee really makes the purchase 
 worthwile. I CAN RECOMMEND THIS GAME TO ANYONE!!! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowGryphon
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 8, 2006 12:38 am PT
Review:  I'd like to point a few things out to those who've tanked GW for not being a good MMO.
  Well, there is a reason it's not a good MMO......... it's not an MMO at all.
  GW is, in Anets 
 own words, a COMRPG (Competative Online Multiplayer RPG) .
  
  It's not made for ppl who like to grind, it's made for ppl who want to form guilds and battle. 
 GW is gearded towards PvP and everything you do is designed to build your character up for just 
 this reason. this is also the reason the lvl cap is stuck at 20 and why monsters that you battle 
 will never go above lvl 30.
  The fact that we don't have to pay to play is a huge selling point for many of us, as well as the 
 fact that we don't have to deal with PK-er's and drop/kill thieves.
  
  It's about team work.
  
  With the advent of factions, 2 new facets have been added that I would 
 like to touch on...... alliance battles and guild alliances.
  
  Alliance (or faction battles) allow for very large, on going "world battles' between various allied 
 guilds and factions (kurzik and luxon) . The winning faction/alliance's also gain perks for being 
 the victors.
  
  Then there is the one thing I really liked, Guild alliances. This allows various guilds to band 
 together, permanently or temporarily .
  
  If you try to compare GW to MMO's you're bound to fail, because GW isn't an MMO, it is really in 
 a class all it's own...... and I prefer it this way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baselerd
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 8, 2006 8:57 am PT
Review:  This game, simply put, is amazing. It is one of the most accessible, yet one of the deepest online 
 rpg's I have played to date. 
  
  When I bought this, I had the typical "expansion pack" (i. e. this is technically not an expansion) 
 skepticism. Would it simply be more missions, areas, items, etc. and a gimmicks like alliances? 
 Nope. This is another quality title which not only has the standard aforementioned add-ons, it 
 brings so much more into the Guild Wars universe. The amazing thing about this game is how easy 
 it is to pick up and play, but how deep the games systems go. A relatively casual gamer can pick 
 up this title and enjoy it thouroughly, whereas hardcore gamers can really learn the inner workings 
 of the game and compete in pvp that is probably (this is a bold statement) one of the deepest and 
 best balanced of any online rpg ever.
  
  The new gameplay features, which include alliance battles, new pvp modes, 2 opposing factions that 
 players allie with, competetive missions, challenge missions, 2 new classes, and elite missions 
 really breathes life into the game for gamers who were becoming sick of the original. There is 
 much more high level content, which gives players better incentives to keep playing, whereas in 
 Prophecies the options were basically limited to the Hall of Heroes, Guild Battles, and farming 
 (trying to get that oh so wonderful fissure armor.)
  
  The world itself is not as big as the original as far as land mass goes, which was kind of a bummer 
 to me until I played it. This game takes much longer to complete than the original and there is 
 much more content crammed into it than the original. 
  
  The game is also more difficult than the original, and the story missions more varied and interesting. 
 In Prophecies pretty much every mission boiled down to get from point A to B and kill stuff. In 
 Factions, you will find yourself protecting turtle convoys, fighting in 16 person parties against 
 waves of dozens of enemies at once, defending objectives, and of course traveling from point A 
 to B. 
  
  The story, I believe is much more intruiging than the original plot. However, the voice acting 
 is pretty bad, with awkward pauses in dialogue and odd voices (Imagine the dragon Glint from the 
 original) . The music is good and suits the game well, although there will probably be no tunes 
 here you will be listening to for your leisure listening.
  
  The graphics are slightly improved over the original, it now supports newer shader models, but 
 the only visual improvements I have noticed are higher polygon counts on screen, mainly the environments 
 and some more interesting spell effects. Also, there are typically many more enemies and allies 
 on screen at once than in the original. 
  
  In conclusion, if you liked the original at all, pick this up definitely if you are becoming sick 
 of the content in the original, or just want to play some new stuff. If you are a fan of rpg's 
 I would recommend this as well, although some people complain about the level cap, so if you prefer 
 kiting for hours and hours to level up for months straigh, I wouldnt recommend this game. Its high 
 points would be the great pvp, replayability, graphics, and fun and varied gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kangwoolee
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 6, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing!!
  I have Guild Wars: Prophecies and Factions is amazing.
  Great graphics and gameplay. You could play forever and never get bored. 
  Sound should have 
 been better but its still great
  Want a game get Factions
  The game has so many values.
  Its not as great as WOW but this game fills those need you get from a MMO
  FOR NO MONTHLY PAY.
 
  they have constant updates and the servers never lag.
  Their updates are crazy fast and they make the world alive with great people online.
  You could 
 play for hours on.
  This game is a game with skills, you dont have to play for hours upon hours to beat other people 
 on PVP unlike WOW.
  WOW you need to spend hours to get lvl 60 
  but after that your the BEST
  in guild wars theres challaenge, lvl cap 20 so....
  you get lvl 
 24 dragons to still meet your height of power.
  its amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gr33nHippo
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 6, 2006 7:07 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of the original guild wars, and i must say that the second chapter is even better. 
 
  
  Graphics: Same looks overall, but the asian theme makes it much more captivating. More details 
 have been put towards the environment with beautiful scenory. Landscapes with mountains, fields, 
 and bodies of water never looked so amazing. A lot of the regions look like areas in japanese anime 
 shows. When you play this game you wont be able to stop looking at the vivid environments. 
  
  Sound: same sound as original, not much new. 
  
  Gameplay: Anet continues to put its stress 
 towards skill and not time spent on gaming, which is in my opinion the right move. It is much easier 
 to reach level 20 in this game, but it has its purposes. There are a lot of quests/missions to 
 complete. PvP is extremely fun, especially if its 8v8 gvg. Guilds can fight other guilds any time 
 they want. And a new feature to this game is the alliance battle, where alliances ( groups of guilds 
 ) fight other alliances. If you have a merged account it adds new depth to the game since u can 
 transfer your characters between the worlds.
  
  Value: SO MUCH TO DO!! This game will keep you busy for years. There are 4 character slots (6 if 
 merged) and mine are all fun since i cant get enough of this game. PvP and transfering characters 
 between the two worlds provide endless value to the game. 
  
  Tilt: Once again theres no monthly subscription! 
  
  I recommend this game to anyone who owns 
 the first guild wars. If you dont have the first one, get them both now!! It is worth the money, 
 and there is no monthly subscription. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onidragon999
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 6, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  The GW world just go bigger and better. While the first one rocked my socks I personally like this 
 one better. The original game just didn't have as much per square foot. Probably my favorite parts 
 of this addition are the alliance battles. Not only can you jump right into them, but they are 
 very enjoyable. Another feature I like is the 8 skills at a time skillbar. It make it to where 
 your character is diffrent from the rest of the crowd, in other words it adds customization to 
 your character on top of his/her looks. Recomended for any RPG/Adventure videogame fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshtheboss
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 6, 2006 1:42 pm PT
Review:  
  Guild Wars brought something new to the online gaming genre last year by offering to do something 
 no other game had done, offer free online play. Sure it may have been devastating, but fans quickly 
 caught on to the action/rpg style of gameplay and have been steadily growing over the past year. 
 With the release of Factions, not only does Arenanet gives fans more of what they want, but they 
 do it in an extraordinary matter.
  
  Factions takes place in a world called Cantha, a new place brimming with Asian beauty. After participating 
 in the short tutorial you find out that a plague has broken out and is killing helpless citizen 
 all around Cantha. After discovering that an evil warrior named Shiro, who died hundreds of years 
 before, is behind the outbreak, you go on a quest to uncover the origins of who killed Shiro all 
 those years ago and devise a plan to defeat him again. At this point in the game you meet two faction 
 groups, the Kurzicks and the Luxons, who both had a hand in defeating Shiro. While the Kurzicks 
 honor loyalty and innovation, the Luxons rely on strength and honor. It is up to you to decide 
 which side you inevitably choose to join an alliance with, as your allegiance will help in controlling 
 the massive worlds. After choosing your respected side you will continue the main story by earning 
 faction for your alliance. As more faction is earned the land is divided accordingly by who has 
 control. This is where Alliance and Faction battles come into play. Alliance battles can feature 
 up to 16 players per team, each fighting for a piece of faction. After one side becomes victorious, 
 the line which separates the two factions sways, showing the new boundaries between the territories. 
 The line never really falters, and choosing one side over the other is based entirely on personal 
 preference. If you do happen to join one of the winning teams and you compete in an Alliance battle, 
 than you are rewarded with Elite missions, which offer substantial amounts of experience points 
 and prizes. Not only do Alliance battles give PvP the thrill of full-scale war, but RPG players 
 have a chance of participating in the rare missions as well. However, Alliance battles are not 
 required in order to gain faction for your desired side. If PvP is simply not your thing, than 
 you could try your hand in selected Challenge missions. These new missions are basically a race 
 against the clock, either by defeating a selected number of enemies or reaching said destination 
 in the allotted time. If you manage to complete your goal, your side will gain faction and the 
 team will earn rare goodies.
  
  Essentially Factions offers more to Guild Wars players than Alliance battles. What makes Guild 
 Wars Factions so enjoyable is perhaps the ability to create your own unique character. From the 
 get-go, you are prompted to create your own custom character, whether you choose to tackle it out 
 in the storyline or delve straight into the PvP mode, the character development process still remains 
 the same. Once your basic appearance is set at hand, the next task has you picking your characters 
 class. Overall, depending on which class you choose to make your character, there will always be 
 one class that will be better and worse than it. This type of strategic decision leaves the game 
 open for anyone, and doesnt neglect Factions to become only a single player game. Perhaps the 
 biggest addition to Factions are the two new character classes, Ritualist and Assassin. While the 
 Assassin can deal massive amounts of damage in nearly shorts amount of time, they have poor defense 
 and require almost non-stop protection for success in battle. Ritualists tend to base their role 
 on support, summoning spirits in battle to help fight or giving allies selected effects to help 
 boost their attack or defense. Along with the previous six, players will have the ability to choose 
 from eight classes to give their character, all ranging from melee fighting to healing. Each class 
 has nearly 75 different skills to choose from, and once you pick your secondary profession the 
 total can rise to over 150. This gives the player an incredible amount of strategic playing, as 
 only eight skills can ever be equipped at one time, and choosing the right skills for the job can 
 always be a make or break decision. As you progress through the storymode, your character will 
 level up. Although the max level cap in Faction is 20, the game does a great job of focusing on 
 teamwork, as most of the enemies in future locations are leveled higher than you. Leveling is done 
 much faster in Factions as in the previous game. While the original game has players doing nearly 
 20 hours of the storymode before they reached level 20, Factions players can achieve that goal 
 in a mere 3 or 4 hours. Although some may find this rather unnecessary, it acts as more of a tune-up 
 to the players in the original game.
  
  If you have the luxury of owning both games, than you have the ability to travel to both worlds. 
 Once you reach the required city, you can than travel from Cantha to Tyria, or vice versa, at will 
 by using the click of the mouse. Essentially, when original Guild Wars players bring their players 
 over to the new world, they already would have been max level, with all of the best weapons, armor, 
 and skills. The fast leveling in Factions offers new players the chance to play alongside these 
 hallowed veterans, and not be cast aside as some outsider. As stated before, Factions relies heavily 
 on teams. There is not one class that dominates all others; so naturally organizing a well-balanced 
 team is part of the fun. However, if human people sometimes are ineffective for you, there is always 
 the option to ally yourself with the AI controlled henchman. Although the hench have been notorious 
 for being slightly stupid, they have been upgraded rather nicely in Factions. There are some minor 
 bugs with the hench, like the warriors who will run ahead and cause all the enemies to attack you, 
 or the healers who heal themselves before anyone else, but overall it is nothing to drive you away 
 from using them. Once you engage in battle, it is up to the team to fight together to take down 
 the enemies. 
  
  After finally picking a team that best suits you, it is time to venture off into the world of Cantha. 
 Once entering the world you will be amazed by how massive and adventurous it seems. Truth be told, 
 it is a massive world, nearly two times the size of the land in the original Guild Wars. But that 
 beauty and size is hampered once you start traversing to the towns and outposts. Some of the locations 
 look ironically similar, as well as the enemies. Although there are plenty of new enemies to spruce 
 up the action, all of the new ones seem to be used entirely too much over and over again. This 
 can be a huge drag as you travel from city to city trying to focus on the new sights. The biggest 
 letdown would have to be the cutscenes in which the main story is told. Although the story is well 
 performed and gets to the point, the visuals seem to take a back seat here and are not as broad 
 or enriching as featured in the game. The same can be said about the enemy encounters. Things run 
 fairly smooth throughout, and only stutter occasionally when there are groups of enemies all attacking 
 at once. It is also hard to say that some of the voice acting in the game is sub par at best, which 
 is a shame considering how grand and enthralling the soundtrack is.
  
  Still, these minor annoyances are more of a setback in accordance to the overall scheme of things 
 in the game. Factions basically tells you to you to join a guild throughout the game, which is 
 more or so required in later parts. Guild can be found almost anywhere, and there is always someone 
 recruiting in some of the major towns. The guilds are essentially the key point to the high-end 
 battle featured in Factions. While the battles consists of up to 16 people, two guilds can join 
 together fighting on the same side. Guild battles focus on individual glory, while Alliance battles 
 focus more on faction and global domination. Even if you stubbornly dont like teaming up, you 
 will find that being guild-less in a game like Factions is something that will not last long. 
 
  
  Guild Wars Factions not only gives longtime fans a taste of something new, but it allows newcomers 
 to jump right in and start playing. The Ritualist and Assassin classes do an excellent job of breaking 
 up the mold from the first game, while the Alliance and Challenge missions offer the chance to 
 engage in new forms of combat for your desired goal. With all of the new things brought to the 
 table, Factions will no doubt have longtime gamers, as well as newcomers hooked for a while. Plus, 
 there are no monthly fees which should help in decreasing your social life that much more. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: graeme2005
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 6, 2006 9:31 am PT
Review:  After being a true fan of everything about Guild Wars (even naming all the bosses which had elite 
 skills) the day finally arrived. No, I didn't pe-order it. Although I wish I had now, due to all 
 the nice bonuses those lucky people got when they pre-ordered, rather fascist of Arena Net.
  
  Gameplay (7/10) : Um... yeah, the game has taken on a more... oriental tone to the original, suppose 
 it would be racist to say I don't like it, it's just different. The combat interface is all to 
 familiar to anybody who has played the original Guild Wars. The 2 new classes that are available 
 are ok, although 99% of new people (including me) chose the assassin as a starter profession. The 
 ritualist and its skills are quite wierd to be honest, so not many people chose that to start off 
 with.
  
  You start off on an island by the way. This is the tutorial for the whole game. After that, you 
 are swept to the wretched mainland where you're probably only lvl 12-15, and you have to fight 
 level 20 monsters. The game here loses it's steady progression. Henchmen are lvl 20 before the 
 third mission. Too overwhelming, and damn-right hard!
  
  There is also the factor of previous skills that were on the original Guild Wars. I don't know 
 if you've noticed that for some skills Arena Net have just changed the name of them, probably to 
 make them seem new. Although hardcore Guild Wars fans like me saw straight through their crafty 
 little tricks. Some amazing skills that inspired people to use them all the time have been removed, 
 others have just been nerfed back to the stone-age.
  
  (P. S I hope Arena Net aren't going to get rid of farming!)
  
  Graphics (9/10) : Like the original 
 Guild Wars graphics are good as always, apart from some minor hitches here and there, but ah well 
 you can't hope for everything.
  
  Sound (6/10) : I loved the theme tunes of the original Guild Wars, but these new sound tracks of 
 Cantha just take the biscuit. Theres no excitement or happiness to the music unlike the original, 
 should have kept to the same sounds. Other than that, combat and voice acting sounds (few of which) 
 are reasonable.
  
  Value (8/10) : Again, the policy of no monthly fees stays true to its word, good. However you may 
 feel like you've blown 29.99 on this expansion if you already own a copy of the original Guild 
 Wars.
  
  Tilt (7/10) : The game, in itself inspires me, sometimes.
  
  So here's my review on Guild Wars Factions. My advice would be: If you're new to Guild Wars entirely, 
 buy factions. However if you're unsure about buying it when you already had great times with the 
 prequel, you're just like me. I'm not saying don'y buy it, just read what me and other people have 
 said, and think about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodreaverSlut
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 6, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  Here is my review on Guild Wars: Factions.
  
  I have played GW (Guild Wars, Prophecies campaign) for over 1500 hours. To be honest, i couldnt 
 care less about the PvE, has it changed in factions? You bet it has.
  
  In GWF (Guild Wars: Factions) , you again play a hero that has to save the continent of something 
 horrible. With the standalone expansion (YES it expands the original, NO you do NOT need GW to 
 play GWF) a whole lot of stuff is added and you deffinatly feel that they have improved in many 
 many ways.
  
  a quick overview of features:
  - new Guild Halls
  - new continent (Cantha) 
  - new missions
  - new mission system
  - new reward system (for 
 missions)
  - tons of new items
  - load of new enemies
  - 2 new professions
  - new alliance system
  - new PvP content (alliance battles)
  - and more
  
  To start ill 
 begin with the PvE part of the game.
  With GWF you can chose to either create a new character and start in Cantha or take your "old" 
 character from Tyria and bring him to Cantha. I recommend to make a new one, because the new "newbzone" 
 (starter area) is very good. You chose your primary profession and you get the basic idea of the 
 game by following the little quests. When you get in the first town, they actually go on about 
 advanced tactics, like snaring, kiting, combo attacks and more. This is not just a great improvement, 
 it also shows the new people that there is a LOT of tactics to this game.
  So much for the starter area, lets head for the main PvE area. 
  This time, you feel much closer 
 to the story line and it is better put together. When in a cinematic (loving them) you dont see 
 any lipsyncing, but you do see a lot of emotes, which you can do aswell ingame. This makes the 
 conversations look "real", a very good improvement compared to GW. 
  The missions are also challanging in a new way: time. The faster you complete a mission, the better 
 the reward you will get. The rewards are: standard, expert and master. Each gives XP (increasing 
 from standard to master) , gold (also increasing) and a skill point (1 for each) . So if you complete 
 a mission in record time, you get the standard+expert+master reward. Not only is this for rewards, 
 but also for honor. Since there is a timer at the end of the mission, you can easily make a screenie 
 and post it on a forum and see who is the best in the entire community of GWF. Other missions are 
 challange missions, these require you to get as many points in a certain amount of time. The best 
 thing about this, is that the best 10 runs are saved, this means that the score will be shown by 
 the "records master". When talking to him, you can see which team had the highest points today, 
 all time and this month. There are also rewards for the winners. Infact, everyone attempting this 
 is rewarded with gold and XP (the longer you last the better ofourse) .
  The PvE story is also quite interesting, though something pretty similar happens again in GWF, 
 but im not spoiling that for anyone.
  
  The questing system is also nice, the quests are actually interesting to do and the rewards are 
 quite high (high XP, some gold and credits) . Though lots of these quests means running around a 
 lot, they remain fun to do and that is a big plus!
  
  The GvG hasnt changed much in features, except the new halls and skins for some NPCs. The biggest 
 impact on GvG (actually PvP as a whole) are the 2 new classes: assassin and ritualist. With the 
 new professions there are 56 combinations for your professions only! On top of that the new professions 
 have about 75 skills each and all the existing professions got extra skills aswell (some are duplicates 
 of existing skills, reason is vague: they want you to use 2 of the same skills...) . In total, there 
 are 90 new elite skills, all good in there own way. With all the new possibilities... it's just 
 incredible, the amount of "builds" is beyond human reach.
  A new PvP feature is the Alliance Battle (AB) . ABs are battles for territory. On the map of Cantha, 
 you can see who controls which cities. The fact is that 2 factions (which is what the GWF refers 
 to) , the Kurzick and the Luxon, are at war. They struggle for territory and control of towns. The 
 Alliances with the most standing get to control a city. Giving new possibilites to the PvE people 
 with new "elite missions", these are the hardest missions in the game and the best rewards. 
  Though this sounds very promising, the battles are not that awesome. In the beta weekend it was 
 a 12v12, now they changed it to 3*4v3*4, which limits the battles. The game doesnt support team 
 talk (to all 3 parties) , so it's hard to communicate with them (since they are other people and 
 you cant make a 12 man team at the start) . The only way to communicate is via local chat, this 
 means that the enemy can read it aswell... which comes down to: Not a wise decision Arenanet. So 
 the ABs arent that great unless you manage to get a 12 man team of all allies in a group, all able 
 to talk via vent, TS or another communicationsprogram.
  
  All in all, it is a great game, though the ABs arent what they couldve been. Knowing ArenaNet, 
 they will change those game machenics so that is a lot nicer to play them.
  Is GWF better then GW? i think it is, the PvE is more interesting, the new missions are fun and 
 the professions bring a whole lot of options for nice PvP battles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidleader
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 5, 2006 8:01 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars Factions is the sequel to last years hit Guild Wars and it makes the original proud. 
 Though it is mostly instanced it never feels like it as you will always run into NPC's, Humans, 
 or Events that change the pace of the game. It has a great story (though it may be a little slow 
 at some points) . Well here is my review in which I hope to convice you to turn from those evil 
 monthly fees.
  
  Graphics- Amazing..... simply put. It looks just under Oblivion graphics wise but has much less 
 demanding system requirements. The enviroments are well populated and pretty. (Authors Note: I 
 run Guild Wars on the highest graphical settings)
  
  Sound- Very Good, it has good music with very good enviromental sounds (birds chirping, combat 
 noises, etc.) .
  
  Gameplay- Very Good. Standard MMO combat with a twist. You can only have 8 skills equipped and 
 it forces you to have the right skills for the job. Should you bring Traps or Death Magic? It feels 
 like a form of turn based Phantom Dust. But be prepared as if your not in the right frame of mind 
 when you play you may run into a bit of the MMO grind. This is different in PvP though as human 
 players use different tactics and the battles can always change in the heat of the fight.
  
  Value- AMAZING!!!
  No literally..... it's amazing, it's FREE! Well almost 50 dollars upfront 
 and youve got unlimited access to the game, 4 character slots, all in-game events. It really cant 
 be beat MMO value wise. 
  
  Well those are just the reasons that this is one of the best MMO's available. Hopefully by now 
 you will atleast consider getting this game and ditching those monthly fees.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaosMasta
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 5, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  When I was playing guild wars I really got into it and then i stop playing. Now I've got it and 
 it is just as addictive as the first. The new character classes are the assassin and the ritulist. 
 I've only played as the assassin class and I must say there pretty cool. The game is a little on 
 the real real ez side in the begining but some later mission will seem impossible. Guild Wars Factions 
 plays like the frist. So what, thats not always a bad thing because the first worked well. The 
 missions are alot of run to this place kill somone run back and get xp. Or run somewhere and meet 
 up with someone and then travel with them to kill someone. This seems boring on paper but once 
 you start making parties of 9 or 6. It gets pretty kool traveling wit ppl.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: League727
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 5, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  I've spent about 10-15 hours playing Guild War Factions and it is great. It does a lot of things 
 right that other MMO's don't. Every armor merchant is customized specifically to your character 
 and race so you dont have to go nuts trying to barter with someone to buy some off of. The environments 
 are great and attractive. The graphics are so much better than other MMO's. They are a lot more 
 realistic and sharper. So many Skills too little time there are over 300 skills in the game!!!!! 
 I mean come on don't you think thats a lot. One of the things i was going to touch base on was 
 that the max level limit is level 20 and i'm already level 13 and i've had it for 4 days.... So 
 does not take as long as other MMO's do to level up tho.... So that sort of got me a little shakey 
 but I've come to realize that that really doesnt matter :) ...
    
::::::

::::::
UserName: gangguard
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 5, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  This game is near double as good as the first game, the no-monthly fee is a charm, the creative 
 game mechanics are innovating and its community is like none seen before. Guild Wars didn't get 
 popular advertising, but by player to player information, i personally know the game by a friend.
 
  
  The first GW game was amazing, it had near no Technical difficulties even with Modem 56k and the 
 minimum required graphic card. The way where you combine professions is a new creative thing, they 
 only make 6 professions but the possibilities are endless. The guild battles, arena battles and 
 PvP tournaments were fantastic and the PvE side of it was done very well. But what Guild Wars really 
 missed out was, Decision, Choice, Alignment, now Guild Wars Factions has exactly what it needs, 
 bringing other things that players wanted in the first game, one versus one duels, Assassins, large 
 battles and last but not least your decisions doesn't only affect your world but everyone's world, 
 you fight, the territory is your Faction's Globally!
  
  I recommend this to everyone who played the first game and those who love RPGs and MMORPGs or even 
 casual gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AcydRaine
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 4, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  
  Gameplay:
  
  First of all, there are two new classes being introduced into the game, which are assassin and 
 ritualist. Both classes are cool. However, for the time being, assassin is weak when go to the 
 frontline to battle the enemies. Although assassin has an advantage of teleportation, it still 
 do not give much advantage to those who plays as assassin due to the low health and hence, when 
 you teleport to the casters, you are bombarded with spells and unlikely to survive. Ritualist are 
 cool class, it summons spirit to its aid and casts weapon spell to aid their ally. The design of 
 both characters are cool as well.
  
  Anet has improved the pve aspect of the game where there are better quests and mission are fun 
 to play. However, due to the fact that the game just launched and possility of lack of beta testing 
 of the game, this mission and quests are buggy. It is very frustrating when you have spend a whole 
 lot amount of effort on a mission only to find that the mission was bugged and you cannot complete 
 it. Besides that, the difficulty of the game has increased from the previous chapter. Now, you 
 gain level faster than the previous chapter and hence exposed to high level mobs faster. This may 
 prove to be difficult for the newbies to take time to get acquainted with the game and the henchman 
 is not really helpful as they are quite buggy as well comparing to the first chapter. Occasionally, 
 the henchmen, instead of assisting you, it might cause trouble. Despite of the fact, it is also 
 good to add that the type of hencemen have increased comparing to the previous chapter where the 
 type of henchmen available is more limited.
  
  There are additional features added now to the guild. There are services available which you can 
 buy for your guild hall like storage, merchants, etc at quite a high price. Besides that, there 
 are additional guild scrimmage added to the guild hall where you can hold pvp session with your 
 guild mates and have fun. This is good as you can learn from each other during the pvp section 
 and have practice while getting familarized with yourself to the terrain of your guild hall that 
 might aid you during gvg session with other guild. Moreover, there are guild alliances added into 
 the game where you can form alliances with other guild and visit each other's guild hall.
  
  For the pvp aspect of the game, additional assassin and ritualist gives more combination of 
 classes and skills that leads more builds available. For me, assassin gives more mobility and ritualist 
 skills are more defensive. Besides that, there are also alliances battle that available now where 
 you can participate in 12 vs 12 battle. Right now, you need to form 4 person team before you can 
 join in the alliances battle which is frustrating because you need to find people and due to the 
 lack of people in the arena (so far i encountered, maybe due to my log in time) , it is difficult 
 to find group. Moreover, the lack of punishment to the game leavers also impairs the experience. 
 Moreover, the point that you must accumulate in the battle which is 500 is too much as the battle 
 is draggy and long. Besides that, instead of making more original skills, anet has copy the skills 
 from the original chapter and change its name only. This causes some of the players feel cheated 
 (for those who play Guild Wars: Prophecies) as they are promised to more new skills and yet what 
 they only get is duplicate skills, not to mention there are also original skills. But it is not 
 enough.
  
  The reason that i give 9/10 to the gameplay aspect is that i feel that the idea behind the gameplay 
 is still there and have improved from the original but poor in implementation.
  
  Sounds:
  
  The intro music was good. However, when i play in game, i almost cannot hear the 
 music unless i turn the volume to the max. Although the background music is not suppose to interrupt 
 the gaming experience of GW: F players. However, for me, the background music is not doing well 
 comparing to other games where it is not interrupting and yet make the gameplay experience more 
 enjoyable.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The environment is a wonder to behold. I like the city map. However, it is really confusing as 
 i was constantly surrounded by high building and walk in small corridor. However, as i say, it 
 is a wonder to behold. The details are amazing. The design of the weapon and armor is good but 
 for some classes, the design is weird looking. Besides the city map, the jade sea and the echovald 
 forest are also a beauty to behold. Of all, i think anet really do the best job in graphics. The 
 original Guild Wars's graphics are already good. However, in this game, it is even better.
  
  Value:
  
  Well, Guild Wars is famous for its value of the game. This game is definitely 
 worth every bucks that you spend on it.
  
  Overall:
  
  I know i have not covered all aspects of the game. But i just want to give an idea so far i have 
 on the game. On the whole, i feel that this game is good and innovative as they gives features 
 that we never seen in other MMO. However, the learning curve is too steep for new players and due 
 to the lack of beta testing (just my thought) , this game is ridden with bugs. I am looking forward 
 for anet to patch the game as soon as possible to let us to enjoy a more stable game.
  
  -AcydRaine 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummerguy519
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 4, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  This is an excellent addition to an already great game. Factions has more enthralling and interesting 
 environments and characters than the original. New classes Fit in very well with the original set 
 and are extremely fun to play as. Only downside right now is nearly everyone in Cantha is an Assassin 
 or Ritualist so sometimes creating a good party is hard. That will surely change when the novelty 
 of the new classes wears off. The new look for all of the prophecies professions is also very cool. 
 It makes for a lot more diversity between characters when you see someone from cantha in tyria 
 or vise versa. It's simply a very fun game whether you're in an amazing guild or just playing for 
 the fun of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jon1669
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2006 7:46 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Well after putting a bit of time into this game id have to say they did a pretty good job with 
 the expansion imho
  
  I really enjoy the 2 new classes, and i do prefer the look, style, and feel of the new areas much 
 more so then the original guild wars
  
  From the gameplay side its basicly the same as the first with added content ( it is an expansion 
 all tho u can play it without the original) . After spending 120+ days on wow i did get into this 
 game a little late an did have some trouble getting into the first guild wars, but for some reason 
 this game hooked me alot. Maybe its the new classes that suit my style or maybe its the better 
 imo looking areas.
  
  graphics- hmm id say they slightly improved them but it basicly looks close to the same
  
  
 really imho u cant go wrong with this game its a blast to play (u see tons of assassins but they 
 are fun to play:) . Also dont forget its free to play! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spenta
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 3, 2006 9:10 am PT
Review:  This review is mostly for people who played the original. If this is your first Guild Wars experience 
 I'm sure that you will find this game to be very fun, have great graphics tied with a wonderful 
 soundtrack and should allow you many hours of very enjoyable gameplay.
  
  If you have played the original it kinda feels a little to much like the first one. I just dont 
 feel like anything is different this time around except for the two new classes which are bit dissipointing 
 personally.
  
  I still believe the game looks awesome, sounds great and generally is still pretty fun to play 
 but its getting old much quicker this time around and I wish they had added some new features to 
 keep the second time arounders a litle more interested in the long haul. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonshadow14
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 3, 2006 4:35 am PT
Review:  Good game nice graphics... It's worth your money....
  The Levels are nice and the quests too, many kind of quest's in a huge world. The classes are also 
 good, you have different classes with all kind of spells, weapons and armors. Just play it and 
 you will see!!! Check out the trailers and you will find out how it is. The monsers are also easy, 
 you can level up verry fast and you will find new items were you can get stronger.
  No Montly Fee's!!!! That's also a good thing of the game. You don't have to buy cards. Install 
 and play forever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: googleboy87
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 3, 2006 2:26 am PT
Review:  MY FIRST EVER REVIEW
  
  PROS; TWO NEW CLASSES, NEW SKILLS, NEW AREAS (I LOVE THE URBAN CITY AREA LOOKS GREAT, NEW ITEMS, 
 NO ONLINE FEES, EASY TO PICK UP LIKE INSTANTLY, AND LOTS OF LITTLE TIB BITS SUCH AS EMOTES (DANCING) , 
 COMMANDS ( TYPE /AGE AND YOU WILL SEE HOW LONG YOU HAVE SPEND PLAYING GW, FOR ME I AM A TOTAL OTAKU 
 IVE SPENT OVER 560HRS OF COURSE LOTS OF PPL HAVE DONE THAT TOO AND MORE!!)
  
  CONS: THE ENVIRONMENT COULD BE MORE INTERACTIVE FOR EXAMPLE THE URBAN CITY AREA NONE OF THE BUILDINGS 
 ARE INTERACTIVE, IT IS THERE JUST FOR LOOKS, SOME OF THE QUESTS REQUIRES LOTS OF RUNNING BACK AND 
 FORTH SOME OF THE QUESTS EVEN REQUIRE TO TELEPORT BACK AND FORTH BETWEEN TOWNS, DOESNT IMPROVE 
 ON THE CONTROLS BUT I AM NOT SURE WHAT NEEDS TO BE IMPROVED, STORYLINE IS NOT AS INTERESTING AS 
 THE FIRST ONE AND LASTY THE NPC AI HAS IMPROVE MUCH THEY SOMETIMES JUST IDLE ARE IF YOU ARE WAITING 
 FOR A RES OR THEY GET STUCK SOMEWHERE ONLY TO REALIZE WHEN YOU ARE DEAD
  
  - ALL OVERALL STATEMENT, IF YOU LIKE THE FIRST ONE YOU WILL LIKE THE SECOND ONE, IF YOU NEVER HEARD 
 OF GUILDWARS I SUGGEST YOU TO TRY IT ,IT IS LIKE DIABLO TWO BUT MUCH BETTER.
  
  -GB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clan_Master
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 2, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  I have played the original and found that to be really fun until your buddies leave you. This one 
 is probably the same deal. If you have friends and they are willing to play as much as you, get 
 this game now because there is something about the quests that is just not there unless you share 
 the experience with a friend. Out of all the MMORPGs out to date I have heard the most comparisons 
 between this and WoW. I would say that the two games have their trade offs. The one thing about 
 WoW is that (besides instances) you can basically do it all yourself if you are good enough. In 
 this game I find myself always getting into parties or else I am dead in five seconds. I guess 
 it is just what you are more interested in. If you want to have a fun time with your friends this 
 is your game, otherwise don't bother.
  
  The last thing about this is that it really grows on you. For both these games I found myself really 
 liking the game after I play it a little more. The quests seem to keep more variety than many MMORPGs 
 (for instance one of the quests you have to kneel and plant seeds.) so you don't find yourself 
 doing the same thing over and over. One thing I wish though is that they made the original jobs 
 better. The new ones are good but the old ones are the same. Basically the old stuff works, but 
 everyone is the new stuff so having diverse PvP parties becomes an impossibility.
  
  Technically this thing is a beast. The sound and graphics are immaculate and I am amazed at how 
 smoothly the graphics run on just about any computer. Props to Arena Net for making a simply solid 
 game over all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teh_kai
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 2, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Great adventure game, good online game.
  just plain great if u have a friend that has it and you can play together.
  this game is hard, 
 only maybe 2 out of 5 quest ur going to die 2 or 3 times trying to do it, but it doesnt kill the 
 fun. actualy a game like this would be 2 boring and short if was not hard. It is not that addictive, 
 but still pretty addictive, with only 20 level, you concentrate more on the story and playing with 
 friends then ur character. You wont play it to have the best hero online, just to have fun and 
 thats what counts.
  Ho, and by the way its maybe the best graphics ive seen next to oblivion.
  
  Rent it or something 
 and see for ur self, ive said too much, i cant make u love or buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: epikhigh
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 2, 2006 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars factions is set in a beautiful very asian influence continent of Cantha. 
  
  -Graphics-
  Guild wars has one of the best graphics out there for PC online games. The characters 
 look very real and fantastic. The enviornments are very life like. The water is also very realistic 
 and blends into the enviornment very well. Overall, the graphics for Guild Wars Factions is upgraded 
 from the origional Guild Wars Prophecies, and it shows. You will be blown away by the graphics... 
 :)
  
  -Sound-
  The music for Guild wars Factions is very well made. The orchestral music is made to fit in with 
 the whole Asian theme of the game. The music is very atmospheric and well made. But the only problem 
 with this game is the character voice overs are somewhat simple and there is no mouth movement. 
 But overall, music is very well done.
  
  -Gameplay-
  Im going to put it as simply as possible. 
  Its easy
  Its fun
  Its gratifying
  Its rewarding
 
  Fun
  Fun
  Fun
  
  Overal Guild Wars Factions is a great follow-up to Guild wars prophecies and people who enjoyed 
 the first Guild Wars should definitly get this one, and also the people who have never played it 
 should also get it because its honestly fun. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HamanZz
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 6, 2006 11:31 pm PT
Review:  The world itself is much richer than the original land of Tyria. Its a lot more organic and animated, 
 moving away from the often dark and depressing landscapes of Prophecies, and generally seems much 
 more alive  I always felt that the original landscapes were a little empty, probably due to the 
 fact that most of the game is instanced. In Factions, though, youll find instanced areas populated 
 with hundreds of NPCs and animals of every size and shape. In addition, the quests themselves feel 
 a lot more dynamic and involving. One mission I found early on had me travelling to a bar to rid 
 it of an obnoxious drunkard, only to come across a little girl surrounded by guards; if you accept 
 her tale of being kidnapped, the guards turn on your party, resulting in a pitched battle that 
 has you surrounded on all sides. Little elements like this add up to make Cantha look more like 
 a living, breathing place.
  
  The two new professions in Factions are fun to play as, but there is definitely a good reason why 
 there are currently more Assassins running around than Ritualists. If you choose the latter, be 
 prepared to multitask like crazy; youll have to manage summoned spirits, heal your party, heal 
 yourself, heal your spirits, and also take the offensive in battles. Its a lot more effort than 
 the easy to use Assassin, who can teleport in and out of battle, dealing a lot of damage while 
 avoiding return blows. Hopefully, as time goes by, well see more people give the Ritualist a go 
 (even if for no other reason than to fill the streets with what everyone agrees is a very nice 
 dance emote) .
  
  The new challenge missions are a great addition. Imagine an arcade game where youre always trying 
 to beat the high score, and youll have a good idea of what to expect. It can be quite addictive 
 trying to stay alive longer than your friends  and of course you get all the bragging rights afterwards. 
 Likewise, the traditional PvP modes are as competitive as ever, and should suck quite a lot of 
 people in for some time to come.
  
  The main potential problem you might have with Factions is true of any MMOG  basically, you get 
 out of it what you put in. While Guild Wars doesnt require nearly so much of an investment as 
 other games, youll still need to spend a good few hours in order to find your feet. This is made 
 so much easier if you can attach yourself to a decent guild, or if you have a large number of friends 
 in the game. I found a lot of my time in Prophecies wasnt as good as it could have been simply 
 because I was forced to team up with complete idiots. Once I joined a fun, relaxed guild, however, 
 things instantly got better - and the same rule applies to Factions.
  
  Theres so much more about the game that I havent talked about, but your attention span is probably 
 already waning. Suffice to say, if youre after a MMOG that is fun, immersive, and easy to get 
 into, you cant get much better than Guild Wars Factions. It improves on its predecessor in almost 
 every way possible, and should occupy you for some time to come. Now if youll excuse me, Sammy 
 (my white tiger) and I are off to slaughter some zombified Canthans. 
  
  lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xphoenixtheory
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 2, 2006 3:00 pm PT
Review:  i love this game alot could be better but it is worth ur time and money great game pvp battles 
 are great and the caracters are great loookin his ever-expanding section includes information that 
 will inform you in your journey through Tyria, and will aid in your conquest of the many challenges 
 in the lands. While not intended as a full strategy guide, you will find a good starting point 
 for information about how to play and choose your professions, along with maps, combat basics, 
 information on the missions and quests, and more. our primary profession determines your hero's 
 basic appearance, including the type of armor the hero wears. It also provides several attributes 
 that improve skills over time including a primary attribute that is not available when the profession 
 is chosen as a secondary. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wajir0
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 2, 2006 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Guild wars was Very good when it came out, It had a great review, the game is Simple good value, 
 game play. and graphics... Also Guild wars has no Monthly Fee which Makes a huge difference in 
 MMORPG games. 
  Guild wars factions was Announced by a weekend played and it came out to be great and everyone 
 was excited about the new Characters.
  Guild wars Factions came out this last Week and It has Thousands of players already in the server. 
 Factions its great Graphics Inprovement, Game play inprovements. Sound it's ok.
  anyways Guild Factions is the Game to go 
  Buy the game its recommended.
  
  SickWITHIT!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmedpie
Rating: 2.4
Date: Jun 12, 2006 2:29 pm PT
Review:  The grapics may be good, accutly its outstanding but otherwise... ITS A LOAD OF SLHIT, i meen come 
 on the music is like dull and the gameplay is so so so bad and boring i meen WTF! Serously if u 
 like this game u have a bad taste in games and if you r a MMORPG pro you should be ashamed playing 
 this game i meen come on, guild wars? HA HA HA HA vry funni! and then the new one... factions? Its 
 even more funny! i meen wat a glay name, so so sad... I just want to say if you have 40 dollars 
 in your pocket and you want to spend it on a kool game... DON"T GET THIS ONE YOU WOULD GET BORED 
 OF IT WHEN U JUST INSTALLED IT. Get a good game like Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, now thts a game 
 which deserves a 10 out of ten. This game is load of slhit flcuk alsslicking son of a blitch c0ak 
 scuking game it is so bad... i feel so sry for the people who bought it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: morganout
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 1, 2006 11:19 pm PT
Review:  The game in overall is just great, smooth game-play, better graphics than Guild Wars Prophecies. 
 Also the music is again very atmospheric.
  The entire mission/quest theme has been optimized, and made a bit more difficult, which makes it 
 of course more interesting and challenging. The area you play on within the new continent is quite 
 vast, and foes have been made abit tougher to fight. So in overall this game is just a fantastic 
 follow-up to GW Prophecies. The only major bug I've encountered so far is the AI of 2 specific 
 henchmen, which are the Healer and Ritualist, but you'll see what I mean when you play it.
  
  Cheers,
  
  Mogami 
::::::

::::::
UserName: empion
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 1, 2006 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: You get lots more EXP, so you can level much faster. More diverse henchman so you don't 
 have to be boring playing alone. Enemies are not tough, just right enough for you to have fun. 
 Lots of class and skill to chose from. You don't need the first Guild Wars or another name is Guild 
 Wars Prophecies to play this game. This game i even better than the first Guild Wars (9/10)
  
  Graphic: Surrounding enviroment are just stunning, but when you go into battle, spells and 
 other techniques look all the same. There are alot of characters in this game, and they look hella 
 cool. (8.5/10)
  
  Sound: The sound is good. I really don't pay attention to the sound. The only time when i notice 
 the game have good sounds is when its really good or really bad. (7.5/10) 
  
  Storyline: The story is very simple and easy to follow, not to mention it's very interesting. Plus 
 the quest story line add to the game interest as well. It's not all the same and fun. (9/10)
  
  Control/Features: I really like the ranking system. It give you something mroe to play about. 
 You can hide your cape if you dont liek it. Still the Guild ranking system still suck. It only 
 allow three ranks-member, officer, and leader. The control system for the game is medium-low complex, 
 It only take few hours of play time to get it, and there alot of button you need to know if you 
 wnat to be a good player. (9/10)
  
  Overall 8.6 Congratulation Guild War: Factions Creators, this game rated .9 higher than the first 
 Guild Wars. 
  Warning; As usual i rate game really harsh, so don't be discourage by my rating on buying the game 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xunzhe
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 1, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  I have played Guild Wars: Factions ever since it was released. These are few comments that i have 
 for the game.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  First of all, there are two new classes being introduced into the game, which are assassin and 
 ritualist. Both classes are cool. However, for the time being, assassin is weak when go to the 
 frontline to battle the enemies. Although assassin has an advantage of teleportation, it still 
 do not give much advantage to those who plays as assassin due to the low health and hence, when 
 you teleport to the casters, you are bombarded with spells and unlikely to survive. Ritualist are 
 cool class, it summons spirit to its aid and casts weapon spell to aid their ally. The design of 
 both characters are cool as well. 
  
  Anet has improved the pve aspect of the game where there are better quests and mission are fun 
 to play. However, due to the fact that the game just launched and possility of lack of beta testing 
 of the game, this mission and quests are buggy. It is very frustrating when you have spend a whole 
 lot amount of effort on a mission only to find that the mission was bugged and you cannot complete 
 it. Besides that, the difficulty of the game has increased from the previous chapter. Now, you 
 gain level faster than the previous chapter and hence exposed to high level mobs faster. This may 
 prove to be difficult for the newbies to take time to get acquainted with the game and the henchman 
 is not really helpful as they are quite buggy as well comparing to the first chapter. Occasionally, 
 the henchmen, instead of assisting you, it might cause trouble. Despite of the fact, it is also 
 good to add that the type of hencemen have increased comparing to the previous chapter where the 
 type of henchmen available is more limited. 
  
  There are additional features added now to the guild. There are services available which you can 
 buy for your guild hall like storage, merchants, etc at quite a high price. Besides that, there 
 are additional guild scrimmage added to the guild hall where you can hold pvp session with your 
 guild mates and have fun. This is good as you can learn from each other during the pvp section 
 and have practice while getting familarized with yourself to the terrain of your guild hall that 
 might aid you during gvg session with other guild. Moreover, there are guild alliances added into 
 the game where you can form alliances with other guild and visit each other's guild hall. 
  
  For the pvp aspect of the game, additional assassin and ritualist gives more combination of 
 classes and skills that leads more builds available. For me, assassin gives more mobility and ritualist 
 skills are more defensive. Besides that, there are also alliances battle that available now where 
 you can participate in 12 vs 12 battle. Right now, you need to form 4 person team before you can 
 join in the alliances battle which is frustrating because you need to find people and due to the 
 lack of people in the arena (so far i encountered, maybe due to my log in time) , it is difficult 
 to find group. Moreover, the lack of punishment to the game leavers also impairs the experience. 
 Moreover, the point that you must accumulate in the battle which is 500 is too much as the battle 
 is draggy and long. Besides that, instead of making more original skills, anet has copy the skills 
 from the original chapter and change its name only. This causes some of the players feel cheated 
 (for those who play Guild Wars: Prophecies) as they are promised to more new skills and yet what 
 they only get is duplicate skills, not to mention there are also original skills. But it is not 
 enough. 
  
  The reason that i give 9/10 to the gameplay aspect is that i feel that the idea behind the gameplay 
 is still there and have improved from the original but poor in implementation.
  
  Sounds:
  
  The intro music was good. However, when i play in game, i almost cannot hear the 
 music unless i turn the volume to the max. Although the background music is not suppose to interrupt 
 the gaming experience of GW: F players. However, for me, the background music is not doing well 
 comparing to other games where it is not interrupting and yet make the gameplay experience more 
 enjoyable.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The environment is a wonder to behold. I like the city map. However, it is really confusing as 
 i was constantly surrounded by high building and walk in small corridor. However, as i say, it 
 is a wonder to behold. The details are amazing. The design of the weapon and armor is good but 
 for some classes, the design is weird looking. Besides the city map, the jade sea and the echovald 
 forest are also a beauty to behold. Of all, i think anet really do the best job in graphics. The 
 original Guild Wars's graphics are already good. However, in this game, it is even better.
  
  Value: 
  
  Well, Guild Wars is famous for its value of the game. This game is definitely 
 worth every bucks that you spend on it. 
  
  Overall:
  
  I know i have not covered all aspects of the game. But i just want to give an idea so far i have 
 on the game. On the whole, i feel that this game is good and innovative as they gives features 
 that we never seen in other MMO. However, the learning curve is too steep for new players and due 
 to the lack of beta testing (just my thought) , this game is ridden with bugs. I am looking forward 
 for anet to patch the game as soon as possible to let us to enjoy a more stable game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: frostbyte6
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 1, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  First time Guild Player- Worth Spending 50 bucks, its free to play online which is really good. 
 I highly recommend this game... Need more than 24 hours in a day to play and explore the environment. 
 Characters looks cool and gameplay is just right. no lag times so far on my quests... Just need 
 to get a guide book or map of some sort to get yourself familiarize or get to places a lot quicker, 
 although the game is easy enough to follow your current quest, i still would like to get a little 
 bit of edge and be able to find my way easily... ok time to go back and play, what are you waiting 
 for go and play too.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodMode
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 1, 2006 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Well this is how I grade my games. The following categories I use: Graphics, Sound, Playability, 
 and Replay Value.
  
  Graphics: Absolutly stunning the world looks fantastic from the vistas, to the mountains, anywhere 
 you want to go this game gives you a feast for your eyes worldwise. The models are incredibly well 
 done (as long as your running the game on high) they did everything down to the last stich in your 
 assasins outfit it's just fantastic. 10/10
  
  Sound: The score in this game is absolutly the best I have ever heard in a video game. The sound 
 from the great score really makes you feel a tie into the graphics: smooth, beautiful, and flawlessly 
 done. The clash of steel against steel and steel against flesh sounds fantastic. The spells cast, 
 explode, freeze and what ever else this game throws at you is just great. The voice acting is also 
 very well done. But not quite perfect but still, very well done. 9/10
  
  Playability: This game runs as smooth as silk. There is never any slowdown during combat or pretty 
 much anywhere for that matter. The menu style is easily accessible for anyone. And you can just 
 jump into the game and have a blast without any slowdowns or lag. 10/10
  
  Replay Value: You can jump in just to see what its like but I guarnatee this game will hook you 
 in so you just want to keep playing. Highly Addictive, sure to cause some marital problems :-) . 
 10/10
  
  Overall: ArenaNet and NC Soft have done it again, they have proved that you don't have to be Blizzard 
 to put up a good fight in this genre.
  
  The Final Say: A
  Outstanding
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGfreak0
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 1, 2006 6:25 pm PT
Review:  Ok before I accually put something here please note: i have not accualy finished this game (has 
 anyone yet) and I have not tried the alliance stuff (which is a big part of the expansion) nor have 
 i even gotten to the Luxon stuff or Kurzick stuff (but i did in the preview) also i have never 
 played a real MMO execpt a little of Runescape (don; t laugh)
  
  ok now that that's done:
  
  Guild Wars had been praised and critized by many for a long time now for different reasons. 
 I myself like the fact that there is no online fee, that there is a sense of balance between classes, 
 and that my necro can do so many different things ( blood spike, MM, 
 
  My olny complaint is that I got to lvl 20 before I hit lions arch. I like the whole everyone is 
 equal stats wise but 20 is a bit to low 30 wold have been nice so im not max lvl 1/2 way into the 
 game.
  
  Factions is a little different then Prohecies in th sense that you get most of your skills from 
 bosses and traders then quest, which was done to make people's builds more unique. another thing 
 is that all the mission's i went through were ranked by time instead of haveing a bonus objective. 
 You are also rushed to lvl 20 alot faster it seems. I like the story more this time around mostly 
 because I'm still following it cause my group in the past made me skip scenes. The game added 2 
 or 3 (i forgot) new missions types and made 2 team co-op missions. The competive missions are basically 
 a PVP macth with Luxon vs Kurzick. The challange missions are scored or something but i havnt seen 
 one yet. They also added Titles to the whole game so you don't need to buy factions for them. They 
 are basically just bragging rights , but its nice to see how much of the world you've covered and 
 stuff. Scriamge mode was also added (again factions not req.) and that is really fun (GVG with ur 
 guildies 1v1 2v2 8v8 what ever you want) . I would say something about Alliance
  
  The new classes seemed balanced (time will tell) and add more verieity to the game. The whole asian 
 theme was well done and the new enviroments look great. Music is still good and the new interfaces 
 look nice. The biggest strength of Factions is how it compliments Prohecies. Its weak point is 
 that the map is smaller than Prohecies, but it has more depth. I think the Luxon and Kurzick should 
 have had more space for more fighting between them.
  
  Basically if you really like Guild Wars or want to get into it you should at least try it out. 
 Don't let reviews sway you to much (mostly the ammature reviews like this) Guild Wars is a game 
 that you have to accauly play a while to make your opion. This is very much a user friendly game 
 once you know what your doing. I think the people who don; t like it alot are mostly people used 
 to big MMO's which is fine cause if i was rich enoguh to pay for it I would be playing WOW right 
 now. This may be to early for a review but I looks great so far
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaming_Beaner69
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 1, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  I have been playing Guild Wars when i got the Collectors Edition. I have playing this game non-stop. 
 I have now got my friends into Guild Wars so badly that everyday, they would want to come to my 
 house and just play it until the want to stop.
  
  I was amazed when they announced that Guild Wars Factions was coming out on the 28 of April in 
 2006. I was so ready for this game to come out at my local Gamestop. When I got a copy of Factions, 
 I sat down and could not stop for hours. 
  
  This is an amazing game with great graphics, music, and gameplay. I want to talk about the graphics 
 first. The graphics are just plain bad ass. When I played it the first time, I was like "Oh my 
 god..." My friends were kind of upset that their computers could not run it. Next, lets talk about 
 the music. The music was composed by British Acadamy Award winning composer Jeremy Soule. He made 
 the music so good that it was too much for the game. Last but not least, the gameplay. I loved 
 the game play more than ever. You can do so much designing for your character just to make one. 
 Then you go around town to town doing quests and missions for awards of many sorts. There is a 
 great story line to this game that I love. The thing I love is that there is never enough to explore 
 the world in 1 day and there is so much that you can do and takes awhile to do it, that you just 
 want to keep playing it.
  
  I just flat out love this game. I cannot want for NC Soft to make another expansion for Guild Wars. 
 You know what? I think going to go play it right now. Get Guild Wars, Its worth the money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: idshaggy13
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 1, 2006 1:03 pm PT
Review:  I have the original guild wars and I have played it for one year. At first I thought of faction 
 and then thought about the game lovers who dont have original and have Faction. How will they fit 
 in? Will they be able to play the enjoy the best part of the game which is PvPand GvG (Guild Vs 
 Guild) ?
  
  Yes if you go to PvP areas you will be asked for rank either 3+/6+/9+
  
  And yes it you want to get into top guilds you have to be Pretty good.
  
  Well I dont have 
 an answer for this yet, but when I started to play Original guild wars I was just playing PvE and 
 never got into PvP for first 5 month, but then i realized that PvP is best part of the game, PvE 
 is only to help you get to a level from which you can PvP effectively. And then when I started 
 to PvP i was not able to get into good groups because i was not rank 3+ or 6+ or 9+, so i decided 
 to form my own group and believe me there are lot of non ranked groups too.
  
  And now i am rank 10. Same goes for GvG, its not about the legendary weapons that you can have 
 (like in WoW) or its not about how powerfull a skill is, its all about how you combine your 8 skills 
 that you can choose, to become a competitive Player in PvP. Even then you alone cannot defeat the 
 opponents, its team work that will earn you victories.
  
  its all about skill combination, co-ordination and team work that will take you to top.
  
  
 And I am not an asian kid (One of the review for playing this game) and I did not play IWAY to 
 reach rank 10, and I play this game seriously because my goal is to reach the guild wars tournament.
 
  
  First I just joined unranked group or formed my own, then I started to join Rank 3+ and so on....
 
  
  Soon I was able to get into good guild because I was ranked.. this way i got experience in GvG... next 
 I got into rank 100 guild because i got the experience.. and now I am in a guild that can take me 
 or atleast guide me to my goal.
  
  I bet those who wine about this game becoming boring after reaching level 20 have not played PvP 
 in a competitive way. Get a unranked group and then try to beat a rank 9+ group; take that challenge, 
 see where you get.
  
  Overall its a good game and cant wait till go for territory control battles 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfgang_2k4
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 1, 2006 4:10 am PT
Review:  If you loved the original, you'll love this one. The best thing i like about this game is that 
 you can continue from your lvl 20 tyrian charcater and continue the story from Cantha or you can 
 start either the two new profesions with completley new missions.
  
  The missions are challangeing and although there are some bugs in some missions, they will surely 
 be fixed in due course.
  When taking part in the co-op missions, you only have the option to do the primary and no-longer 
 the bonus mission, instead you gain bonus exp depending on how quickly and efficiently you complete 
 the task.
  You can explore the beautiful sceneries and landscapes in Factions, almost every area in the game 
 is extremely beautiful.
  
  Finally the best thing i love about this game is ofcourse its free!
  I still do not get the concept 
 of having to buy a game and afterwards paying again just so you can play a game which you have 
 already purchased.
  Yes ofcourse WOW is one of the best MMORPG's around, but i'd rather stick to a game which provides 
 similar gameplay and enjoyment with the exception of having your bank busted.
  
  I recommend this game to anyone, Buy this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickwalker0
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 30, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Well Guild Wars Factions is a great game although only released three days ago (counting the head 
 start event and also how i stayed up to midnight to log on at 12:00 am 27 th of April) it is a 
 must have for Guild Wars players the serious with their GvG and PvE will love the new border control 
 on how it changes every three hours based on the alliance battles won and lost in the time space 
 and those here just for fun will love the explorable Jade Sea and Naga Lands. The two new professions-Assassins 
 and Ritualists-kick ass but they seem a bit overpowering i suggest a strong built upo character 
 for PvE and GvG as Ritualists and Assassins can easily take out spell caster reducing the opposing 
 team to their warriors and rangers (them basically being the only ones who can survive a strong 
 Assassin or Ritualist attack) left to resurrect the other ones. Assassins are great replacements 
 for Warriors and can take out any that oppose them in a quick chain attack while the Ritualist 
 summon a couple of spirits making them a valuable asset to any team.
  Overall Guild Wars Factions is a great addition to Prophecies campaign a must have for any SANE 
 Guild Wars player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: decebal
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 30, 2006 12:35 pm PT
Review:  This is not a complete review of the game. Before you decide to buy the game or to pass on it, 
 please check the others opinions as well. 
  
  This is my first game review ever written. I generally pass on getting involved into stuff like 
 this. However, GW Factions is really asking for it. 
  
  Most of the reviewers on this site are hyping up this game, claiming that this is either the best 
 MMO out there, or the cheapest MMO (since it does not have a monthly fee) . And I want to correct 
 that. 
  
  This is a good game all means. It is an online game which is free, and people rush to call this 
 an MMO. However, it is not, and it was never meant to be an MMO. 
  
  It is simply a game, that is bound impress you at first, then keep you hooked for a while, after 
 which you will get bored and grow out of. 
  
  The game does not charge a monthly fee. You can buy it and play it forever. However, A. Net plans 
 to release this "expansion packs," every 6 months. Which means if you want the latest content you 
 will end up paying $100 per year. That is cheaper than most MMO subscriptions but not amazingly 
 cheaper (A WOW subscription for a year is $156, and there are MMOs cheaper than that. )
  
  So most reviewers hype up this game a lot on this $56 difference on the game price. However, I 
 doubt that most of them played an MMO, because an MMO has A LOT MORE to offer. 
  
  ( A note here as an example: having the two GW games, gives you 6 character slots. A MMO gives 
 you an infinite number. If you decide to purchase more, they cost $10 a piece. You can quickly 
 see how the gap in price becomes even smaller.)
  
  I have mention before, this game seems very impressive at first. However, if you played an MMO, 
 you realize that this game does not have much depth behind it. The economic system is... inexistent 
 compared to an MMO, the items are very dull, and never make you feel very powerful, or special... 
 The story is very linear - play it one time, and the fantasy is gone... etc. There are way too 
 many things missing in this game, in order for someone to bring it in the league of MMOs. 
  
  It is true that you pay less, but you get a lot less as well. 
  
  Also, the fact that the 
 game does not force you to pay a monthly fee, but it gives you a choice to upgrade to the new "expansions," 
 is not a good thing. Some people will decide to shell out the extra $50 for the new content while 
 others won't. Thus the community splits every time between expansions. I was part of a clan of 
 8 people. I am the only one who wanted to buy factions... The others stuck to the original GW. 
 In order to play with my friends... I'll still have to play GW, and not Factions. 
  
  If you have not played GW, this maybe worth checking out. However, if you did... you have to be 
 very careful. 
  
  For example for me it's a really turn off, that out of factions, I'm not getting much, although 
 I'm paid $50 for it (more than I paid for the first one) . 
  
  1. I personally am not interested in the new character classes at all. I love to play as a Monk 
 or a Mesmer. Assasin or Ritualist... are not for me. 
  2. Also the new skils that they offer, are not that new. As a general rule in GW, a lot of the 
 skills are duplicate or very similar between themselves. The skills in Factions are no different. 
 
  3. PVP is pretty good, but nothing really new....
  
  And thus from a $50 expansion pack, I got what? Just a couple more missions?
  So if you are a 
 GW player, be careful to find something in Factions that you want because otherwise, you'll pay 
 for nothing.
  
  As a new player that never played GW before, and does not have a lot of time for gaming, factions 
 is worth checking out. It gives you access to all the character classes... skills etc from the 
 original one, so you may have some fun. 
  
  However if you game a lot, and you have time for it, go buy yourself an MMO. The lack of depth 
 in this game, makes it good for the casual player, but very boring for hardcore players. 
  
  I want GW to succeed. I really do. I think there are way too many MMOs that charge a monthly 
 fee without offering much in return. However, before GW can succeed A. Net has a lot more work to 
 do. This game simply does not compete with the good MMOs in the industry. Not even in price!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ja1c0b
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 1, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  When first activating your Guild Wars Factions account, (Or adding it on to your existing account) 
 you generally notice there are two more character slots. This is a big plus.
  
  The gameplay is good, and of course it's worth the money. No monthly fees? If there was an 11 Value 
 would get it.
  
  The combat can get repetitive if you are playing on one of the existing lands, but the world of 
 Cantha features some new monsters. (Such as a Dredge that will throw bonelike substances at you... 
 0.0) br / 
  
  Guild Wars Factions is almost perfect, except for the repetitive sound. The sound is still superb, 
 but it just doesn't give you the feeling that you would feel if you generally went to an actually 
 symphonic score.
  
  Guild Wars Factions is a great game on it's own, and I would recommend buying it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jlnmtz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 30, 2006 9:59 am PT
Review:  Very good looking game, sound and animations are very detailed. Fighting and skills are top-notch 
 for true MMO-RPG Fans. So many people play this game, no death penalties (where you lose all your 
 items) and loads of quests and missions to keep you playing for years to come. Free on-line play 
 is a good thing, customer service could do better though.
  
  Things that are bad about this game are mainly about targeting difficulties and overall lag in 
 the major towns and outposts in the game. You might find that this game is all about fighting and 
 at a certain level, everyone looks like "clones" with the armor choices in game.
  
  overall this game is a must play for hard-core MMO fans. If your gonna buy one game for your consoles 
 or PC, it might as well be FREE GOOD LOOKING AND HIGHLY RE-PLAYABLE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacash3492
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 30, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  When I first bought this game I thought to myself "All sequels ar eworse than the original but 
 then when I popped it in an finnaly got to play the game I was shocked by all the new and amazing 
 additions. Maps, character classes, skills and attributes, spells, and items. This game had much 
 more to offer than the original GW. But one flaw that was in the original GW was in Factions as 
 well. The charcters mouths didn't move when they talked. I also found confusing was the city names. 
 Shing Jea Montasey, that was a name that perplexed me. Anyway, the game is totally amazing and 
 deserves a standing ovation for it's hard work put into it. I would recommend this game to any 
 die-hard fantasy MMORPG gamers out there. Only if you enjoyed the first Guild Wars though. Whew, 
 what a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patton101
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 5, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Guild Wars is my favorite MMO and I have played it since the first day it came out last April. 
 I was really anxious for this expansion and was worried a little as to how well these new professions 
 would maintain a balance in terms of skills but they did it. The new map is about 2/3's of Tyria 
 from the first Guild Wars but it contains more content than the first one so you dont lose anything 
 in terms of size really. The environments are all amazing looking, even topping the first game. 
 The giant city landscape is a really fresh touch to the Guild Wars universe. You go all through 
 these giant cities walking on streets and rooftops while fighting the infected Cantha Soldiers. 
 All the natural environments are incredible looking. I started with a Ritualist/Necromancer build 
 and its a blast! I havent tried the Assassin profession yet so I cant comment on it but the Ritualist 
 profession is my new favorite. I didnt think anything could top the necromancer but I was wrong. 
 I love being a summoner with my Ritualist and with Necro as my 2nd profession I also raise minions. 
 All the new armor looks fantastic for the new professions and the original professions. Tons of 
 new weapons and items. This game packs a ton of content and is well worth the fifty dollars. I 
 strongly recommend this game to all players of Guild Wars and those that are skeptical! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziggy920
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 30, 2006 1:35 am PT
Review:  Well I'm sure everyone has there opinion on guild wars factions mines a little bit between the 
 pro and the con. 
  
  The good side: Well the best part is the whole new dramatic scene from Cantha. I was shock with 
 the huge environment. The new armour also looks so asian which that was quite a good job for thinking 
 that up! I also like about the part with the pvp upgrade. The Guild Alliance system was a excellent 
 idea it would really help the players who really help on there quests and missions. The best part 
 about the excellent upgrades with the pvp system was the territory part with the two factions. 
 The two factions that control multiple of parts of land. The two factions are called the Luxon 
 and Kurzick. Luxon and the Kurzick try to take each others land by doing pvp. The new professions 
 also were fun (Assassin and Ritualist) . That looks like that Cuts it for the good side of this 
 game.
  
  The bad side: It was repetitive I started getting the same feeling when I first playing Guild Wars. 
 When I was reading another review of guild factions some one said they try making game so hard 
 we can't run it or avoid the enemy's. I agreed with him too there is just to many updates to rearranged 
 the ai so it just gives us less options to beat a mission or run to another place (This also happens 
 around the original guild wars too) . 
  
  Thats my full opinion of the Guild Wars Factions. I hope everyone agrees with my knowledge that 
 i gave out.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Underguy
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2006 8:44 pm PT
Review:  This GAME IS AMAZING. Since I played for a long time GW, I know what i'm talking about. It has 
 everything you want, from elite co-op missions to extreme PvP wars. It's simply worth it, the graphics, 
 the game play and i can go on but words can't describe the game, so go, pick it up and experience 
 it for 
  yourself !!!! Trust me you'll love it and if you don't , don't blame yourself but maybe you just 
 don't like RPG games as much as GW players :P. I hope I'll see you guys in the wondrous world of 
 GW.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mystery323x
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 2, 2006 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Well people who posted said that this game isnt good because they nerf all the farming spots and 
 ect... But in my opinion they want players to have a challenge and compete and actual have a good 
 reward for the work you put in to thr game (its true some missions are pretty worthless thats only 
 some though) they dont want people just farming and grinding to get to level 20 cause players would 
 get bored of it (which i think is true it does get boring beibg the best by grinding or farming) . 
 so im kinda glad they nerf all the zones that people who are to lazy to do quests to level up or 
 get items ( c'mon take a challenge for once) . But overall Guild Wars Factions is a terrific game 
 with alot of nice people and great graphics and very fun.
  
  ahmedpie does not know what he's talking about ppl play the game to have fun and for PvP the graphics 
 are good but thats not y ppl play the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostlyMagician
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 29, 2006 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Well I played for 17 hours (or so my Xfire sig says) . Managed to get my Assassin up to level 7 
 and my Archer leveled up to 17 from 16 (Traveled to Cantha) . I like the way everything looks, sounds, 
 feels. Well so far everything is nice and the missions are fun to do. Everybody is just uptight 
 or just spoiled by games like WoW or SWG. 
  
  The sound is good but it could do a little work since it repeating kinda gets boring but it does 
 not really bother me that much. Pretty good music for a background music.
  
  Graphics are good enough for this kind of game and does not eat up resources. Really helps Messenger 
 when running this game so you dont miss any messages. Really computer friendly lol.
  
  The quests are fun to do and really puts you into the game. Even killing off bosses sure is fun 
 since it tests out your reaction time and how well you battle it out. Haven't tried PVP much but 
 when I did I sure had fun even when I had a 5/2 win/loss streak. When your bored of PVE just go 
 PVP and have fun, tons of people to battle. 
  
  I like how they made Cantha's back alley full of creatures since having a city without anything 
 wrong is just weird. I barely survived back there with my level 17 archer so if you think your 
 strong then you can head back there (I went back there for a quest) . 
  
  Anywho have fun with Guild Wars Faction since everything changes for the best so the game does 
 not get boring. If you exploit one area all the time it just gets boring so head out to another 
 area and explore there. Its a living world with a changing economic for a reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flatline711
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 29, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  OK so Factions is finally out. I, like most ppl, were sick and tired of having almost nothing to 
 do in GW nemore. So of course something fresh is a blessing, but and this is a big but, Anet has 
 managed to release a game with one of worst Healer AIs ive ever seen. ( along with many other problems 
 as well) im not gonna go into whats good about Factions because if u liked the original GW, all 
 the good parts r here. Now, as for the rest of what is flawed about this game, piss poor mission 
 design, the fact that Anet will nerf nething that is remotely usfel, the story, and worst of all, 
 all those lil kids that talk so much crap over the internet ( i kno that this is found in every 
 single online game, but GW seems to have it the worst )
  and thats about it. Now is this game still worth the money? Of course it is... if ur willing to 
 put up with Anet not caring much about u that is xD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andy-t-
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 29, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Enter MMORPG heavon, we just love it. Yes its back, with more fun, and kick ass moves. Words can 
 hardly describe the beauty of this game. Perfection has been reached with the two new proffesions. 
 Assassin and Ritualists!
  They come with a hell of an entrance. Kryta is swamped with budding sins and Rits. 
  New quest 
 on prophocies (old campaign) called Gates of Kryta, enables veteran Tyria players to enter the 
 new world of factions!
  Already i see level 20 Kryta players and fun new quests being added all the time. Also new NPC's 
 ensure a fresh new start and endless posibilities for Factions, and the fun of the MMORPGers who 
 are desperate to get their hands on a copy of this master piece!
  This game is now a must have in my eyes, I have bought it purly to bring information to our boards 
 here at legends of gaming and for all to share!!
  A short review this time, but soon this will be re-written when more information is mine. peace 
 out! :D :D :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aliengroups
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 29, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  It's perfect! Sure there are a few minor problems but nothing that can't be fixed quickly by NCsofts 
 updater. Otherwise the game play has improved dramatically, and they've smoothed out the looks 
 of the game so its more user friendly (at least to me) . The amazing Asian features really highlight 
 the game, they resemble what they really are like (yes most thing is the game are exact duplicates 
 of what their like in real life) . I'd say that within a week of it being up it will be updated 
 so it is without flaws and perfect for any player. Either new to "MMO"RPG's or experienced, it 
 will be loved and it shall grow! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HOMIE_G64
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 29, 2006 12:40 pm PT
Review:  It's April 29, 2006 and if you do not have a copy of Guild Wars: Faction installed on your PC you 
 are deprived. This game rocks. Period. Ok why? Lets start with the gameplay. Solid. There are over 
 1000's of skill combinations that you can use to tear apart your enemies with. The game isn't too 
 hard and isn't too easy if you know what to do. The item reservation helps people share items equally. 
 Animations are great, from special animations for you rank to seperate animations and sound for 
 every skill. The graphics... meh... can be great. The graphics aren't that bad with the right settings, 
 and with the GREAT gameplay you won't notice anything wrong. The ability to play this without Guild 
 Wars: 1 is a great way to let you experience the game without having to pay $45 for the first one. 
 Made by the masters of MMORPG (NCSoft) and old Blizzard employees (ArenaNet) , you can bet your 
 @$$ this is and will forever, be a great game. And once you are done with that, its PvP time! Bring 
 over 1000 skill combinations to PvP is great. You can even spectate champions clashing with others! 
 The unique tournament system allows different regions to hold the "Favor of the Gods". Guild Vrs. 
 Guild (GvG) allows Guilds to take supremecy. And the new Alliance missions allow Luxons to battle 
 Kurzicks in the ultimate struggle of Cantha. If you're not going to buy this game after you played 
 it, your are either broke or stupid. In other words, buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ofer1992
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 29, 2006 8:07 am PT
Review:  When Arena. Net (For all who wrote in their review about NC. SOFT, its the publisher not the developer) 
 first announced the chapter 2 of their best seller game "Guild Wars" i was thrilled. Finally after 
 almost a year of waiting, the new Exp. pack will be released. Immediately i bega to search after 
 every piece of information about this Expansion. Every new Press conference raised my spirit. So 
 now, after a year and 1 day (For me, because i bought Pre-Order) , I finally held the new copy of 
 guild wars factions. 2 minutes later, i was already playing. Enough with that, you probably wanna 
 know what is it all about. Ok, here we go.
  
  New Stuff: (I wont write everything cause that will take a few pages) Guild Wars Factions offer 
 you a new continent to explore, Cantha. A continent torn apart because of the war between the 2 
 factions, Luxons and Kurzicks. We should refer this game as a new chapter else then an Exp. pack, 
 since this is a stand-alone product. New mission types, real time borders and a thrilling story 
 is awaiting you. Two new professions, and much await you in Cantha. Join Now!
  
  Game play: The controls of your character, are not different from the Guild Wars Prophecies, the 
 same WASD and mouse control type. Players will be familiar here, while the people who didn't like 
 the control type wont find anything new, except maybe the new combo engine of the assassin. The 
 new game play you will find is the mission. Now, two groups of 8 each will work together to defeat 
 the new challenges, which will obviously be harder. Challenge mission will test your abilities 
 to finish it with the highest score. The last type is a PVP. You will fight for your faction on 
 resource points and other stuff just like RTS. The faction that will win the most battles will 
 win more territory. One of the most anticipated feature is the Alliance option. Several guild will 
 join together and create an alliance. the alliance will choose her Faction, and her members will 
 transfer her their faction. the alliances with the highest faction stocked will gain outposts to 
 control which give them exclusive features.
  
  Graphics: The graphics stayed as always beautiful. Yes, you wont find here any doom 3 kind of graphic, 
 but the real breath taking images of Guild Wars is the landscape. Enormous mountains, the jade 
 sea, the petrified forest. They all unite to give you an amazing experience. A. Net has modified 
 the engine to support DX9, which is another great thing. The huge achievement of GWF is the creativity. 
 A giant poor city with great textures where everything is detailed up to the last inch. And unlike 
 the first game, all the map is now fully explorable, means there will not be empty holes. You might 
 find here and there some bad textures, but this will rarely happen
  
  Sound: Ohh, the sound. One of the strongest part of GW and GWF, if not the best. The capturing 
 music composed by Jeremy Soul is great and remarkable. The sound of birds, wind, and the battle 
 is great and fun.
  
  Value: The generosity of the developers can be seen here, since you will not have to buy the first 
 game to play this. The amount of Content is equal between the two games. And i must say that this 
 game is a little better then the first one, as the plot and the game play options are far more 
 original.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: As a GW fan, you might take my opinion as "sold". But i must say that take my 
 advice, take your 50$ and go to the nearest computer shop and grab your copy, and dive into a world 
 where there are always adventures, and death is never the end.
  
  Note: About the time spent playing, i have a total of 500 hours playing GW and GWF. I have played 
 around 20 hours in GWF so i quite rushed and im in places where im almost the only one alone. Sorry, 
 couldn't resist. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kratosathens100
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 29, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best MMO I have ever played. 
  
  The game play is chunck full of Pvp and PvE goodness.
  
  Graphics are one of the best I've 
 seen in any kind of MMORPG. 
  
  Sound Quality is amazing. 
  
  The replay value? Let just say if you have to get one game to play through the whole year, this 
 should be it. This is a must have for any MMORPG fans. 
  
  New classes and new skills makes the game more stretigic and balanced. 
  
  They also added 
 features where you can vs your own guild mates. 
  
  What more can you ask for?
  
  GET IT NOW! ITS' WORTH EVERY PENNY! YOU WILL NOT REGRET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nhannguyen1990
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 29, 2006 4:53 am PT
Review:  Me, I want to enjoy a game where i can have fun and freedom, but this game does not offer me those 
 deals. Examples: Whenever I play World of Warcraft or City of Villains I can make gold so easy 
 through mission or drop by the monsters, but this game hardly give you a chance to make any money. 
 Whenever somebody finds out a good farming place, Anet will nerf it, whenever someone use a certain 
 skill for their advantage in farming, they will nerf it. Same with PvP and GvG, Anet will nerf 
 the skills that they think might be unfair, and the rank system will soon hurt this game once people 
 give up PvE. I am just wondering how the new players can join a good group when they join this 
 game. I have been playing Guild Wars for a long time, and all i see in the PvP district was "GLF 
 rank 3+/6+/9+" (because of this rank system, people have been quitting Guild Wars.) When the original 
 Guild Wars first came out I was very excited, but after a few days playing Anet started to take 
 away the players' freedom. This is my opinion, other people might think differently, but I think 
 Guild Wars need to improve some aspects of the game. Fix something so we can have fun for once.... 
 STORY LINE MAKES NO SENSE AT ALL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supamancam
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2006 7:38 pm PT
Review:  There's so much to celebrate about this game, and so little to criticize... The graphics are simply 
 beautiful; I frequently play Oblivion, and to be honest, when i jump back to this game, I think 
 to myself, 'And they say Oblivion has amazing graphics?'
  
  You'll virtually never get sick of this game. I've spent literally thousands of hours in the original 
 Guild Wars, and this game has such incredible improvements! Upon reaching the max level, many games 
 peter out and expect you to start again.. in this game, reaching max level is where the fun really 
 begins.. Pvp combat is ridiculously tense and engaging, and the many (90) new Elite skills alone 
 will take many, if not hundreds, of hours to capture.. 300 new skills in a sequel is pretty impressive, 
 you'll admit..
  
  Collector's Edition is pretty neat, well worth the extra few $... I couldn't recommend this game 
 any higher... Have fun =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarevoc1
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2006 6:13 pm PT
Review:  This is quite possibly the perfect game... Awesome plot / story, amazing graphics, more unique 
 skills than any game I've ever played, and the best PVP in any MMORPG by far. All of this and no 
 monthly fee... Someone pinch me.
  
  I played Everquest for 5 years, Dark Age of Camelot for 2 months, and World of Warcraft for 3 months. 
 None of them even come close to being as fun as Guild Wars. 
  8 hour raids with 75+ people to get 1-2 drops = waste of time.
  Being farmed by a 12 year old 
 with a level 60 alliance character = annoying.
  Holding the dragons nest and controlling him to own your enemies = priceless...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevinman4404
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 28, 2006 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Notes: You may notice I compare it in some parts. I have palyed these games too. I am a MENSA applicant 
 and do not bias ratings based on patriotism or what game genre i like- as the only genre i dont 
 really like is sports.
  
  Also, remember that this game is neither classified as an rpg OR an mmorpg/mmo- regardless of what 
 gamespot says it is.
  
  ~~REVIEW~~
  
  Gameplay: NCSoft has removed almost all flaws of common gaming, and in this expansion, has added 
 near-infinitissimal playability. What is probably most appealing is the level to detail, which 
 outstrips games lke Oblivion. The constant raging war is one of my favourite additions- u can fight 
 a whole side of thousands instead of one on one or guild v guild. And it does this in a really 
 awing way, contray to most war games. As close to flawless as any game has ever been: 10/10
  
  Graphics: The modelling is quite simplistic (too much so) but the texturing and softglo is 
 amazing and gives it an artwork- or even masterpicece- feel. When travelling you may find yourself 
 stopping to take in the breathaking landscape, with a great fantasy feel, in Cantha. While the 
 physics could be a lot bmore unlimited, the animations are gorgeous. A well-deserved 10/10.
  
  Sound: Often neat orchestral scores. Voices can be unrealistic. 8/10
  
  Technology: The 
 techonolgy reamins, in essence, the same, while NCSoft seems to have focused on the level of detail, 
 as well as playability. However, there have even yet been several MAJOR changes. The graphics were 
 massively updated- a mean feat. Even more applaudible is the staff-controlled events, ranging from 
 random quests and storms to wars with monsters being individually controlled. Finally, the streaming 
 allows them to patch and boy do they ever patch- see 'value'.
  
  Value: With expansions being released every 6 months, each costing the same as the last, and the 
 game's addiction making you really want to buy more, can make costs add up pretty quickly. However, 
 it still far outstrips the value of lesser online games such as WoW. You are looking at about $100 
 a year instead of $230 to $280 for games such as WoW. Guild wars servers use their streaming to 
 provide massive patches/updates- and soem may even remember the really generous addition of a massive 
 new region last summer. Finally, Guild wars is now addign $10 character slots, to avoid having 
 to buy another game/account at full price.
  
  Overall Score: 98/100
  Comment: Revolutionary
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hondje89
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 3, 2007 2:19 am PT
Review:  Many gamers have been playing Guild Wars since the release of the game on 26th of April 2005. A 
 year and two days later, an new world opens to the MMO gamers of Guild Wars.
  
  *Note: I'll be also reviewing parts of the Collector's Edition*
  
  After a year, we all know 
 the world of Ascalon, Shiver Peaks, Kryta etc. But, I doubt that there are any players that completed 
 the game 100%. Anyway, Factions will take place in a other continent called, Cantha. It's a continent 
 that we might call Asia, but of course, we don't got any weird things going on. The new allies 
 are the Tengu, that you might know as the annoying birds of Kryta. But they come quit handy in 
 here. The new overall enemies are the Plague. I'll won't tell anything about, cause that would 
 spoil it, right. And of course there are the all new professions. Assassin and Ritualist. I got 
 to say, the thought of playing as a assassin really looked cool. But after I saw the assassins, 
 I was shocked. The women look like Paris Hilton with anorexia, and the man look like wooden sticks 
 with anorexia. Although, for Naruto fans there's a sweet thing. The male assassins can get the 
 same looking bandanas like the guys of Naruto and same goes for the haircut. This means for me: 
 Avoid the assassins, they suck.
  
  After a lot of drooling when I first entered Ascalon before the attack of the Charr, I was playing 
 just to see the unbelievable beauty of Ascalon with its large woods and rivers that seemed to go 
 on forever and ever. Thought that was big? Well check Factions then! It's unreal to see landscapes 
 like that. NCSoft did a great job of transporting the Asian culture to Guild Wars. Not only the 
 buildings, but even the people, animals and the rest of nature. So, get your hanky and drool!
 
  
  Hearing all those nice birds and other friendly animal life all sounds good. But it didn't quit 
 change since Guild Wars of a year ago. It's still great, but It could use more variation. The attacks 
 and hits of attacks are just all the same. The sounds that is. But next to the sounds, there is 
 also music. Well, if you just love nice and calm music like me, Factions has one of the best gaming 
 soundtracks ever, that's all I got to say. If you want to know why, just listen.
  
  Like I said in the introduction; ''After spending hours of gaming in Ascalon, you can spend months 
 in Cantha and Ascalon combined. If not years.'' Guild Wars Factions will entertain you for a great 
 long time. If you have a character in Ascalon, and you passed the Desert, you can come to Cantha 
 and follow different quests in Cantha than your new character in Cantha. You will start right away 
 in a city way to the north, and you'll be fighting against 20+ enemies right away.
  
  The only thing I've got to say is: Wow. I haven't been a MMO gamer, never was. And I really hated 
 any RPG game. But that all changed since Guild Wars last year. I did play World of Warcraft, but 
 it wasn't worth the very few money you have to pay each month. So I stay stick with my favourite 
 MMORPG ever, Guild Wars. And Factions just made it better.
  
  Good points
  
  +Great graphics.
  +Easy to get into.
  +Appealing quests and characters
  +Lots of weapons 
 and other stuff.
  +Fun in almost every way.
  +No fees!
  
  Bad points
  
  -Minor graphical problems.
  -Quests might get old and take too long.
  -Game might get hard 
 at some points.
  -Surroundings may repeat themselves
  -Might be hard to get a good party. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jarek_Cyphus
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 28, 2006 5:03 pm PT
Review:  When the original Guild Wars launched in 2005, no one truly anticipated the impact it would have 
 on the online gaming industry. While not as substantial as World of Warcraft, it stood alone as 
 a remarkable gaming masterpiece. The same fine-tuning can be seen in NCSoft's latest hard work 
 in making Guild Wars: Factions.
  
  What gamers would first need to understand, is that even though Factions is considered to be an 
 "expansion," it is not dependant on the original game to be played. In fact, Factions stands alone 
 just as well, if not better, than the original. Much of the world is beautifully designed, a hallmark 
 of NCsoft's world-builder talents already seen in the original product. The updated user Interface 
 (which affects the already existing Guild Wars product, as well) makes it much easier to read the 
 data in front of your face, as well as being able to quickly determine state-effects and their 
 impacts on fellow players and allies. The character models are also just as brilliant as they were 
 in the original, as especially seen in the new Ritualist and Assassin professions. Everything from 
 bells and whistles, to the animations in combat and emotes truly shines in this game.
  
  If there's one thing that particularly shines in this game, it is the music and sound. Guild Wars: 
 Factions without a doubt has one of the most beautiful musical scores to date in a video game, 
 and the upgraded sound channels makes the sound effects immerse you in real-time combat. Everything 
 from the shouts and grunts of your characters, to the clashing and shattering of blades sounds 
 so incredible, you'd often wish it were in a movie. The environmental ambience has been taken to 
 the next level with Factions, making it seem more like you're in a fantasy world than anywhere 
 else. It is too bad they could not have accomplished the same achievement originally with the core 
 game.
  
  The Ritualist and the Assassin are the two new professions contained within this game, and they 
 both introduce a new form of gameplay to factions. While at first glance, the Ritualist may appear 
 to be a hybrid of skills between a Ranger and Necromancer, it's abilities stand out far beyond 
 both professions without becoming unbalancing to the game itself. Able to summon spirits to both 
 aid in combat, and buff character performance, the Ritualist is a handy class to have in your party 
 at all times. Unique in this type of game-series is the Assassin, which utilizes the ability to 
 unleash lethal state-inducing combat attacks. All of this is often conducted while dashing around 
 the battlefield with clever tricks that include but are not limited to teleportation, vanishing, 
 and high-speed sprinting over short distances.
  
  The new missions and quests provide a whole new experience for players to indulge themselves in 
 the moment they step into the world of Cantha. Some of them expand upon the original missions by 
 giving tougher challenges to complete as secondary objectives, such as completing missions in a 
 certain amount of time, or preventing a negligible ally from falling in battle. If you've already 
 played through all of the original Guild Wars and are seeking something new and challenging to 
 quench your thirst for more content, then Guild Wars: Factions has enough to keep you entertained 
 for hours. In some of these missions, you will gain alignment faction with the two warring parties 
 on the continent of Cantha. This can later affect your affiliation with guilds and alliances who 
 may have weight with an opposing faction to your own.
  
  New and Exclusive to GW: Factions are Alliances. Guilds can take up arms in Alliances and work 
 together to achieve mutual goals, such as holding up territories in Cantha in support of their 
 aligned faction. This brings the already competitive nature of Guild Wars' PvP to an all-new level, 
 pitting players who may have once been friends against each other in an attempt to thwart each 
 other's faction. This could very well be the best PvP system ever implemented in an online RPG.
 
  
  New to Factions are a host of new guild halls islands to explore and purchase for your guild, though 
 none of them are more strategically more important than the ones from the original Guild Wars. 
 All the same, however, they're quite a sight to see, and are often times worth the effort in gaining 
 for your Guilds and Alliances.
  
  If you've never played Guild Wars before and wish to give it a try, look no further than Guild 
 Wars: Factions. Even if you have not played the original game, both the story and gameplay stand 
 alone just as well if not better than its predecessor. Even with the Collectors Edition delayed 
 until June, buying the currently existing game would not be a waste of your money or time, especially 
 with many of the bonus contents of the Collectors Edition already existing online for digital download. 
 Guild Wars: Factions is sure to please fans of the Fantasy RPG genre and keep existing Guild Wars 
 veterans entertained for hours at a time. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
