-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/puzzle/guitarheroiii/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The best tracklist of any Guitar Hero game to date.
 Lots of master tracks from the original bands and artists.
 Higher difficulty level ensures experienced players won't get bored quickly.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Higher difficulty level ensures most people's arms will fall off halfway through the expert career.
 Battle mode and boss battles aren't interesting additions.
 A heavy dose of in-game advertising.
 Sluggish performance, even on systems that surpass the minimum system requirements.
 Online play has some connection issues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 16, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.8, 13 Review (s)
User Score: 8.0, 969 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Aspyr
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date:     Nov 13, 2007 &raquo;  
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Guitar Hero III delivers the rock to PC owners, but it does it with the performance capability of 
 a second-rate bar band. 

  Guitar Hero III marks the debut of Activision and RedOctane's wildly popular rock-and-roll rhythm 
 game on the PC, and in most ways, it's a solid one. This is a direct port of the Xbox 360 version 
 of the game, complete with an included wired X-plorer model Xbox 360 controller. The core gameplay 
 remains lots of fun, and the track list is long and varied, offering quite possibly the best setlist 
 of any game in the series to date. If there are any chinks in the armor of this sequel, it's that 
 some of the newer mode additions and a few odd design decisions do more to get in the way of the 
 fun than anything else, and the extreme difficulty of some of the game's more severe songs might 
 end up turning off newer players. And PC owners will have their own unique quirks to deal with, 
 such as puzzlingly high system requirements, sluggish performance, and an online mode that's rather 
 finicky about whether it wants to work or not.  

           Say hello to the return of the shred.      

  We won't spend a great deal of time trying 
 to educate you on the ways of Guitar Hero. The quick-and-dirty explanation is that you have a guitar 
 controller with five fret buttons and a strummer. Notes appear on the screen, you hit the matching 
 buttons, and rock is made. PC owners can also play with the keyboard if that somehow tickles their 
 fancy, but that's not much fun.  

  In Guitar Hero III, you'll be making the rock with one of the best soundtracks to be found in any 
 rhythm game. The soundtrack spans multiple eras and genres. Classic rock is represented with songs 
 such as Santana's "Black Magic Woman," the Rolling Stones' "Paint it Black," and ZZ Top's "La Grange." 
 Alternative rock from the '90s is present in a big way with tracks such as Smashing Pumpkins' "Cherub 
 Rock," Red Hot Chili Peppers' "Suck My Kiss," and Pearl Jam's "Evenflow" on hand. Classic punk 
 fans will dig being able to play the Dead Kennedys' "Holiday in Cambodia," Social Distortion's 
 "Story of My Life," and the Sex Pistols' "Anarchy in the UK." Modern rock hits such as Bloc Party's 
 "Helicopter," The Killers' "When You Were Young," and Queens of the Stone Age's "3's and 7's" are 
 also available. And for all the metalheads, you get major classics such as Slayer's "Raining Blood," 
 Iron Maiden's "Number of the Beast," and Metallica's "One." It's an all-around fantastic list with 
 only a few blemishes here and there.  

  Well over half of the songs in Guitar Hero III are the original songs by the artists, as opposed 
 to covers created for the purposes of the game. A couple of bands, including the Sex Pistols and 
 early-'90s funk-metal outfit Living Colour, actually went into the studio and rerecorded their 
 songs for the game, which is pretty cool. The one downside to having so many master tracks in this 
 game is that it does make the songs that are still covers stick out all the more. It doesn't help 
 that the general quality of the covers has also been downgraded a good bit since the last sequel. 
 The woman covering Pat Benatar's "Hit Me With Your Best Shot" doesn't really sound anything like 
 the '80s songstress; the version of Black Sabbath's "Paranoid" in the game features a uniformly 
 unimpressive Ozzy Osbourne impersonator; and the entire cover of "Holiday in Cambodia" has been 
 pretty badly butchered with some weird structuring changes, badly edited lyrics, and a guy who 
 sounds more like someone trying to parody Jello Biafra than anyone remotely authentic. Of course, 
 the guitar parts in these covers don't suffer much and in fact do a fine job of emulating the real-life 
 songs. It's just the surrounding pieces that rob the tracks of authenticity.  

  Also of note is the high level of difficulty. The easy and medium difficulties are as good a starting 
 point as they've ever been (though even they are a smidge more difficult than in previous installments) , 
 but the curve definitely takes a steep incline when you bump up to hard and expert. The jump in 
 expertise required for each setting is far greater than ever before, and at times it comes across 
 as just too much. As awesome as songs like "One" and "Raining Blood" are, they're so intense that 
 it's unlikely that anyone who didn't get all the way through expert in Guitar Hero II will have 
 a blessed clue what to do with these songs. And then there's that pesky song from extreme power 
 metal group DragonForce, "Through the Fire and Flames." It sounds a little bit like a Dungeons 
 &amp; Dragons dork singing over a tape of the Contra soundtrack that's been thrown in a blender 
 and set to "liquefy," and it is so excruciatingly, arthritis-inflictingly difficult that you'll 
 be thanking your lucky stars it's a bonus song and not something you're required to complete to 
 advance.  

  Regardless, there are enough songs that do require completion that aren't terribly far behind in 
 difficulty level that it might just be enough to scare some people off from finishing expert altogether. 
 There's an old adage along the lines of, "You win more friends with accessible fun than you do 
 by breaking people's fingers with a fake guitar." Or something like that. Whatever. The point is 
 that Guitar Hero III feels decidedly geared toward the hardcore Guitar Hero fan, and less toward 
 the newcomer.  

  One thing about the PC version of Guitar Hero III that makes it potentially more difficult than 
 its console brethren is the generally slothful performance the game can turn in. The steep minimum 
 system requirements include a 2.8 GHz dual-core processor, a gig of RAM (2 gigs if you're running 
 Vista) , and either a Radeon X800 or Geforce 7600 video card to run. On the two systems we tested, 
 which both exceeded these statistics, we still ran into some general sluggishness with the game. 
 The 360 and PS3 versions of Guitar Hero III had some notable frame rate issues, but nothing quite 
 like this. Notes will sometimes seem to be behind the music, and it's not uncommon to see notes 
 just skip on down the fretboard to catch back up. For a rhythm game this is a killer, since precise 
 timing is needed for success. The Vista machine we tested on displayed issues like this only on 
 a very infrequent basis, and with a bit of lag calibration, it mostly ran quite well. However, 
 the XP machine we used (which included a Pentium D 3.40 GHz dual-core processor, a gig of RAM, 
 and a Geforce 7800 GTX video card) became practically unplayable in spots, even with all the graphical 
 effects turned to low and the crowd graphics turned off. If your machine can run it fine, the game 
 plays great, but if you run into these issues, you're going to end up frustrated.  

  Painful difficulty and performance problems aside, the game is still lots and lots of fun when 
 it works correctly. The core gameplay hasn't been altered much from previous installments, save 
 for a few minor adjustments here and there. Hammer-ons and pull-offs, the techniques used to hit 
 crazy streaks of tightly packed single notes, are now easier than ever before (possibly to offset 
 some of the extreme extremeness of the harder songs) , and the notes that can be hammered on or 
 pulled off now glow brightly to signify as such. While playing, you'll notice that the game also 
 keeps track of your note streaks both with a counter and with periodic exclamatory text messages 
 on the screen that notify you when you've hit certain streak milestones. There are also some changes 
 to the way your star-power meter is displayed, as well as your score tracker, though these are 
 mostly just aesthetic changes.  

           The gameplay is rock solid, but the dicey performance of the game guarantees you'll screw 
 up some notes you otherwise wouldn't.      

  You progress through Guitar Hero III much as you would any of the previous games. The career mode 
 uses the same tier-unlocking system as its predecessors, with encores at the end of each tier. 
 One wrinkle to this year's mode is the addition of animated cutscenes that sketch a minimal story 
 about your band's meteoric rise and eventual fall (literally) into hell. It's not much of a tale, 
 but there are a few moments of amusement here and there. One particularly interesting addition 
 to this year's game is a co-op career mode. This works much like the single-player career mode, 
 but you can play through with a friend whom you can divvy up either lead or rhythm guitar/bass 
 duties with. Co-op play hasn't changed much since Guitar Hero II, but this new career progression 
 is a neat idea.  

  Unfortunately, it's a neat idea that's overly restrictive in practice. For one thing, there are 
 six songs you can unlock  only  in co-op career, which means that if you don't have a buddy with 
 a second guitar who can come over and spend an afternoon playing, you won't get those songs. Also, 
 no version of the game ships with a co-op quick-play option. The only way to play cooperatively 
 on a single console is to play in the co-op career mode, and you have to unlock six tiers' worth 
 of songs before you unlock all the available songs. Interestingly enough, the launch-day patch 
 that updated the Xbox 360 version of the game with a co-op quick-play mode hasn't been applied 
 to the PC version -- at least, not yet.     

   

  Elsewhere in the multiplayer arena, the face-off and pro face-off modes from the previous Guitar 
 Hero games return, and they're still generally excellent. However, the one new addition is anything 
 but. Titled battle mode, this mode replaces the star-power mechanic with Mario Kart-style weapons. 
 If you hit a specific note string, you'll gain a weapon you can launch at your opponent by tilting 
 the guitar. Weapons include broken strings, jacked-up whammy bars, amplifier overloads (which cause 
 notes to appear and disappear randomly) , and a reversal of the notes to lefty flip (and vice versa) . 
 On paper, this mode seems as if it could be amusing, but in practice it's just dumb. Most of the 
 battle-mode matches we played were over in 30 seconds or less, because one player simply couldn't 
 recover quickly enough to get a weapon and fire back. It's basically a situation where whoever 
 gets a weapon first wins most of the time. Even when matches do go on for a bit longer, they aren't 
 much fun.  

           Get used to severe hand pain.      

  Battle mode actually finds its way into the career mode in the form of boss battles. Activision 
 went out and licensed a pair of notable guitar players, like Guns N' Roses/Velvet Revolver legend 
 Slash, and Rage Against the Machine/Audioslave shredder Tom Morello. At the end of a couple of 
 tiers in the career mode, you go head-to-head against these guys in original guitar tracks that 
 they themselves recorded, during which time-battle mode rules apply. Nevertheless, the same balancing 
 issue pops up. Most of the boss battles can be bested pretty quickly if you get a couple of weapons 
 in a row. The last boss battle has you playing a heavy metal cover of "The Devil Went Down to Georgia" 
 against a fairly obvious opponent, and that fight is considerably tougher than the other two, but 
 it's also the last boss of the game, so it would kind of have to be. The boss-battle mechanic just 
 feels tacked on. With only three battles out of eight tiers in the game, and only two of them against 
 real guitarists, it feels like a quickly tossed-together mechanic that, again, just isn't that 
 much fun.  

  Quite a bit more enjoyable than any battle modes or boss battles is the addition of online play... at 
 least in theory. While the online play worked fine out of the box on the console versions of the 
 game, the PC version gave us a real headache. On one machine we simply couldn't get the game to 
 connect to the servers at all, potentially because of firewall issues (even though other games 
 on our system worked fine online) . The second PC let us connect but refused to register our account 
 no matter how many times we tried changing usernames, and how many different ways we tried to enter 
 our registration code. Looking at the official forums for the game, it looks like some users are 
 having similar problems, but others are able to play the game online OK. Also of note is that none 
 of the downloadable songs from the console versions are up for the PC yet. The game supports downloadable 
 content, so it seems like that should come along eventually, provided you can ever log in.  

  While on the subject of differences between versions, it's worth noting that each version of 
 Guitar Hero III comes with its own guitar bundle, and PC owners are getting the least appealing 
 one of the bunch. The guitar bundle for the game includes the Xbox 360 X-plorer guitar from Guitar 
 Hero II, the wired one with the goofy strap setup. The guitar itself is fine, but considering that 
 every other release of the game got a special guitar bundle with a guitar that has no strap design 
 issues, better button placement, and full wirelessness, you might feel a little bit gypped if you 
 go with this one. At least it's only $80 for the bundle instead of the $90 and $100 that the console 
 versions go for. And if you already own an X-plorer controller from Guitar Hero II, you can cut 
 that price in half if you just go buy the game all by its lonesome.  

  The change in developers has also resulted in a slight change in visual style in Guitar Hero III. 
 The look of all the various characters and environments has changed noticeably, and everything 
 has been given a more defined and exaggerated look. It might be slightly jarring to those accustomed 
 to the standard Guitar Hero visuals, but once you get used to it, you'll find the game to be pretty 
 sharp looking. The guitarist characters look excellent, and even the secondary band players look 
 more detailed than ever before (though considering how dog-ugly the singer is, maybe he could have 
 stood to have a little less detail) . The PC version looks just about as good as the Xbox 360 version 
 of the game, apart from the aforementioned performance problems. This is one case where we could 
 have endured a bit of graphical downscaling if it'd helped the game run better.  

           These are the characters you remember, but they look a bit different now.      

  It's 
 also disappointing that Activision has finally decided to corporate up the Guitar Hero experience 
 with a fair amount of lame product placement and dynamic in-game advertising. It's one thing to 
 get branded guitars and get Guitar Center to sponsor your in-game shop; it's quite another to have 
 several of the game's environments feature billboards that display ads dynamically, and logos for 
 Pontiac and Axe Body Spray that pop up all over the place. It even goes so far as to have Axe-sponsored 
 guitars you can buy in-game, and Axe-sponsored go-go dancers prancing about the stage while you 
 play. Gross.  

  An abundance of advertising, some overly restrictive design decisions, weak new modes, a major 
 upping of the difficulty level, and significant performance issues might seem like a lot of potential 
 hindrances for a game to overcome, and yet none of these problems are big enough to rob Guitar 
 Hero III of the same brand of addictive fun that made the previous entries in the franchise so 
 engaging. Certainly the fantastic tracklist goes a long way toward that end, but the gameplay is 
 really what sells it. Sure, the difficulty can be vexing, but the game never loses that sense of 
 "just one more song" addictiveness, even at the height of its challenge level. It's a shame that 
 the PC version can't quite measure up to the level of quality of its console counterparts due to 
 those pesky performance problems, but if you've got a system that can run it, any rock fan is guaranteed 
 to have a good time with this one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (43 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Pim1994
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 22, 2009 6:37 am PT
Review:  I have this problem: I want to have Guitar Hero the most of all games, but my parents don't want 
 that i buy a console!:' ( How i gonna do this?
  
  A few months after the release of GH3 for the X360, WII, PS2 and PS3 the PC version is finally 
 here! Now the PC gamers can rock! Songs? The same. Controls? The same. And it looks even better 
 than the other versions. What i like the most is the song list: In GH1 they were old and in GH2 
 very new. But GH3 has both of worlds in GH3. From Kiss to Disturbed, from Metallica to Slipknot. 
 The songlist in 2 words? ''YOU ROCK!!!'''
  
  The ony thing what isn't good is the guitar. It's pointy and i like those wireless Gibsons more. 
 But you get used to it!
  
  Update: You, as a PC gamer, liked this game very much and you wan't to rock 'n roll the old way? 
 GH: Aerosmith is in town to! The review will be soon here. (First play!)
  
  PCgamers, finally is GH in your CD-drive. LET'S ROCK!
  
  Another review is done! See you till 
 next time!
  
  Pim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevewins1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever wanted to be in a band? Have you ever caught yourself strumming an air guitar? Do 
 you want to play a guitar but think that it's to hard? Well then Guitar Hero 3 is a great game 
 for you! I got this game just recently and found it really hard to put down. When I got it, I didn't 
 really know what it was like because I never played the other two but this game is great.
  
  Guitar Hero 3 has over seventy different songs that you can jam to and they all have a different 
 difficulty. Some are incredibly easy for beginners and some are extremely hard for the experts. 
 Whether you're good or bad, you can still enjoy this game. I thought that most of the songs were 
 great and you probably will too. There's some old songs that are from around the 80's and some 
 newer songs from 2006. There's a wide variety of songs and some are in different languages. Most 
 songs are catchy and I can often find myself singing one. There are some songs that I dislike but 
 the majority I like.
  Game Play/Songs: 9/10
  
  The next thing that I'd like to talk about is the storyline. This game mainly is about playing 
 your guitar but there is a career mode. In it, you basically just play through the songs on any 
 difficulty: Easy, Medium, Hard, or Expert. When you unlock a section in career mode, you unlock 
 it in quick play. In career mode, you earn money for playing songs and you can use this money to 
 buy things such as characters, songs, guitars, and many more things! Also, throughout career mode, 
 you can face bosses in intense battles on certain songs. When facing them, you play in battle mode 
 where you need to use items to mess them up.
  Storyline: 9/10
  
  Next, I'd like to cover graphics. This game doesn't really require such superb graphics and I haven't 
 really played the other versions so I can't compare. I believe that the graphics are pretty good 
 though. You can see the fretboard and everything has enough pixels.
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  The sound is great too. Earlier on, when this game was first released, the only sound option was 
 mono but now they have fixed it and everything is fine. You can hear all the songs and there aren't 
 really any flaws with it. There are some sound effects in appropriate places too. In Guitar Hero, 
 if you don't hit the notes, you won't hear that sound in the song so it makes it more realistic. 
 You actually have to play or you won't hear the notes in the actual song. Also, if you use the 
 whammy bar on long notes, you can add your own personal style to the song by changing the notes 
 slightly.
  Sound: 10/10
  
  The controls are what you would expect. There are 5 fret buttons, 1 strum bar, and the whammy bar. 
 You need to push the fret buttons when you see the correct notes on the screen and you must strum 
 as well. This makes it more realistic. You can use the whammy bar to add your own style into the 
 song. To turn on star power (an effect to get you more points) , you must tilt the guitar up. This 
 gives more of a "rock star" feeling contributing to the point of the game.
  Controls: 10/10
  
  So overall, I think that this is a great game and I'd definitely get it 
 if I were you. if I got this game as a gift, I'd definitely keep it. This game may be hard to find 
 but it's definitely worth the searching. If you have the other versions, or have always wanted 
 to play a guitar, I'm sure that this is the game for you.
  Overall: 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goodgumy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  Guitar hero 3 for PC is an exciting game for PC that, if you have the hardware for, can be a very 
 good gaming experience. The setup that I have is a custom built Windows Vista Business Edition, 
 3ghz Dual Core AMD 64bit 6000+, with 2 Gigs Ram, NVIDIA 590i Motherboard with an 8800GTS 320MB 
 Video Card, and a Sound Blaster X-Fi card. The game ran questionably slow when I first got it, 
 but then I applied the new patches and the problem went away. And even with all of the settings 
 at maximum there is no lag. But the problem is that on slower basic PC's the game won't run at 
 an acceptable frame rate. Laptop used was a normal dual core T7300 2ghz, 2gig ram, and a 8600m 
 series video card. And I can only play the game at 30fps with the game at 800x600 with minimal 
 specs. So if you are going to purchase this game I would recommend it to anyone, for it is a very 
 good game. Co-op, career, battles, and even quick play are very fun to play. And even METALLICA 
 is on the game. But you will need at least a dual core, 2 gig of ram, and an 8 series or better 
 3D card to play the game at an acceptable frame rate. So if you do not have a higher end PC or 
 laptop I would recommend getting the console versions instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asafs16
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 8:13 am PT
Review:  i played in every guitar hero game in PS or PC and i got to say that guitar hero 3 is not the best 
 game but its ok.. here is my review:
  
  graphics: well.. i didnt thought that guitar hero 3 will be with an amazing graphic.. it looks 
 like the same games.. i didnt like the graphic of this game
  
  sounds: well.. sound ok.. i mean the songs are in high quality in thats great beacuse this game 
 is all about music and sound with the guitar
  
  gameplay: the gameplay on the computer is simply hard to play.. and not so fun.. when you play 
 on the hard levels the game is almost impossible and thats bad
  
  problems: to short i finished the game in a day i hate short games its horrible.. also theres not 
 enough songs and again its horrible even when you buy some songs theres not enough and some songs 
 are impossible to play even if you do the same songs like 10 times...
  
  guitar hero 3 is the best so far but not worth buying for the PC.. in the PS2 its way better so 
 if you want it for the PS2 buy if you want it for the PC rent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jman
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 5, 2008 6:48 am PT
Review:  I was a bit worried about this version due to the reviews of sluggish performance, but the game 
 runs very smoothly on my system, which is right at the recommended requirements. I'm running at 
 1680x1050 with no problems. Gameplay is excellent, and the songlist is very good. I am enjoying 
 the career mode, though the battle sequences are kind of stupid. Difficulty is definitely increased 
 from GHII (which I have played on a friend's PS2) . About the only real complaint I have is that 
 the installer on the CD was a hidden file, so it took me a few minutes to realize I needed to show 
 hidden files to get at the setup file, since it didn't autoplay on my machine. 
  
  Other than that, it's an addictive game with a songlist that's fun to listen to, and smooth, nice 
 graphics. I'm sure my wife will be fed up with it shortly, as I will no doubt be immersed from 
 time to time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 8, 2008 4:43 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III is the latest game in the series and probably the best till now. At least for the 
 consoles. This is not a game which you can play with your keyboard. It just doesn't work. You really 
 need a guitar to play it. The game is very hard in comparison to other titles in the series. I have 
 played this game on both PC and PS3 and the PS3 version is better. And this is probably because 
 of the guitar. You cannot play this game on the console with your controller. You need a guitar to 
 be able to play. The PC version offers the posibility to use the keyboard but it just doesn't work. It's 
 just not the same thing. I mean the game itself is great, the songs are great, eventhough not all 
 of them mastertracks the soundtrack is great. The visuals are also good and there are also some 
 new features. This is overall a great game that shouldn't be missed by GH fans but on the PC the 
 game fails badly. Even with a guitar controller the game feels a little "odd" playing with the guitar 
 in front of you PC monitor instead of you 70 inch plasma TV. It's just not the same. The first attempt 
 of a GH game on the PC fails. Buy this game for your console not your PC, you will get much fun out 
 of it.
  
  My Score 7.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Squicky
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 22, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  This game does not work properly on PC. Ive tried it on three different systems and while the systems 
 were closer to the minimum requirements listed on the box, it should not be this bad. 
  
  The problem is video lag within the game. Trying to hit buttons in time with the song is impossible 
 when there is lag to the colored notes. It should be a smooth scrolling effect, instead it speeds 
 up, slows down and gets choppy randomly. How are you supposed to play this game like this?
  
  How many computer systems would have a hard time playing music or displaying some stupid colored 
 dots that scroll down the screen. How is this type of game in need of so much resources? Its not 
 even a graphics intensive game!! Why does it need a 300$ video card and dual core processors to 
 play it?? How come the PS2 version works perfectly, I know my computer is more powerful than a 
 PS2 yet it is not capable of playing this stupid little game.
  
  Who decided that this game was fit to be on store shelves? I like the idea of a PC port but come 
 on, do it right if you are going to do it. Otherwise you've just disappointed millions of people 
 with less than acceptable products. 
  
  I give this game a negative score but the slider doesnt slide past 1.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chicken32
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 10, 2008 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Guitar Hero, has become a successful franchise, and now has switched developers to Activision, 
 let's take a look at what they have done to it, with the latest installment Guitar Hero III.
  
  The formula has stayed the same, you're a new rocker, looking to make it to the top, with the 
 addition of Boss battles, and battle abilities, like jamming the opponents fret, and blowing out 
 his amp for a limited time.
  Song selection is subpar, with more mainstream music such as AFI and The Killers, With such selections, 
 some songs have parts where you don't play at all and/or very easy to play with repeating chords. 
 With games such as Tony Hawk under Activision's belt, i expected a better lineup.
  
  Fortunately multiplayer has been ported to the PC as well, with Co-op and competitive matches included.
 
  
  The console Guitar Controller can be used on the PC, plugging it into a USB port. Aspyr has also 
 included alternatives, with the use of the keyboard and/or mouse. The default controls for the 
 keyboard can be a mix up, but you can change them to your liking.
  
  The graphics take a cartoony look, unlike Rock Band, which isn't a bad thing. They all look fantastic. 
 But at high resolutions the Note Highway can stutter alot, affecting gameplay.
  Sound is fantastic, most songs are master recordings which is a positive, and they are all high 
 quality produced.
  
  This year the third installment of the Guitar Hero series has come, with it's only substantial 
 change/addition of online multiplayer. Graphics don't run smooth and song selection is disappointing. 
 With competition in Rock Band this year, Guitar Hero falls behind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledime
Rating: 8
Date: May 1, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  I didn't really want to get this game at first. My brother wanted to get it and I told him that 
 it probably isn't too great. Now I stand corrected. It is a good game. If you're into stories, 
 action, adventures or any of that stuff, you won't find it here. But you will find some great songs, 
 a very unique way of gameplay, and hours and hours of replay value!
  
  The sound in this game is great. They are a lot of songs that you hear on the radio, and some great 
 songs that no one has ever heard of before! The graphics is where this game is lacking value. They 
 aren't too great. But online play makes up for all of that.
  
  There are pleanty of unlockables to be found so you will be playing for hours and hours trying 
 to get every character, costume, color, guitar, and song! It is quite a goal to shoot for if you 
 want to collect them all!
  
  I reccomend this game if you like DDR, but don't like dancing. It will keep you entertained for 
 a long time and the multiplayer is great. The game is also great at parties as mentioned on the 
 Gamespot review. This game is worth it. Happy Gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snipo101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  
  You heard me. Wow.
  
  I don't think I've felt so positively about a non-Sqeenix game until now. Ever. In my life.
  
 
  You see, I've wanted GH for a long time, but I could never get it. Sure, I had the money, but never 
 the right gaming system to play it on. You see, I have 3 awesome PC's, but nothing else. There 
 was no way I could play the game unless I went over to my friend's house. Until now.
  
  The second it came out: Bam, I was at my local Target, purchasing this beast of a game for 80 straight 
 bucks. And I've got to say; It's worth more than that. Much more. And here's why:
  
  1. It has no trouble running on my computer, not even online.
  
  2. Did I say online? Oh well, 
 I guess I spoiled reason #2 beforehand.
  
  3. There's so much stuff to unlock, and I'm not even close to getting half of it, even though I 
 play this game compulsively.
  
  4. No matter how many times you beat the songs, they are still extremely enjoyable.
  
  5. It 
 comes with an awesome-looking guitar. Much better than the ones for the PS2.
  
  6. This game on the PC makes PS2 graphics look like crap.
  
  7. Highly addictive. I got my 
 money's worth within about 3 days of buying the game.
  
  I have spoken. Now go out, and BUY IT YOURSELF!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CherokeeXP
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 5, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  OK firstly I am SHOCKED that Gamespot gave this a 7.5.
  They did make a job of mentioning the bugs in this game, but to still give it a 7.5 is baffling.
 
  This is a rhythm game. It is not an FPS where a few laggy moments have no real effect. In this 
 game half a second of lag can lead to a wasted attempt at a high score! It is crucial that the 
 game runs without lags. So a game like this is not playable, and therefore deserves MUCH lower 
 than 7.5.
  
  Now I have heard some people with otiose hardware configurations have managed to play this game 
 without any lags whatsoever. Great. Kudos to you all.
  But Guitar Hero 3 is not a game that is advertised for its graphics. It is intended for the less 
 hardcore gamer who can't tell the difference between DX10 and and DX7. Its a FUN rhythm game.
 
  It has been very badly ported onto the PC, and the truth is, it is not worth your money.
  If you play casually then you will probably not mind at all. But if you are actually trying to 
 achieve a high score... it is IMPOSSIBLE.
  The game lags at least 2-3 times PER LEVEL for me. The lags can be as subtle as a small hiccup 
 all the way up to a 3-5 second slow down, in which time you cannot see any notes at all (goodbye 
 4x multiplier !) .
  
  So I would like to point out that this game is BROKEN. The only upside is that it is cheaper than 
 the console versions, but with such bugs it should be much much cheaper.
  DO NOT BUY until there is a major patch released, or unless you have a killer hardware setup!
 
  
  ps. My hardware is as follows:
  ATI X1900XTX
  2GB DDR RAM
  AMD 3700+ CPU
  
  Before anyone says "psh the x1900xtx is old!" let me remind you that it is way beyond what the 
 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS of the game ask for, and secondly, people who want to play GH3 should not 
 be required to have the most up-to-date hardware.
  
  I hope I have helped at least one person from throwing away a good 45. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atmu5ph3ar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 3:03 pm PT
Review:  GH 3 Is a nice, fun, roll up a fatty, kick back and rock out kinda game. You can't download songs, 
 but if you're handy with compters you can download a few applications and import your own songs 
 into it, which, if u ask me, is far better than having to take whatever X360 and PS3 offer for 
 downloads anyway..... currently working on Under the Bridge by RHCP. Sweet. So if your computer 
 is up to the challenge grab up a copy. Also the PC uses the same guitar as the 360 so if ur friends 
 have the 360 version, u can take ur guitar, plug it right into the x360 and battle all day, or 
 they can plug the 360 guitar right into ur pc and play 2 player all night. All the songs in this 
 version are awesome, minus Poison of course, but everything from Aerosmith to ZZ Top, how can u 
 go wrong??? Well u could buy it for something other than the computer, but that would just be stupid 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redox6023
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 8:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely amazing. I've never owned a newer console so I never got to play GH until 
 it came to PC. Wow...... I'm a hardcore FPS and RTS guy, have been for years, but damn if this didn't 
 suck me in and consume way too many hours. Its pure fun. The thrill of getting a song dead on or 
 the feeling that you know you're getting better can't be described. Now I know how a few of my 
 friends who are in real bands must feel. This game makes me want to buy an old console to play 
 the first two. Highly recommended for anyone interested in playing guitar or who loves rock and 
 metal. 
  
  
  The only con I see and I think its more of a personal thing is that I would liked to have seen 
 more "metal" bands in the game. I just cant enjoy "the killers" and related indie/prog rock/pop 
 crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: staypuft44
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 4, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  One of the biggest surprises in the holiday season of 2007 was the port of Guitar Hero 3 for the 
 PC.
  
  Without gamespot's search listings, I would've never known the port even existed. And judging by 
 the available stock of Guitar Hero 3 for the PC at game stores, I'm definitely not alone in my 
 surprise.
  
  After hearing about the series for some time and playing the latest game on the PS3 at a friend's, 
 I bought the game for PC hoping for a similar experience.
  
  I was half right.
  
  The game is part for part exactly like the console version, and comes with the same guitar released 
 to the XBOX 360 version.
  
  One of the first issues you'll encounter is, even on a hefty system, the game's requirements never 
 seem to be met and you end up with performance issues. In some games, performance issues are tolerable, 
 sometimes even unnoticeable. But with Guitar Hero, if you aren't getting consistent performance, 
 then you won't be doing well in the game at all. And Guitar Hero 3 for the PC has giant performance 
 issues. 
  
  Patch v1.1 for the PC was supposed to correct some of these issues, but does very little in the 
 end. Turn off crowds and crank the quality of the game back -- that's really the only way to cope 
 on a mid-range system.
  
  One of the more serious issues with the game is really not with the game at all, but with the company 
 in charge of the PC version and that's Aspyr. Their online area has a special section labeled "Downloadable 
 Content" and without much surprise, the area has been "coming soon" since the game's release. Subsequently, 
 the company has stated that they will not be releasing any downloadable content AT ALL -- another 
 franchise ignoring their PC fanbase. 
  
  It's a little disappointing considering the numerous song packs released to both PS3 and XBOX versions 
 of the game. 
  
  Fans of the game won't be disappointed playing this, but don't expect to get anymore than the songs 
 that are already included in the game. It's fun, but it's replay value will continue to drop dramatically 
 without any support from Aspyr.
  
  It's disappointing to think Aspyr is doing themselves a favour by not spending the resources to 
 take care of their users, and it certainly isn't doing much for their reputation among gamers. 
 It's easy to say that there isn't a market for PC gamers in this genre, but it's because of the 
 people in charge like EA and Aspyr who continue to alienate their PC users that causes a drop in 
 sales and interest for their PC products. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mohstn21
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 29, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  its really good in the beginning but it gets boring halfway through medium. Graphics are amazing. 
 characters are OK. sound is really good. Some some are really hard but some are really easy, but 
 most I beat on the first try. Most of the songs are pretty good. DO NOT buy the God Of Rock hes 
 stupid. the battles are really good. The guitar you get for PC is Pretty cool. Guitar Hero III 
 delivers the rock to PC owners, but it does it with the performance capability of a second-rate 
 bar band. the jump to the PC could have been better executed, and the difficulty is unforgiving. lag 
 is very bad but if you have a good computer you can definitely have fun. Not so legendary. For 
 those who dont got a Wii, PS2/3, or XBOX 360, and want Guitar Hero... and don't wanna buy a new 
 system, here you go! overall its OK to pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fewes17
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 5:06 am PT
Review:  Although Guitar Hero 3 offers many new fun and cool features, they are quickly overshadowed by 
 what it left out. For example, the difficulty curve just goes straight through the roof compared 
 to the earlier games in the series. And for some reason they abandoned co-op quickplay, and replaced 
 it with battlemode, which is a nice feature in theory, but when you actually play it it's just 
 annoying and unfair.
  
  The graphics are great, everything looks more realistic, and that really adds to the atmosphere 
 of the whole rock-theme, but the game is littered with ads and such, which kind of makes you think 
 of the producers as greedy white cat-petting evil geniuses.
  The framerate on the pc version can be a problem from time to time, since it's really unstable 
 if you don't have a great computer.
  
  In my opinion, the gameplay is greatly improved in this third (Or fourth, depending on how you 
 look at it) installment, hammer-ons and pull-offs are much easier to hit, and the game feels much 
 more alive than the others.
  And the GH3 guitar is a lot more nicer than the other ones.
  
  The earlier Guitar Heros may be better than this one, but it's defenately worth checking out! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brain20035
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 16, 2008 2:14 am PT
Review:  We heard about console versions of Guitar Hero from time to time, but never got to get our hands 
 on it (for those who didn't have consoles) . Finally the new developer decided to share the joy 
 of guitar hero on the PC platform with Guitar Hero III. I know how it might sound but this game 
 is amazing. People who haven't played it might say that it's just a stupid button mashing (!) game, 
 but obviously it is not. Just play 2 or 3 songs in the game and then you can't stop going! The 
 graphics are nice in this game. People complain about the lags in the game but I didn't experience 
 any. If you own a good PC you wouldn't experience any as well. The songs are great, and carefully 
 selected. Everyone who is in the rock business should like them! The guitar controller is nice 
 and has a lot of capabilities. But playing the game with the keyboard is extremely difficult on 
 Hard and Expert difficulty levels. So if you want to play a nice co up game with your friends you 
 should pay up double and buy 2 guitar controllers since the game doesn't support gamepads!!! which 
 I think it should have.
  All in all my advice to you is not to miss this game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LXRUBI1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is ausome. I play this game as much as possible and Rock out. The graphics on this game 
 are great im glad they made it for computer or i would have to go spend 20 more $ for xbox 360. 
 I never had any problems with this game at any time. I dont have an all that computer anyways. 
 I run it on XP. Evga 8600 gt. Intel R. which is a sigle core that moves at 3.00 ghz. 2.5 gb of 
 ram. I can run this game at high settings at some ok resolutions. If the sound is a little off 
 you can ajust them in the options menu its not that hard. If your comp cant run this game then 
 you need to upgrade your computer or somthin. But anyways back to the game. Multi player is a little 
 slow but who cares as long as you can play all the songs thats all you need. I recommend this game 
 to any1 who has an ok computer and who loves this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grall23
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2008 4:40 am PT
Review:  guitar hero 3 for pc has strong points and bad points. it meets two extremes for games where it 
 has excellent and innovative gameplay but the game will lag on slower computers and cause frame 
 rates to drop. guitar hero 3 for pc is different from the console versions because consoles are 
 mostly the same but pcs are all different. if your pc is slow, it will lag at times and cause you 
 to miss strings of notes and lose the game. the frame rates drop and notes are impossible to be 
 pressed correctly. the developers should have fixed this and it would have been a great game. the 
 gameplay is innovative and not like other music and rhythm games. holding down the frets and strumming 
 the guitar is different from other games where you press the oncoming notes once. the songs may 
 be old but they are great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iceman2005
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  I have a P4 HT, nVidia 6200 256mb OC, 1GB of ram, and Windows XP Pro, and the game is playable. 
 Some parts of the game does have some lag so it's recommend that you download the 1.1 patch which 
 fixes some performance issues as well as add a few more options in the graphics department. I have 
 all the graphic settings on low and the screen resolution set to 800x600 and I still get some lag 
 on most stages that I play on but I got use to it and I'm still able to have fun.
  
  I tested the game with the keyboard and it's very playable on one. The PC version comes with the 
 white X-Plorer guitar just like in GH2 and is compatible with the Xbox 360 via USB cord that is 
 attached to the guitar. I like the style of the guitar and haven't had any problems with it so 
 far (I only bought it today) . It's very light and comes with a strap so you can put it around your 
 neck. The strum bar seems pretty solid and I don't think it will break since I don't hammer on 
 it.
  
  Everything seems to work, the online function seems to work although haven't played with anyone 
 yet. I don't know when the Download Content will be available or if it ever will, but I'm keeping 
 my hopes up and will have to wait and see.
  
  The game is very hard and tricky at times but with good practice you'll be able to play at the 
 Hard and Expert levels. You can play with 2 people in Co-op Career mode which I still have to test, 
 but the single player career seems pretty solid. Great music and really gets you going at times 
 when your trying to hit every note.
  
  If you plan to play this on the computer, make sure you buy the bundle that has not been open since 
 people have returned it because of the lag issue. Make sure to open it at the store after purchasing 
 it to see if the guitar is in good shape.
  
  If the game does run slow on your computer, try downloading the Black Background Hack. Search the 
 forums for a link or search on Google. The graphics isn't very important in the game since your 
 not looking at anything else besides the notes that are coming down on the screen.
  
  This is just a great game and a must have. As of right now the game is sold out for the 360 and 
 Wii (don't know about the ps2) so I got tired of waiting and got the PC version. I might buy the 
 360 version of the game just for the heck of it since my guitar works great on my xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockey15LSW
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2008 2:42 pm PT
Review:  I got this game for Christmas on pc and i was so excited. boy did it let me down. don't get me 
 wrong, guitar hero 3 has the best soundtrack, graphics, ect., but the lag is horrible. i am getting 
 a new memory card that will hopefully improve the game-play. enough about the lag, the game features 
 the songs Rock you like a Hurricane, Miss Murder, Talk Dirty to me, and Through the Fire and Flames 
 and much more. the game also features boss battle mode where you get battle power instead of star 
 power. Bottom line, Guitar hero 3 is awesome if the lag is good. It all depends on how up to date 
 your computer is. Oh and if your computer can't go with the game, you need a DDR gb1 memory card. 
 the game recommends 2 but the say 1 will work. just thought i would let you know. just be prepared 
 when your pc says hey i cant load it up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaeger1111
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  I read very mixed reviews and would have never purchased the game except for the gift cards I got 
 for christmas. I kept hearing about how well it was doing on consoles and would see it set up in 
 best buy etc and was at the same time curious and somewhat disdainful as frankly, people in a store 
 playing a fake guitar badly look moronic. Not to mention, being a PC gamer and not owning a console, 
 I tend to be a bit condescending when it comes to console games but I am not ashamed to admit when 
 I am wrong. (or jealous. i. e. Mass Effect)
  
  I purchased the game and was immediately impressed with the controller and the game input. After 
 enjoying the gameplay and getting the inventive and unique controls down, I finally nailed that 
 first song. It was then I experienced that first brief delusion where I thought for a moment I 
 could actually play guitar and realized I had a big cheezy grin on my face. I understand now what 
 the draw is. 
  
  The thing about the game is that between the gameplay and the great controller, playing songs you 
 know and some you love, you end up becoming very invested in getting it right which makes for very 
 addictive gameplay. You truly start to feel like you are a guitar hero and that kind of immersion 
 is exactly what makes gaming fun. 
  Personally, I think the PC version is underrated as I am having a blast with it and see what all 
 the hype is about. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkness7026
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 6:48 pm PT
Review:  There is no doubt that Guitar Hero is one of the best rhythm games out there, it's very original 
 and fun to play. The amazing fact about it, is that you can actually play this game and feel like 
 you're playing an actual guitar (if you're not a very good guitar player that is) , yet this game 
 also suits for veterans in guitar jamming, you can exercise your fingers and reaction, but what 
 you'll mainly get from this game is, no doubt, lots and lots of fun.
  
  I've played previous Guitar Hero games, though I didn't actually "pass" them, a friend of mine 
 was always bringing it over and I was just playing random songs and back then, I pretty much sucked 
 at this game :P And then I heard that a new Guitar Hero was going out on PC... You can't imagine 
 how excited I was! I knew that when this game will come out I will definitely get it. But when 
 it came out and I saw the required settings for this game... I was shocked... IT'S JUST A F*CKING 
 RHYTHM GAME! Why in hell's name do I need a DUAL CORE to play a rhythm game?!?! C'mon people, this 
 is just ridiculous... Anyway, I still got the game and I can run it (on lowest settings) , but it 
 still doesn't work as I want it to... Note that I have a dual core 2.3ghz e4500 GeForce8400 512mb 
 DDR and 2gb ram! And this game STILL won't run smoothly even on the lowest settings... A shame, 
 really...
  
  Despite all the optimization defects, the game actually rocks, as the rest of the series. And of 
 course, it is mostly advised to play it (at least) on PS2, or on any other console available, because, 
 unfortunately, the PC version is just not optimized, thus very hard to play.
  
  And now, let's quickly go over the scores:
  Audio 8:
  This Guitar Hero had to offer one of 
 the best sound tracks I've ever seen in games. I mean, there's Slipknot, Disturbed, Muse, Metallica, 
 Black Sabbath, Iron Maiden... and SO much more. Of course, there were a few weak songs, in fact, 
 there even were a few very annoying songs on the list, but this is not erasing the fact that this 
 game still has an amazing sound track.
  
  Graphics 7:
  The graphics in the game are OK, definitely better in comparison to the previous GH games, but 
 not epic. In fact, I don't really care for graphics in this game, at all. Still, if I have to give 
 a score, it's a solid 7.
  
  Optimization 4:
  As I said before, the PC's version optimization is poorly made. I presume that it's another one 
 of those games that makes people go and upgrade their rigs just because of the games high requirements... 
 and personally, I HATE when any game company does that kind of thing... *cough* Crytek *cough*... 
 All I want from this game is a notes bar and those score meters, I never even watch what's going 
 on on the background, in fact, I don't care what's going on on the background... All I want to 
 do is hit those d*mned notes and have fun with it... Unfortunately...
  
  Gameplay 9:
  The gameplay, as I said, ROCKS, literally. You can definitely have a good time playing this game, 
 It's much more challenging than the previous games, especially with Dragonforce on the list    
 
  Overall 7.5:
  It's indeed a good game, but not the PC version. The game is fun, the play list is amazing, the 
 difficulty is just right, but this game just isn't made for playing on the PC... If not the awful 
 optimization, I would definitely give this game at least a solid 9, but the maximum score that 
 the PC version can get is 7.5.. 
  
  Just... Don't buy it on PC... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dimondslayer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 3:44 am PT
Review:  I find this a brilliant game as i had frets on fire the free version for PC i thought i wanted 
 guitar hero III for christmas so i got it but it didnt work didnt even load on my PC u could have 
 imagined how devistated i was.
  
  So i set out to buy computer upgrades
  -Radeon 2600HD
  -Dual core 2.66 Ghz
  -2gb ram
  -Vitsa Ulitamte edition 32Mhz 
  -500Gb Hardisk
 
  -new motherboard to suppourt ghrapics card.
  
  all this cost around 1000 euros which is alot to spend but i think it will be well worth it to 
 play such a great game as Guitar Hero III Legens Of Rock.
  
  Also If anyone can tell me if i could run it min ghrapics, everything but 1400x900 rez with these 
 upgrades thanks =D
  
  A awseom 7.5/10 from me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  I was so happy to see that Guitar Hero III was finally going to be released for the PC... it really 
 was my most expected game for a while. But when I got it... it was much better than I would have 
 imagined.
  I never played a Guitar Hero game before, so this was the first one. I started up with the tutorial... it 
 was funny indeed (the God of Rock-who looks very much like Zeus-& another guy who explain everything, but 
 I didn't leave with much experience... you need to play & play more to be good at this game.
  Well you know how the gameplay is & so, so I won't insist. I'd like only to say that I realised I'm 
 doing hammer-ons & pull-offs even I don't know I'm doing them! As a suggestion, let your star power 
 meter get full before using it & use it prefferably with looooooong notes, along with the whammy 
 bar, to score huge points!
  As for the story it's not much, some funny cutscenes where the band plans the next concert, you get 
 to play the songs required (& other unlocked ones if you want) . Each concert ends either with an 
 Encore (an other song) or a Guitar Battle (3-with Tom Morello from Rage Against the Machine, Audioslave 
 , Slash from Guns`N`Roses & Lou) followed by an Encore with the guitarist you've just defeated.
 
  You can choose your character (I chose Cassey Linch, a beautiful blonde girl) , you can get new cloathes 
 for them, new guitars, guitar finishes, as well as unlock new songs, videos with famous bands & more!
 
  The songs... my favorites are Rolling Stones-Paint it Black, Smashing Pumpkins-Cherub Rock, Iron 
 Maiden-Number of the Beast, Metallica-One , Guns`N`Roses-Welcome to the Jungle, Slayer-Raining Blood, White 
 Zombie-Black Sunshine, KISS-Rock`N`Roll al Night, Foghat-Slow Ride, Weezer-My name is Jonas, The Dead 
 Kennedys-Holiday in Cambodia, Scorpions-Rock you like a Hurracane, Tenacious D-The Metal, Slipknot- 
 Before I forget, Living Colour-Cult of Personality & many others. There are about 45 songs at career 
 plus about 40 more as unlockables, so almost 100 songs in total.
  Even though the songs are better than in Rock Band, you can just play the guitar, while in Rock Band 
 you get to play all instruments & have a better multiplayer. So Rock Band is a bit better.
  As for the differences between the versions of Guitar Hero III-Legends of Rock, the PC version has 
 better graphics, so if you've got a guitar controller for it, PC is the best option.
  The only bad thing is that I haven't seen any AC/DC, Deep Purple or Pink Floyd songs, who are deffinatelly 
 bigger "Legends of Rock" than other bands from the game. So it takes "just" 9.5 because of this. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Foxcono
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  - The Soundtrack - every song on here (save for maybe 1 or 2) is not only good but FUN TO PLAY! 
 I don't particularly enjoy some of the songs, but they are a lot of fun to play... even the bonus 
 tracks!
  
  - The Career Mode - More refined than ever with beautiful venues and amusing cutscenes.
  
  
 - Online play - no issues here - well implemented. I can't wait for dowjloadable content.
  
  - Now I have incentive for my friends to come to my house (They can be lame sometimes =P) .
 
  
  Cons:
  
  - It gets too damn hard! On GHII, Medium was a joke - now it's the only way I can beat some songs. 
 And I don't even think Through The Fire and Flames is a good song, so why would I even try it?
 
  
  - Last years controller. I like it and all, but why do PC users only get GHII's controller?
  
 
  - A bit too short - you can finish career mode within a day.
  
  Overall however, incredibly enjoyable purchase (thank you gift cards!!) - I would never have actually 
 shelled out 80 bucks cash for this, but 75 bucks in gift cards, I got it for 5 dollars. Sweet deal. 
 Nice job, Activision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stalker700
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  The gaming industry is getting more and more unique, some of the new games, are good, some are bad...
 
  This game, is probably the best idea since melted cheese.
  You don't see those kind of games every  those genres are already 
 known and played most at this era, though there are some games, like this one, that shows that the 
 industry is still evolving.
  Graphics - 9
  Well, you shouldn't expect much from a rhythm game, but the graphics in this game, are pretty damn 
 good. The physics, though not seen much, they really do add a lot to the game, and it's fun to watch 
 the overgrown hair, moves so much it makes you sick. The effects, though also not seen much, cuz you'll 
 be more focused on hitting the right buttons, and not breaking your fingers, are also not bad at 
 all.
  So overall, it may not be Crysis (well..... that is a surprise) , but the game still has a very unique 
 look to it.
  Audio - 10
  Well, this is a rhythm game after all, so the audio aspect should be awesome, and it is.
  First 
 of all, the soundtrack in the game...... is brilliant, compared to the other GH games, this one has 
 the best songs in the series so far. The moment I saw Disturbed in the game's soundtrack, I immediately 
 knew I'm gonna love this game, cause it's my favorite band (^_^) , however, other great bands make their 
 appearance  Engage, Dope, Guns'n Roses, Iron Maiden, Tenacious D, and 
 MUCH, MUCH more...
  The singers of every song sometimes disappear and some other singer take their place, and he's doing 
 a fine job with that! Though most of the songs still have their original singer, and that's even 
 better to hear.
  And those who don't like rock, might not love the OST, in fact, those who don't like rock music, shouldn't 
 really buy this game at all, obviously.
  Gameplay - 9
  The gameplay is simply brilliant. Since I'm a newcomer to the series, I was completely blown away 
 by the idea of being a rock star, without the problems^^
  The rules are pretty simple, you have 5 frets and five buttons, you need to press the right button 
 with the color of the fret on time in order to rock, if you miss, a missed sound will be replaced... sound 
 simple, right?
  Well, not really, especially if you're moving to the Hard and Expert difficulty levels, some songs 
 will make your fingers bleed and fall (ehm Dragonforce ehm) and this game can make you break things 
 and go berserk, if you don't have enough patience to practice...
  Though the difficulty can be unforgiving sometimes, the game overall is a treat to play, both in 
 Career (the boss battles are really fun) , and Quick play. Don't forget you can also rock with a friend, and 
 that makes the game even better with a competition between 2 rockers, also, the Co-Op Career is also 
 hell of a time, if both you and you'r friend know how to play.
  Value - 10
  The game is insanely addictive, you can spend hours after hours playing it, alone, or with a friend, it 
 doesn't matter, the game will be fun no matter how you play it. Not to forget the downloadable songs, the 
 multiplayer over the net, practicing, and much much more options are available in this rocking package 
 that surely will help you rock hard, and forget about the time.
  Overall: The idea of the game is brilliant, and so is the gameplay, though maybe the difficulty level 
 is simply punishing, that's not such a bad thing, compared to how much effort real guitarists need 
 to give in order to create a great song or solo.
  So, if you're bored and seek something new, this is a experience you can't afford to miss, that is, if 
 you're ready to be patience, and, of course, if you love rock music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gregojose13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  O jogo e exelente
  perto da perfeio
  s que nao cativa tanto quanto o gh ou gh2 cativou
  e muito massa vc configurar o teclado pra 
 jogar como se fosse um guitarra ~~
  da uma emoo melhor q jogar usando o mouse
  alem de ser MUITO melhor q jogar no controle
  varias musicas
  boa variedade
  varias guitarra 
 pra comprar
  seria legal vc poder jogar sozinho tocando o baixo, nao somente a guitarra
  e nao somente no treino, eu q sou baixista so odeio esse ponto no jogo
  as vezes o jogo da umas 
 travadas, o q atrapalha
  ja perdi muitos pontos assim, e da raiva
  mas o pior
  e salvar, e quando voltar ao jogo ele dar erro
  e nao carregar
  da uma raiva enorme, ainda amis 
 pra quem libero um monte de coisa q nem eu
  bom q eu recuperei ~~
  bom jogo
  nao testei multiplayer, mas ainda vo jogar multiplayer ~~
  
  COMPREM 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiddpepsi420
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 13, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  I am a huge GH fanatic, i bought this game, and although i play it regularly, every time i load 
 it up, i get nothing but angry.
  
  First of all, PC and MAC users get a slightly improved version of the XB360 GH2 controller, and 
 no Les Paul, which is a shame because the Les is light years ahead of the other guitar.
  
  Then comes the system requirements, which have left most people shaking their heads, the requirements 
 are way higher then anyone that i saw expected. Either, Aspyr had trouble porting the game, or 
 the graphics are way more taxing then anyone thought, because my laptop runs Frets On Fire perfectly 
 fine.
  
  Now, if you have a system thats behind req and you buy it anyway, you can play the game and there 
 are options that can be turned off. But here is (one of the) the most disappointing part about 
 the game, THERE ARE ONLY 2 GRAPHICAL OPTIONS YOU CAN TURN OFF, no texture quality, no AA, just 
 "Physics" and "Crowd" and i'm not looking at the game now, but i believe you can change resolution. 
 Either there is TONS of extra code here, or GH with good graphics just isn't made to be on the 
 PC. Everyone expected GH for PC to be scale-able just like any other good game is, and this was 
 huge letdown.
  
  The other extremely disappointing thing is no DLC, Aspyr said they cant find somewhere to host 
 the media, so hopefully this will be fixed... concidering the Menu says "Downloads Coming Soon" 
 I WILL sell my game on Ebay if theres no DLC.
  
  Overall a good game, like the Gamespot review said, its not for newbs. But if your good with GH, 
 and have a PC that can run it, i would suggest it, as long as you don't mind not having dlc, and 
 hopefully it will come soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThresherJ
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  I'm in love with this game. Absolutely in love. I started with Guitar Hero, reserved Guitar Hero 
 II, got Encore, and picked up this game for my XBox and my PC. 
  If your system can handle this game, it plays like a dream. But if you're anywhere near to not 
 having the requirements, you'll be sorry. I've seen it run on some machines that are just a bit 
 sub-par and it's terrible. On my 2.6 X2, Nvidia 8800 GTS, 2GB DDR2 800 RAM it runs perfect. And 
 on my 19" widescreen LCD at 1440x900 res, it's even prettier :)
  I do get the occasional hiccup that ruins my 100% but I suck it up and play it over and can still 
 nail it.
  The Track list in this game is amazing. The songs just catch you. There are a couple that I'm not 
 too big a fan of, and the bonus songs aren't quite as good IMO as GHII's amazing bonus set. 
  The guitar is still not even close to my favorite. The Xplorer guitar just doesn't cut it in my 
 mind and having to play wired just isn't fun at all. Invest in a XBox controller Wireless adapter 
 and an XBox version of the Wireless guitar and you're golden. Also kinda sucks that the game doesn't 
 ship separately from the controller, because anyone with an Xplorer guitar from GHII for XBox360 
 knows that they don't want another :P
  The Multiplayer leaves something to be desired. On the off chance that you actually connect with 
 someone, if you're in the upper ranks of the skill chart as I am, there's not much challenge out 
 there. I've played numerous songs on Expert difficulty in MP where the other player doesn't even 
 play half the song or I end up winning by 100,000 points or more.
  
  Dragonforce's "Through the Fire and Flames"....
  
  Nearly impossible to beat. :P Although once 
 you learn the ways it becomes a lot easier. I heard the talk about the song before it was released 
 and people were saying "If you can't beat 'Jordan' in Guitar Hero II you'll never beat TTFAF!"
 
  I'm here to tell you, I still can't beat Jordan to this day. But I've conquered TTFAF numerous 
 times. It's do-able if you have patience and outstanding finger agility. :D Practice makes perfect!
 
  
  Overall this game is still amazing. I'd still put a preference on the console counterparts just 
 for the multiplayer, but it's definitely worth the experience to play on your PC. And I'm an XFire 
 hour logging addict so it's awesome to see my hours climbing on that! :D
  
  Definitely worth the buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sentaro
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  I'm a fan of Guitar Hero, the game is great, but there's something that I don't like about the 
 game : due to the large amount of not-so-legendary songs / groups, and the lack of true legendary 
 songs / groups (like Led Zeppelin, Jimmy Hendrix, Deep Purple, Blue Oyster Cult, Def Leppard, AC/DC, 
 more Iron Maiden and Judas Priest songs, etc...) the game does not deserve it's title "Legends 
 of Rock".
  
  I'm hoping for downloadable content to correct this, but otherwise the game is worth it's money 
 (aside for some minor annoyance if you have an old PC because the game is not optimized...) .
  
  Oh! and the Battle Mode sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AKIRA2056
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  I never purchased Guitar Hero before so this is my first one that I tried out (assuming that this 
 one is the best) . Reason why I never bought first or second Guitar hero lies in song list (no MetallicA 
 , Iron Maidden, Scorpions, Slipknot,.. ect) . This one satisfies any real Rock /Metal fan out there. 
 Also according to previous releases guitar is much better every aspect on GH3 (PC version comes 
 with x-plorer which is my favourite :) ) .
  Game looks good bout in graphic and audio aspect, lot of options and variations, nice sound decoding 
 (I am looking forward to song decoder system in close future that will allow us to decode any song 
 and implement any audio floor) ; Only thing that really sucks on Pc version at least is unforgivable 
 system requirements and frame rate that spoils whole fun. This kind of games should run like eagle 
 , but this version really makes me think that my PC is slow junk (i have dual core 3.00GHz, 2,00 
 Gbit RAM, GeForce Gt 7600 GS) . Well since this is PC version I can forgive Activison only (and 
 I mean ONLY) if they release really SOON a patch that will fix these crapy frame rates and in graphic 
 bugs (that appear as result of slow frame rate and refresh rate in game) . I haven't tested online 
 play yet but since one player mode runs with several bugs that slow whole game play I can imagine 
 online mode. I give this game 8.5 with hope of fix patch.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ognen
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Exept Frets On Fire, there weren't realy much rhythm games for the PC. Guitar Hero III, as a revolutionary 
 game, exept from the console version, has a PC version too. 
  
  So, maybe this isn't worth to be said because if you read this review you you probably know this, 
 but I'll just mention it. The point in every guitar hero game is to catch the notes (frets) that 
 come on your screen with a special guitar. It is fast, flexible, and has different level of difficulty.
 
  
  Guitar Hero 3: Legends Of Rock, continues the franchise with brand new songs to play, new ways 
 of playing like the duel mode, and other additional fun stuff. You start as a small band which 
 as the time passes becomes more and more popular. You duel with different bosses, collect money 
 and then buy some new guitars, characters, songs etc...
  
  The songs are different... You can find old songs like Paranoid, and also some brand new like Ruby 
 from the Kaiser Chiefs which are most of the time bonus songs, and aren't in the storyline.
  
  Although I haven't tried any of the console versions, I think I can say that the PC version 
 is pretty different. So it keeps all the great innovation, but the game-play is sort of worse than 
 on the console installments. There are cases when you can miss the frets because the game suddenly 
 stopped or something.
  
  So, Guitar Hero III, keeps all the cool things from the other versions, but is still pretty unoptimized 
 IMO... Maybe a new patch will help. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flamingboard
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  I don't have a 360 of my own so I was really excited to play this game on my PC at home. It installed 
 fine at home but then it won't run because my computer doesn't meet the minimum requirements. My 
 computer can run Crysis for farks sake. If it can't run guitar hero then Aspyr has seriously screwed 
 up. I took it to work today to install it there because I know the computers there can handle it. 
 Then I find out it won't work on 64-bit XP. Aspyr needs to go die in a fire. I don't care if Lars 
 Umalot is on the screen. Just give me the music and the notes. Why the hell do you need a beast 
 of a computer just to rock out? Its a freaking sliding bar with music. I hope this is the first 
 and last time Aspyr touches the code to guitar hero. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lorddessan91
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  That's an excellent game... Since I'm a guitar player in the real world, I really enjoyed playing 
 it :) Tho songs are great, but Dragonforce's "Through the fire and flames" is just impossible to 
 play... The bosses are also difficult at some point, but they are not big deal, you can continue the 
 game without beating the, of course if you win, the price is very high.... The styles of playing, the 
 guitars, the outfits are awesome... The graphics are nothing you've never seen, but sound effects, of 
 course, are great... I want to play it on Xbox360, but on the PC is also great. From one point of view 
 the game is hard, from another is easy... I'll say it's just right :) The game can make everyone's 
 bad day into a good day... you just have to play it :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreenDazed86
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 8:40 pm PT
Review:  Graphically, the game is beautiful on my system (Core 2 Duo E6550 @ 3.00 GHz, 2 Gigs CAS 4 800MHz 
 RAM, GeForce 8600 GTS, NVidia 680i chipset, Windows Vista Home Premium) . I'm running it at highest 
 settings, although not at full resolution (it was a little bumpy, I'm running at 1280 x 720 or 
 something like that, my native res is 1680 x 1050) . It's identical to the next-gen system version 
 visually.
  
  As usual, the songs are amazing, but this time they seem to be significantly harder than previous 
 versions, and you have to be pretty awesome and practice quite a bit to play most of the songs 
 90%+ on Expert. The hammer-ons have been improved significantly, and I can trust them to the point 
 that I use them all the time. 
  
  Career mode is fun and challenging, even if it's the same thing it has always been, aside from 
 the 3 boss battles. The bosses are disappointingly easy to beat up (easier than almost all of the 
 songs) until the final battle on hard, which is extremely difficult for me, even though I can play 
 most of the songs on Expert very well. I still haven't beaten it. The fact that you can't practice 
 boss battle songs (not yet at least, the Xbox 360 version just released practice-able versions 
 of the boss battles) doesn't help either.
  
  What really is going to make this game special is the user-created downloadable content that is 
 going to be available for the PC version. Within a few months, I'm sure someone is going to crack 
 this game and start pumping out custom songs, and we'll be the first to have them before anyone 
 with a console. Online play is also going to be great, because it's free, although no one really 
 seems to be online yet. The online leaderboards are fun to look at too, although I'm sure my scores 
 won't be up there for long after more people start buying this game.
  
  I would highly recommend this game to any PC gamer. If you've got the hardware and you aren't afraid 
 to shell out the $80, go for it.
  
  PS: If you ever play online with S-Factor, that be me.
  PSS: Have fun playing "Raining Blood" 
 on anything higher than Medium.
  PSSS: "Through the Fire and Flames" isn't the only song in this game. When you play online, don't 
 be a jerk and pick it if it's a best-of-three duel. It's too damn long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EoRa_666
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:55 pm PT
Review:  i love guitar hero whom ever invented the game you guys are the best and i really mean it cuz like 
 i love listening to music and on guitar hero you can hear the music and actually play it too a 
 could play this game forever if i could cuz i just love it so much.
  i also like that new game rock band now that game you are pretty much a complete band cuz you have 
 all the equipment to have a real band i just love it OH 
 
  it would be better though if on guitar hero or rock band you could like actually make you songs 
 instead of playing from a list of songs now that would be like the best game ever if they did that 
 and you go on tours and get paid and you just make your way to the top to become a true rock band 
 or guitar hero.
  when i first saw the guitar hero come out i thought that was what it actually did until i got the 
 game it was still cool and stuff just not what i had expected you know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: runt9a
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  When i first saw guitar hero come out, and the fact that it was only for consoles, almost made 
 me go out and buy a ps2 just so i could play that game. When guitar hero 2 came out, i was much 
 closer, but still didn't. I had hoped to god that they would make another guitar hero for PC and 
 lo behold, they did. Bringing this game to PC was the smartest thing activision has done, aside 
 from the Call of Duty series. I haven't even touched the guitar because i've always wanted to shred 
 with my keyboard, and that i am doing. While the game doesn't provide a very deep career mode, 
 what with very few songs to play, the lineup of songs is solid and provides numerous hours of trying 
 to get that extra 1,000 points to beat your old record and trying to nail every song perfect. I 
 haven't done co-op yet, or played online, but i'm sure it provides a much more enjoyable experience.
 
  
  Pros:
  Extremely fun and provides hours of gameplay
  Tracklist is very solid with many good songs
  Shredding with a keyboard
  
  Cons:
  Not enough 
 songs
  Runs sluggish even on my very good system which affects playing sometimes
  
  If i were to tell someone one game to go out and buy this year, this would definately be it. Well 
 worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armadous
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  Since the first GH I've been in love. I used to favor DDR but jumping up and down on 4 different 
 squares just didn't seem to matter anymore after I first held that little plastic toy guitar. However 
 I've never been much of a console person, having only had an xbox which I hardly ever use to play 
 games. I use it extensively as a media center but that's a different story.
  
  I have been forced to compromise. Using Frets On Fire I turned my keyboard upside down and pretended 
 it was the same but at last my time has come. GHIII completely obliterates FoF in the department 
 of scrolling tablature slash mp3 player. The controller can be used to play FoF, which I did try 
 but ultimately felt lacking.
  
  The songs are quite challenging. Playing FoF I was able to consistently score 5 stars on expert. 
 GHIII's Hard is more the Expert level of old. Talking with friends who owned the previous console 
 version have confirmed that for me so it's not just a FoF thing.
  
  As for the performance issues, I couldn't say. I run AMD X2 5600+, 2 gigs DDR2 cas3, Raid 0 WD 
 raptors, and an 8800 GTX. Load times are too quick to read the tool tips, and I have yet to notice 
 a single hiccup. Although if your just looking to play GHIII it would be much cheaper to just buy 
 a Wii :/
  
  I'm just happy at long last to have my own little plastic toy guitar. Although now when I play 
 with friends I can no longer claim "If this were a keyboard I would own". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4starcashier
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  I have always been curious of Guitar Hero... I quietly let Guitar Hero and Guitar Hero II pass by 
 because I don't own a Playstation 2 or XBOX 360... and GH3 came out and they have it for play at 
 my Wal-Mart store, so I played a few songs... pretty good but not good enough for me to buy a system 
 outright and get Guitar Hero for it. I was at a SuperTarget in Ankeny, Iowa today and this was 
 at random, I found it for the PC! I couldn't believe it! I grabbed it and put it in my cart.... my 
 voice of reason didn't even reason it was a direct impulse!
  
  I got it for $79.99 (Prolly a bit more in cost if you buy it at like GameStop or FYE) and got it 
 out of the box and it looked dead on just like it would if you bought it for a gaming system. Now 
 keep in mind that you must have a very powerful computer to run this (I was actually kind of shocked 
 of the system requirements) and it won't run on anything below Windows XP. Other than the ATI Radeon 
 X1050 256MB 3D Card I have in my computer, I got bare bones to the system requirements.... requiring 
 at least 2.8 ghz.... and that's what I got lol. I have an HP a1473w Pavilion with 1.0GB ram at 2.8 
 GHz..
  
  Of course It will play, and it does very well amazingly. I can see it chugging along just BARELY 
 fast enough when they do crowd shots.... when it focuses on the singers then it's perfecto! 
  
  But in the gameplay department.... it is very fun... me and my dorm neighbor buddy were playing 
 it for a few hours taking turns and he was going to go buy the PS2 version if it were USB Compatible... but 
 it wasn't. We had fun while playing and this is a game you could get hooked on easily! And if you 
 think this is an easy game... think again! It has great songs to rock to, but pay attention to the 
 screen! Your fingers could become tongue tied! I reccomend this to anyone who doesn't got a gaming 
 system that has GH on it and wants it really badly! I hope they come out with 1 and 2 someday. 
 And it is exactly like the other versions of GH3.... only it is possible to use your keyboard and 
 mouse to play (sounds retarded but an easy alternative to 2 player mode and not having to buy another 
 guitar!)
  
  Peace out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stabmeagain
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 15, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  I still have yet to buy one the the 3 competeing consoles out right now. I game on my PC, so you 
 know I was thrilled when I found out they were putting out a PC version of GH3. This game did NOT 
 let me down! The graphics are amazing (i have a pretty high end comp) and the gameplay is smooth 
 and man is this game ever addictive haha. But I totally recommend this version of the game to anyone 
 who has the PC specs to run it at max settings. All of the songs are great. The battle aspect of 
 the game is very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corrslite
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 14, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  I bought this last night because my xBox is down with the dreaded three red rings. I thought the 
 PC version would be nice. It's nice, but it eats up my system and the game has some aggravating 
 points. 
  
  First, I have Vista, an Athalon dual 4400+, GeoForce 7600, 2GIG Ram and that ain't enough to play 
 GHIII with all the graphic options. In other words, I have to turn the crowd OFF and the "physics" 
 OFF. (I think the physics is close ups of the guys strutting around the stage.) Although one doesn't 
 usually play GH for these elements, nevertheless on GHIII they are a lot better and more immersive 
 than on GHII. So I wish I had waited for my xBox to get fixed. 
  
  Even with the graphics off and the resolution turned way down the game STILL lags and basically 
 bites compared to the xBox version.
  
  Another big deal is that you don't get the new wireless controller. The PC controller is identical 
 to the white X-plorer controller that comes with the xBox GHII. In fact I haven't even used the 
 controller that came with the PC version: I just unwrapped the game and used my "xBox" controller. 
 The good news about this is that I do have two controllers and we can start to play multiplayer 
 immediately. Except the lagging will pobably worsen.
  
  There is also multiplayer online. But the first time I tried to sign in with my license I got an 
 invalid sign in message. I also have no idea if the songs from the older versions of GH are downloadable 
 for the PC version. If not, that is another drawback.
  
  A major drawback, also, is that the new battle system is not optional. You actually have to battle 
 at least three computer guitar opponents to advance on the medium level. This is particularly perturbing 
 since the third one (basically the devil) will whip your arse on the song which is akin to Charlie 
 Daniel's "The devil went down to georgia." This is about the eighth set. (I bought a lot of songs 
 using the in-game cash system, so I hope I can play them in the free play version, because they 
 aren't showing up at the bottom up my career track.)
  
  I dunno if I like the song selection as well as those on GHII, but if one could get those, then 
 I would give GHIII an 6.5. If I could use the crowd and physics options I would give it a 8. If 
 there was no lagging it would rock and get a 10.
  
  If I had to do it over again, I would have waited for the xBox version. In fact, as soon as my 
 xBox gets fixed, I will probably buy that version for its wireless guitar controllor and the improved 
 graphics, and go back to COD4 on the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sagatbsaint
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 8:17 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock is a music video game and the third full installment in the Guitar 
 Hero series (the fourth title overall) . The game is published by Activision and RedOctane, with 
 Neversoft as the developer for the PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, and Wii consoles, and 
 Aspyr Media as the developer for the PC and Macintosh computers. Due to the acquisition of RedOctane 
 by Activision, Harmonix Music Systems is no longer involved in developing titles in the Guitar 
 Hero series (instead, the company is currently developing the competing game Rock Band) .
  
  As with the previous Guitar Hero games, the player uses a guitar-shaped controller to simulate 
 the playing of rock music by playing notes as they scroll in-time with the music. Guitar Hero III: 
 Legends of Rock is available both individually and in bundles packaged with wireless controllers. 
 Previous Guitar Hero controllers are compatible with this title. Guitar Hero III: Legends of Rock 
 is the first game in the series to feature online play, in addition to existing game modes.
  
  Furthermore, the game includes Slash (of Guns N' Roses/Velvet Revolver) , Tom Morello (of Rage 
 Against the Machine/Audioslave) , and Bret Michaels (Poison) as in-game characters. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
