-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Gun
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/gun/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great presentation features exciting cutscenes and terrific voice acting.
 Intense, gory shooting action.
 Fun horseback riding.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Short storyline isn't made up for by shallow side missions.
 Some noticeably undercooked elements of play.
 Some of the violence and profanity feels too gratuitous.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  8, 2005
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.4
Critic Score: 7.7, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 2,205 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Neversoft Ent.
Genre: Historic Action Adventure
Date:     Nov 9, 2005
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Gun sets you loose in the Wild West, where you can shoot your way through a very brief but entertaining 
 storyline and undertake some decent side missions while you're at it. 

  Life in the Old West must have been gritty, violent, and short if it was anything like Gun, a new 
 Western-themed action adventure from Tony Hawk series developer Neversoft. Featuring an open-ended 
 environment that you can traverse on foot or on horseback, plenty of gory shoot-outs, numerous 
 optional side missions, and an interesting story, Gun initially seems like a 19th-century Grand 
 Theft Auto. Unfortunately, the experience just doesn't last long enough to be savored. Gun's main 
 story missions are exciting, but the main plot is over so quickly that the whole thing just ends 
 up feeling rushed, and the various side missions aren't compelling enough to hold your interest 
 after the end credits roll. So it turns out that a terse, simple title like "Gun" is really the 
 perfect fit for what could have been a great game, if only it had more meat on its bones.  

          Colton White doesn't take long to exact his revenge on the unsavory customers who made 
 his life difficult.     

  Gun is the tale of Colton White, a soft-spoken gunslinger raised by a resourceful old hunter named 
 Ned, made instantly likable thanks to an excellent voice performance by Kris Kristofferson. One 
 day Ned and Colton's hunt lands them on a steamboat carrying some sort of important artifact that 
 Ned seems to know about. However, he's not alone in his knowledge, and as the ship is besieged, 
 Colton barely escapes with his life. He makes his way to Dodge City at Ned's request, and from 
 there embarks on a journey that will put him up against a greedy ex-military railroad mogul and 
 his wicked cohorts. There's a strong cast of characters in Gun, and the 3D cinematic cutscenes 
 are impressively motion-captured and choreographed, making each story mission worth looking forward 
 to if only to see how Colton's misadventures will continue to pan out. Colton will find himself 
 on both sides of the law, allying with a diverse array of different comrades in his efforts to 
 find answers and seek vengeance.  

  Unfortunately, the story hurries along at a breakneck pace. Situations that seem intended to introduce 
 entire chapters of gameplay tend to be resolved almost immediately. For example, at a certain point, 
 Colton is deputized as a peacekeeper in Empire City, the game's largest town. You expect to then 
 undertake a series of sheriff-style missions, but Colton's career path very quickly goes sour as 
 the story jarringly goes in another direction. It blazes on like this until the end credits roll -- maybe 
 six hours after you first begin play, depending on how many side missions you opted to take on 
 and depending on how much trouble you had with the final battle, which is one of the only tough 
 fights at the normal difficulty setting. There's just no time to really get to like (or dislike) 
 the main cast.  

  The mechanics of gameplay certainly are good, and even though there are only a few main story missions, 
 they tend to be diverse and packed with intense action. Gun carefully walks the line between being 
 a run-and-gun shoot-'em-up and more of a realistic, tactical shooter. You get to use all kinds 
 of different authentic weapons, including pistols, rifles, shotguns, sharpshooters, bows, and dynamite 
 in order to take on vastly superior odds, which Colton can overcome because of his excellent marksmanship 
 and his ability to instantly recover all his health by drinking from his flask (what's in that 
 thing?) . Controlling Colton primarily from a third-person perspective, you'll also get to take 
 on ferocious Apache warriors, play with barrels of TNT, fire cannons, and more.  

  Plus, you also get to ride and fight on horseback, making for some high-speed battles. Your horse's 
 hooves are arguably even more dangerous than your firearms, and besides, it can be mightily entertaining 
 to trample your foes, causing their bodies to get flung about like rag dolls. The horse-riding 
 mechanics are fun and well designed, allowing you to shoot rather effectively while mounted. You 
 also get to execute quick sliding turns (an awful lot like handbrake turns in a driving game) while 
 balancing your horse's health with your top speed. You can spur your horse to go faster and faster, 
 but this wears the animal down. Also, with the exception of those times when you run up against 
 a barrier of some sort and just keep running, all the animation on horseback looks very convincing. 
 The only problem is that there's no real sense of horse ownership in the game, as horses are completely 
 disposable. Western heroes like Colton White ought to have their very own trusty steeds, but in 
 Gun, you'll just grab whichever animal is closest to you and won't grow attached to any of them. 

          Not many games get the act of shooting people in the face down pat quite like this one. 
 There's nothing neat and tidy about this action.     

  If you figured there'd be a lot of shooting in a game called Gun, you figured correctly. Colton 
 will typically be up against large numbers of foes, but there's a very wide auto-aim window on 
 his pistols, which lets you easily blast multiple foes even when they're hiding behind cover. Chances 
 are you'll do most of your damage with your rifles, though, since you can aim down the sights of 
 these in a first-person view, which lets you effectively shoot foes from afar. You also have limited 
 access to a quick-draw ability, which slows everything down for a little while and allows you to 
 quickly line up a bunch of deadly shots against groups of foes. Magically, you don't even have 
 to reload during a quick-draw attack, though Colton's pistol ammo is unlimited anyway, and his 
 other ammo types may be replenished by conveniently strewn power-ups. Colton can even go to town 
 with melee weapons like knives and hatchets, easily slicing up large numbers of foes. So the action 
 isn't exactly realistic, but it still feels that way to a certain extent since your foes tend to 
 weave and dodge effectively, and will shout to press the attack when you're caught reloading. Most 
 importantly, the weapons feel like they pack a real punch, and enemies are fun to fight, especially 
 ones on horseback. It's hard to decide whether it's more satisfying to shoot a rider from his mount 
 or to take the mount out from under him.  

  The shooting action is great, though it's not for the faint of heart. The makers of this game must 
 be big fans of HBO's  Deadwood  or something, because the level of violence and general vulgarity 
 in Gun greatly surpasses what you'd probably expect from a typical Western, even if you've seen 
 some of the gorier ones. Gun pays tribute to the classic films in the genre, from the unbelievable 
 rescue from the gallows in  The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly  to the unforgettable last battle (courtesy 
 of a Gatling gun) in  The Wild Bunch . However, Gun isn't just bloody; it's downright gnarly at 
 times, like when you blast a big chunk out of an enemy's head with a clean shot from your rifle. 
 Expect graphic violence, racism, and misogyny in heavy doses during the course of the game. Hey, 
 no one said the Old West was pleasant. But for what it's worth, some of this mature-themed content 
 borders on being gratuitous, since Gun clearly isn't aiming for historical authenticity. You'll 
 realize this from the moment you first catch a glimpse of the main villain's private locomotive, 
 emblazoned with a big, fat skull logo. The game is far too over the top to be taken seriously. 
     

  Apart from the brevity of the storyline, other aspects of Gun feel rather half-baked. For instance, 
 you can purchase a scalping knife, which you can use to finish off dying enemies rather gruesomely. 
 Although, apart from whatever sadistic thrill you might get from this, there doesn't seem to be 
 any point to it at all, since mortally wounded foes are effectively out of the fight, and all the 
 scalps you're ostensibly collecting aren't even quantified as a line item on the statistics screen 
 (which, for reference, records things like number of headshots you've scored) . Furthermore, the 
 free-roaming format of Gun means that you can trot into town and start trouble if you so choose, 
 such as by wantonly killing random townspeople. This causes a "town patience" meter to dwindle, 
 and if you empty it, a "showdown" scenario begins as a posse rolls in to get rid of you. Only, 
 this posse tends to be laughably weak, and should you defeat all its members, the town just goes 
 back to normal, as if you never even hurt a fly. Alternatively, if you get killed, you automatically 
 restart without penalty -- same difference. The world of the game definitely looks pretty, and it's 
 nice to see townspeople milling about, as well as the occasional shoot-out between uppity citizens. 
 But Gun really doesn't reward exploration or experimentation as free-roaming action adventure games 
 ought to do. The more you explore, the less you'll find.  

          The world of Gun initially seems big and expansive, but there's really not a whole lot 
 to it.     

  Gun's assorted side quests can be fun for a while, and they offer a decent amount of variety, since 
 they range from hunting down wanted felons to cattle ranching to competing in poker tournaments. 
 Most every side quest is unique in some way, with its own voice-over narration and basic twist, 
 but these tend to be only a few minutes long, fairly easy, and rather repetitive in spite of everything. 
 For instance, almost every bounty hunter mission simply tasks you with galloping some brief distance 
 before taking on a hoodlum and his thugs. Often you can earn more money by bringing your victim 
 in alive, but all this comes down to is rushing up close and "subduing" your target instead of 
 killing him. The missions end abruptly in this fashion, at which point you can go find another 
 or proceed with the main story missions if you have any left. An onscreen radar display conveniently 
 points out both enemies and destinations of importance, so for better or worse it's very simple 
 to figure out where to go next. At any rate, the side quests in Gun certainly are nice to have, 
 but they're not so fleshed out or enjoyable as to make them anywhere near as good as the story 
 missions.  

  One of the main reasons you might not be compelled to take on side quests is that the rewards for 
 successfully accomplishing them aren't all that necessary. You'll improve Colton's stats for things 
 like gun handling, melee weapons, and quick draw with each side quest you complete, but the effects 
 of these boosts tend to be so subtle as to be barely noticeable. Besides, you can also purchase 
 weapon and health power-ups, and you can find better weapons at the end of almost every mission. 
 In practice, you'll probably be drawn to some of the side quests and be compelled to earn money 
 with which to buy new items and power-ups. However, the game is easy enough on normal difficulty 
 to where you really don't need to worry much about building up Colton's strength. On hard and "insane" 
 difficulty, the challenge is substantially greater, since your foes will deal a lot more damage 
 with every hit. You might want to play on hard mode if normal difficulty seems too easy, but it 
 would have been better if the normal difficulty simply were more challenging overall. The action 
 is that much simpler because story missions tend to have multiple checkpoints, so even if you fail, 
 you'll restart from just a few minutes or seconds before with full health. At least the game isn't 
 frustrating (not for the most part, anyway) .  

  Gun shipped simultaneously for the PlayStation 2, Xbox, GameCube, and PC, and an Xbox 360 version 
 isn't far behind. The available versions are identical in terms of content and very similar in 
 overall quality, exhibiting only the sorts of differences that tend to be intrinsic to multiplatform 
 games such as this. The console versions all support surround-sound systems and progressive-scan 
 displays for improved presentation quality, though the Xbox version looks marginally sharper and 
 cleaner. Meanwhile, the PC version offers all sorts of graphical adjustments, allowing you to take 
 advantage of the latest graphics cards if you happen to have one. All versions of the game have 
 somewhat of an uneven frame rate, but they still offer solid controls. The PS2's stock gamepad 
 is best suited to the control scheme, but it's just about as simple to get used to playing on the 
 other platforms. The PC's default mouse-and-keyboard controls work well, but you may also hook 
 up a gamepad if you like. All versions also let you save your progress at any time.  

          Gun's fun while it lasts.     

  Regardless of which version you play, you'll find that 
 Gun is an attractive-looking game, especially during its noninteractive cutscenes, which display 
 some impressively stylized, nicely animated characters. The rest of the game mostly looks great, 
 too, and it features a good use of realistic physics in addition to plenty of lifelike animations. 
 The sorts of explosions that become more and more prevalent later on in the story are particularly 
 flashy, causing nearby characters (possibly Colton himself) to get flung fast and hard away from 
 the blast, and oftentimes getting flattened against nearby walls. Some noticeable repetition of 
 character models and occasionally sudden frame rate drops do undermine the graphics to a certain 
 extent, though. Other than that, the game's rendition of the Old West is pretty much spot-on, and 
 since it's one continuous stretch of land, you really get the feel for the place. Various lighting 
 effects signifying day and night, wild animals, tumbleweeds (of course) , and other little visual 
 flourishes help make the world of Gun stand out. The game's audio is quite good, thanks especially 
 to the excellent voice acting heard throughout the story. Thomas Jane ( Deep Blue Sea ) is great 
 as the quiet, confident Colton White, and the main villains played by Lance Henriksen ( Aliens 
 ) and Brad Dourif ( Deadwood ) sound at least as wicked and nasty as they look. The music shies 
 away from Spaghetti Western twanging, instead going for an epic feel that the gameplay doesn't 
 really live up to. Apart from that, effects for gunfire, galloping hooves, and the other sounds 
 of the Wild West are pretty much accurate, though they aren't as noteworthy as the voice work. 

  Despite a great presentation that'll likely give a very positive first impression, Gun ultimately 
 offers too little content for it to be a truly satisfying game. Most all of the right ingredients 
 are here in some quantity. But the hastily delivered storyline (which, fittingly, concludes with 
 an incredibly abrupt ending) and the lack of any real depth to the gameworld make Gun much better 
 suited for some quick, fleeting thrills instead of for the long haul.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (146 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Zantozzzz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Well as another PC games we can edit the controls and modify the textures.
  When I saw this game for first time I just saw it but I didn't expect a lot of it. So one day I 
 didn't what game to choose and I bought it and I was very surprised.
  When you set the graphics in the max level you will enjoy it a lot but I recommend you to have 
 a good video card, mine is 256 6200 and sometimes it took a long time to load. So I was doing my 
 first mission and I said "this game is not bad" and it will turn better when I realized that there 
 are cities just like the old wild west, there are also Apache camps, renegades camps, farms, mines, 
 but they are just a few ones, only two cities. So my score is 9.6 out 10 because the storyline 
 is too short. But if you want to make it a long game try to beat in on hard mode. And I am sure 
 that if you like the western genre you will enjoy it a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Glover4Prez
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 7:21 pm PT
Review:  I have heard this game was a fun game, so I decided to buy a few months ago and I was not disappointed. 
 This game shows much crude and violence of the wild west and that was what I was hoping for. This 
 game for PC has great graphics, good gameplay and if you have a controller, the controls can be 
 easy too. But the storyline can be a little short and it can get a little jittery at times which 
 can be annoying especially during big battles. But it has it's own free world, a free western world 
 that allows you to play poker at the local saloon, work as a ranch hand, as a express pony or as 
 a deputy. You also get to do bounty missions for a good amount of money. You can also get to upgrade 
 weapons from the dealer, get new weapons as you go through the main story defeating bosses. I think 
 this a great game with a fabulous voice cast but still needs to work out a few bugs though.
  7.5/10 Good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gooper102
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  Game starts when you're hunting, it's a tutorial in a way.
  When "your dad" gets killed you want to revenge his death...
  It's a lot of gun-works, defending, 
 attacking, fun-killing...
  Graphic is good, really looks like it should, there's blood, 1 shot 1 kill, slow aim helps you 
 in hard situations but only lasts for some time.
  You get to know about treasure, find it, and must kill the boss in gold mine, which is very hard 
 as he dies slow and you die fast.
  There are bows, rifles, pistols, shotguns,....
  You can dig gold for money, be a bounty hunter,.....
  In game you can ride a horse, in one mission 
 you have to race with horse.
  Using slow motion you can kill thieves while you're on the horse.
  Horse helps you voyaging from 
 town to town.
  A lot of mission with TNT, like blowing your way on, blowing up bunkers,...
  In missions you can use different things, like Cannon on ship and in the fort,.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspenmike
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are ok, the game play is fair nothing special, and the horse ridding is choppey and 
 in some parts buged. I like the fact that you can upgrade you guns in this game, and add stuff 
 to help you health. The story is one of the better ones I have seen, and the Acting is great as 
 specially with Kris Kristofferson ( plays in blade, sings country music, and wrote most famus songs) . 
 The voice acting is something almost as good as The Getaway. The game play is choppey and not all 
 that good. The game is all in all good but I wouldnt buy it id rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zakld
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2007 9:15 am PT
Review:  I bought GUN because I was bored. Nothing interesting was coming out and I saw it advertised on 
 TV. I also saw a video review somewhere. The video review said that the game was only worth playing 
 if we really don't have anything else to do. 
  
  It turns out I strongly disagree with such a review. Everything they said was bull. To be fair, 
 it is their personal opinion and everyone is entitled to their own opinion and this just shows 
 how opinions can differ and should be respected. Therefore, you should read a few reviews before 
 deciding to purchase or play a game. Although, I think the video review was bad mouthing the game 
 on purpose.
  
  The game turned out to have a superb storyline which enabled you to have indeibly fun main and 
 side missions. It lets you upgrade your skills so that others are no match for you. After finishing 
 the game I even started shooting innocent people in a town until the town got so pissed off with 
 me that everyone came out shooting at me, but they were no match for my character at that point. 
 
  
  You won't find many Wild West games, and I was hoping this game would inspire more to come out 
 but there doesn't seem to be anything interesting going on in this field. This a niche market and 
 we are all becoming bored of classic shooters and wild west can bring the necessary refreshment 
 in our gameplaying lives. 
  
  I am only thinking between giving it 8.8 and 9.2. The 9 score zone for me is the legendary game 
 zone and I'm not sure if this game fits in there. It does have something missing - I can't quite 
 put my finger on it. Don't get me wrong, it is absolutely brilliant but it is hard to decide whether 
 it is legendary and if that's the only dillema about the game you can be sure it is at least worth 
 trying out.
  
  As I cannot make my mind up, I will give it 9, since I do think it is an absolute 'must play'. 
 It will go into my "Legendary Games" box, but this is perhaps in part because it is one of the 
 first games on this theme and it is in that sense revolutionary and sets the standards.
  
  You gotta play this one!!!
  
  My marking system is as follows:
  
  10 - Absolute Legend
 
  9 - Must Be Played
  8 - Excellent and Worth Your Time
  7 - Worth playing if you have nothing else to play
  6 - worh playing if you have nothing to play 
 and are incredbly bored and have not got absolutely anything else to do. (Barely playable/enjoyable) . 
 
  
  I don't give marks 1-5 as if a game starts sucking I don't finish it, so I only review the games 
 that are barely playable (6) to the absolutely amazingly incredible ones (10) .
  
  I will also probably keep my reviews short as I don't like discovering too much about the gameplay. 
 I only like to give my quick opinion and get on with life.
  
  Best Wishes to everyone,
  
  Zak
  
  (reincarnation) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrizzlyJim
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  I had Gun on my wish list and found a used copy at Half-priced books. I noticed Kris Kristofferson's 
 voice immediately as Ned, the mountainman. The graphics are excellent, and it's a easy, fun game 
 to play. There are several difficult levels like the last one, but if you persevere, you can get 
 it done. What I loved the most is that you have several side tracks you can follow and earn cash 
 catching bad guys or prospecting for gold. I read the report by Indian associations complaining 
 of violence and I feel they're unwarranted. When I shot apaches who were attacking at the bridge, 
 there was nothing on the screen saying do you want to slaughter or scalp anyone. I feel they were 
 very realistic and historical and being one who favors the native Americans, I feel there was nothing 
 derogitory presented. I didn't like that it was a bit difficult to switch weapons at times and 
 sometimes when you try to turn your horse the camera screws things up a bit. But all in all, it 
 was a terrific game. I strongly urge anyone to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lethalscorpion
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 28, 2007 4:42 am PT
Review:  We all have had our favorite Wild West heroes ,from comic books , Tv and movies.
  There&acute; s something mystical about the Wild West. When the only law around was the law of your 
 pistol.
  I have read a few western books and comics with a very cool storyline and seen cool action packed 
 western movies.
  My favorite TV show has always been Walker, Texas Ranger and i really liked the Hayes Cooper&acute; s 
 Wild West parts of it.
  Hayes Cooper was a bounty hunter turned into a Texas Ranger.
  Activision has always produced great action games ( True Crime ) and thisone is another awesome 
 game from Activision.
  Many complain about the short story, but i think that the story is just right , it&acute; s not 
 too short and not too long. Besides Western stories should not be long ,they can get very boring.
 
  If you take your time and not going from mission to mission to take all the bounty hunter missions, 
 sheriff, federal marshall, play poker, ranch missions, pony express, dig gold , go hunting - you&acute; ll 
 get the best of the game and you&acute; ll discover there&acute; s plenty of stuff to do. Difficulty 
 of the game can vary bcause you can choose from Easy diificulty to Insane. difficulty.
  Sound is pretty good and the music is awesome.
  Graphics are good . Western towns look nice but 
 during the shootouts it&acute; s kinda hard to see who is shooting at you.
  If you are getting tired of GTA San Andreas then this is the game to play for a change. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Succumbus
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 16, 2007 9:46 pm PT
Review:  I know most of those games out there today are fabulous and enjoyable , but we all know one thing 
 for certain. A good FPS means a lean combat system with a decent story to put some meat on its 
 bones. GUN is a game that has fairly decent voice acting, nice sounds to it, excellent gameplay, 
 and a good story thats bound to take you on more with the game.
  
  If only, If only, the game was too short. It had a good story, fun, quick paced combat, and a nice 
 selection of upgrades and powerups for your weapons, horse, quickdraw (a slow motion system used 
 to kill mutiple enemies at once with only the pistols) and many other useful features in the game. 
 If activision took the story a bit further and didnt just build it up then bring it down with a 
 steep drop, it would have been a game worth playing for a while.
  
  Side missions after that seem a bit bland and repetitive, even the though the combat system can 
 be addictive. I must admit, getting bored and going around town starting up fights can be entertaining, 
 but just not enough.
  
  If they added more side missions, maybe some more civilian textures, and lengthened the story, 
 it would be a far more enjoyable game to play.
  
  Is it worth buying and playing through?
  -Definately, its graphics arent too shabby as well. 
 I replayed the game 5 times through, catching new things every time and having fun shooting it 
 up with enemies using the weapons I just upgraded or recieved from defeating a tough boss.
  
  Its a great game with good value, so, Ill give it the rating it deserves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefycake
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Considering the fact that there are dozens of games based on certain timelines, such as Futuristic, 
 WW2, Vietnam war, Medieval and Roman times, the old west deserve a spot in videogaming. GUN, developed 
 by Activision and also by Neversoft, ( the folks that brought you Tony Hawk games) is a 3rd person 
 adverture/action game taking place in the old West in the late 1800. The story is about a young 
 man named Colten White, raised in the wilderness with his old pa Ned. They Hunt, shoot, ride horses 
 and make trades to survive. Until one day while boarding a boat called the Morning Star something 
 goes terrible wrong. The boat is attack and destroyed by old riders and shooters, and Colt's pa 
 get killed. Colten wakes up unsure whats just happen, with only his gun by his side, Colten venture 
 out for revenge for what they did to his pa. GUN, gives the player a feel of what its like to be 
 in the old west. Much like and old Spaghetti Western film, you'll experience all sorts of things. 
 Colten will encounter many characters, travel to several towns, and accomplish mission. GUN is 
 obviously a shooter game, ( as the title states) where you'll be acquinted by dozens of great old 
 western shooters and weapons to your pleasure. Everything from Colts, Shotguns, rifles, dynamites, 
 knife, bows and arrows and etc. The gun fights are rather fun and sometime can be challenging depending 
 on the difficulty. There also a feature where Colten can slow down time to take down more baddies, 
 known as Quick Shot The characters are another key factor in GUN. Although there are
  many character Colten is introduced, a majority of them will get killed in some way. The voice 
 acting for the characters is awesome. Notable Colten White is performed by Thomas Jane the same 
 man who played the Punisher, along with Kris Kristoffersen and Ron Perlman. The music is pretty 
 good, having the Western movie feel to the game. GUN's presentation is impressive, decent graphics 
 and very nice cut scene, as if it were straight out of Hollywood. Backgrounds and characters look 
 good too. It seemed as though Gun could have been a sure hit for many, but unfortunately didnt 
 do aswell as expected. Why is that? For one thing, the storyline seems interesting, however the 
 problem is that its rushed way too fast. Unlike others games which allows you appreciate the people 
 and the surrounding, GUN rushes plot and actually makes you forget about other character you met. 
 One scene your protecting a town from a rebel attack, the next your trying to fix a bridge!? Another 
 problem is that many felt GUN was way too short and side missions were not much of interest. Consisting 
 of Wanted mission, delivery and Gambling mission and etc.
  Another problem too was its portrail of Native Indians you fight in the game, but i want into details 
 on that However in my opinion, GUN wasnt really that much of bad game, the way i see it it should 
 have done much better. Gun to me felt like i was watching a movie. The characters seem like they 
 came right out of a John Wayne western or maybe a Clint Eastwood classic. I'll admit that the game 
 does have its flaws and it maybe short, but still GUN was enjoyable. You should give GUN a try, 
 even if youre not a western fan or you red all those rumors about the game. Give it a try, if not..... just 
 take a gulp from a old whisky canster and enjoy the sunset. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splintercell_75
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 7, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  This was one game that I highly anticipated. After reading some good review on the game and playing 
 a dead beat western shooter from Groove Games (ALL GAMERS STAY AWAY FROM ANY GAME WITH A GROOVE 
 GAMES LOGO!!!!! UNLESS YOU LIKE WASTING YOUR TIME, MONEY AND MIND) I looked for a reputable western 
 themed shooter from a solid company such as Activision (Thank God for the COD franchise!) . Anyway 
 I was surprised that it was a third person perspective primarily for I was hoping for a first person 
 perspective like Call of Juarez. This played very similar to The Punisher by THQ and the gameplay 
 was quite fun after you got the hang of it. There is a first person perspective in that when you 
 do aim with a rifle or sniper rifle you do go into a first person mode. Also another way is when 
 you are engaged in quick draw - very effective for taking down masses of enemies. The story is 
 basically a western movie where you have voice talents such as Thomas Jane and Tom Skeritt leading 
 a cast of characters. You play the role of Cole and you must find the truth about who you really 
 are. The gameplay is good and rewards accuracy in that if you do manage to decapitate a person 
 you will be rewarded for that . If you manage to dismember a vilian you will be rewarded with bonuses. 
 Throughout the game there are side missions one can attempt. These are beneficial in that you can 
 earn money to upgrade your weapons and items as well as earn more points in riding, quick draw 
 and gun handling. The graphics are good and the characters and environments are drawn well. The 
 main story is not that long. It took me about one and a half days to complete the main story. There 
 is really no point in attempting any side missions after completing the main story as it is basically 
 a waste of time, unless you are a die hard gamer and must complete every aspect of the game. All 
 in all a solid shooter and I shall be looking forward to playing Call of Juarez to compare the 
 two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Canadiancowboy2
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2007 3:31 am PT
Review:  In this game called GUN you play as Colton white and when you father is killed on a steam boat 
 by a bunch of bandits you go out to find out who had killed him. Gameplay: It's very neat I really 
 liked about this game was the quick draw action but it's kind of strange that you don't have to 
 reload but i liked it anyways. I found that some of the missions in the game is really short and 
 could of had a deeper story to it or haveing more to do to accompish that mission. The side quest 
 do not make the game any long you can easly go them in 5-10 minutes tops. There is horse back ride 
 which is pretty cool because you get to trample people and i found it easy to shoot people on horse 
 back. Also there is alot of blood when you shoot your opponet or slash them with your Bowie knife 
 or tamahawk. There are different level of difficulty so you can try your skills a few time. Other 
 then this the gameplay is quite enjoyable and satisfaying and plays like a WIld WIld West Grand 
 Theft Auto game
  
  Graphics: They are not the Greatest but they are still very detialed. The Cinamatics coulld of 
 been a little better but it was still nice to watch.
  
  Value: Once you played it though once you may want to play it though again though the different 
 difficalty settings.
  
  In the end this is a great game but it's a little short. I hope that the company will make a second 
 one with a longer story more blood and gore and different strory. I give this game 8.5 out of 10 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 1, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  In Gun you play as the character Colton white where you are searching for the person who murdered 
 your father. It turns out that he is half europian half native american and finds out who killed 
 his father from this native who was there that his dad got killed. The person who had kills his 
 dad was this evil office turned minor guy called ..... kinda forgot his game it's been a while 
 since I played the game. Gameplay: anyways about the gameplay, The gameplay is great, it's a Third 
 person old west style shooting. You can a range of weapson like the knife and toamahawk to duel 
 pistals to old fergenson rifle. There is this mode were you get to slow down time and shoot the 
 hell out of everybody and it seems that you never need to reload in that mode. Also this is a open 
 game meaning you can go anywhere you like just like in the Grand Theft Auto games. If you walk 
 on foot from point A to point B it will take to long so there are horses around for you to use. 
 In between the story you can do a bunch of bounty hunting but that dose not do much to lengthen 
 the game because the core story of the game is a little short, you can propbrably finish it in 
 about three to five hours after that there is nothing eles to do but do any more bountys you did 
 not do and just wonder around. To band there is no Multiplayer mode for GUN
  
  Graphics: The Graphics are pretty good, they are kinda like the Grand Theft Auto graphics but more 
 poished and realistic. The cut scence are very nice too it looks very real and sometimes very brutal.
 
  
  Sound: The sound is great, voice acting is well done and the gun fire is fine but the explotions 
 they could of used a little bit more work on.
  
  Value: There is not much value in this game after you finish it. There is no multiplayer mode and 
 for the single player you done with it in about 2-5 hours. You might want to play it again but 
 yeah it's short.
  
  All in all this game is to short, the characters could have have even more deep development it 
 kinda seemed just on the surface kind of thing. All in all this was not a bad game it was just 
 to short. I give this game 8 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VercettiTommyy
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 25, 2007 11:41 am PT
Review:  Action games are allways a nice way to spend your gaming time,&amp; the GTA-s were almost the best. Experience 
 now a GTA, but in the Wild West. The graphics are good, but they could have been better (there are 
 some awfull designed lanscapes) . The sound is simply superb: from the sountrack, sound effects to 
 the extreamly good voice acting, best ever. I mean, just listen to Colton's or Reverend Reed's voice 
 &amp; you'll see what I'm talking about. No cars, but horses. With horses you go from city to city 
 or explore the hunting fields or so. Of course, you can walk on foot too. Experience intense action, from 
 classic shoot-outs to train assaults, stagecoach defence, sieging a fort, escaping from prison, blowing 
 up buildings, mine shootouts, sniper fights, horse pursuits, hunting, gold mining, catching guys from 
 wante posters, etc. Some skills to upgrade &amp; more weapons to upgrade &amp; unlock. But the game 
 is short, despite the very interesting story. You really feel in the Old West, but not as in Call 
 of Juarez. I mean it's a great game, It's better than Owtlawz or Dead Man's Hand (great games, too) , but 
 Call of Juarez beats them all... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgg8768
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2007 4:04 am PT
Review:  This game is often described as being Grand Theft Auto on horseback. I don't think this description 
 does justice to this game.
  
  GTA is much harder and frustrating. You spend 2 minutes driving from point A to point B to try 
 to complete a 30 second mission. Since the missions are pretty hard you keep trying again and again. 
 So most of the game is spent driving down the same road to get to the same mission. Boring and 
 frustraing...
  
  Gun is a much easier game and far less repetitive. And the opportunity to ride horseback is a pleasant 
 change. The concept may be similar to GTA but the game feels a lot different. And if you're unsuccessful 
 you can try again where you left off. I played the game on easy mode and even though it was generally 
 straight forward I still had to re-play certain parts of the game several times. So it wasn't too 
 easy and there are 2 additional modes of difficulty any way. Overally, it was easy enough to be 
 fun but not so easy that I felt insufficiently challenged/satisfied with completing each mission.
 
  
  I found I generally completed the game at the rate of 10% every two hours, so most players should 
 get between 15 to 20 hours gameplay out of it, depending on how many of the optional (and generally 
 worthwhile) side quests they do.
  
  I find most games get boring about half way through, simply because they're too long. So I don't 
 agree with gamespot's criticism of the length and think more games should be made this way.
  
  I also like the wide variety of different types of missions. The game never got boring.
  
 
  But I certainly did not find it addictive enough to want to play for hours on end. It's more like 
 the type of game you play for 2 hours after work.
  
  At the very end it is hard and I didn't bother completing the very final part.
  
  This is a 
 great game if you're looking for some light hearted horseback, cowboys and Indians fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 14, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  I have to say I really never liked Western flicks.. and the only one I did like was Tombstone. 
 But this game made me feel a powerful hope to Western Style games. Yes, its gory and violent.. 
 but the government never really had power in the wild west . So vigilantism was pretty common (I 
 assume) . Graphics: Pretty good.. I would say it lacks the hi-def of other games in 2005.. and the 
 support of widescreen isn't there. So if you have a widescreen monitor you will get a distortion, 
 but you get used to it. :)
  
  Sound: Excellent! Voice acting and weapon/horse sounds were very convincing.
  
  Gameplay: Excellent 
 as well, I had no difficulty playing the game with the default controls, and anyone playing a 3rd 
 person shooter would feel right at home. Value: This is where it is good but not great. There are 
 levels of difficulty but that is about it.. no alternate ending, no side quests you can run through 
 in other difficulties, etc. Basically if you played it totally once.. your pretty much done. Tilt: 
 I give this game a solid 8... for being a great game that I will most probably play again sometime 
 in the future :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Idiom
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 11, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Its not a massive game, about 10 hours to beat it (100% on all quest types, not just main quest) 
 but to be fair thats about average for an action game these days so I wont mark it down especially 
 because of that. However the plot is a bit thin and they could of done much more with it.
  The game itself is fine technically, bar the odd graphical glitch where if you gallop your horse 
 into a new area too quick you can get there before the texture for the ground loads and find yourself 
 briefly walking on sky.
  The strong points of the game are the horse riding which works really well but does take a little 
 getting used to and the side quests which are very varied. It does feel like there is a big hole 
 in the game's content though as nearly all the action takes place outside, most decent westerns 
 I've played have heavily focused on inter-building gun fights in small towns and i really missed 
 that.
  Also the main map/game area is a bit on the small side, especially as its supposed to represent 
 the route from dodge Kansas to Mexico.
  
  It is fair to say you need a reasonable system to play the game on high settings without too much 
 jerking, you really want and amd64 or above with 1gb ram and a 7600 or above graphics card so don't 
 be fooled by the low system specs the manufacturer recommends.
  
  Conclusion: Its a great way to waste a weekend if you're bored, pick it up cheap, have a blast, 
 then put it back on the shelf and forget about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haris82
Rating: 2
Date: Jan 27, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Yea, doesnt mather how fun this game is. Box says you need 256 ram and 32mb graphic card. When 
 in fact you need 5000 ram and dual 256mb cards and dual procesor of 3ghz. And dont expect it to 
 run smothly more than 15 minutes even than. Just dont bother with this game before they fix all 
 the memory leaks with some sort of patch, its not playable no mather what pc you got. I even went 
 trough trouble uppdating to latest drivers and all that, it doesnt help. My pc can run Wow, Half 
 life 2 and Day of defeat: Source on highest settings yet it cant run this on lowest posible settings 
 it has without becoming so lagy that its unplayable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chuck10000
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 3, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  unlike me. well here is the problem, after playing it for about 40 minutes it automaticly shuts 
 off, i wonder what the frick? but other then that, i can say that i do enjoy western games almost 
 as much as the movies. the graphics are realistic with the rare glitch where it looks like you 
 are standing on a sky. the sound is also realistic and the story is well played out. the value: 
 this review was shortly after christmas, guess what i had to pay (yes gamers, i pay for my games (except 
 christmas) . so i keep havijng fun with this game and it is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronygreat
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 2, 2007 3:46 am PT
Review:  The missions are fun. This game presents a GTA style gameplay i. e. free-roaming. When off story 
 line missions, you can wander around looking for extra missions which the game has in plenty .There 
 are errands to be run for the Sheriff, Poker tournaments to played, mails to be delivered and lots 
 more. And finishing the last storyline mission sure gives pleasure. The best part of the game is 
 the horse riding which you get to do plenty of since its the only way to get around the game. The 
 music and sound is really key as well. They could almost make a soundtrack. If you are a fan of 
 westerns, you absolutely must play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackFunk
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 28, 2006 1:20 am PT
Review:  I picked this game up when it had dropped from the original price down to about EUR 15. I waited 
 this long because I'd already read that the game was pretty short, which is very true. It took 
 me 7 hours to finish the game.
  
  Now my impression and review.
  
  Although I am not a big wild-west fan, I do like some of the classic movies (Once Upon A Time In 
 The West, Pale Rider, etc) . The game puts you in the role of a gun slinger avenging his father. 
 Of course the plot is pretty standard, the game offers some free roaming in between missions allowing 
 additional character build-up (yes, there's some miniscule character improvement) .
  
  It's fun to ride horses, shoot guns, do some fast drawing. On the other hand though, most, if not 
 all, of the AI is pretty basic. The missions, both from the main plot line and the side missions 
 are pretty easy to achieve, especially since the radar always shows you where to go.
  
  If you find it in your bargain bin, assume your buying a maximum of 10 hours of fun. I didn't see 
 any replay value, there's no multi-player. After you finish the main plot line, there's the possibility 
 to continue playing but with hardly any purpose but to shoot some bandits and finish the final 
 few side missions (which are really getting too repetitive in the end) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chipn66
Rating: 4.7
Date: Nov 20, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  You need a hand held game control to be any good at horse back missions (pony express) . You can 
 not play poker when ever you like the game decdes for you far &amp; between. Most Important the 
 save games don't work like they should you have to go way back, it gets boring real quick when you 
 have to do that . 2 things of interest hunting with the Indians &amp; learning to herd cattle. 
 I did here this game is much better for console game play and I've heard they worked out some of 
 the bugs I guess that's why the price for the console versions can stil command up to $50.00 .It 
 really could have been so cool, to bad. P. S. Voices done by well none Actors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sigphilwilson
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 17, 2006 7:58 am PT
Review:  I am a huge fan of the wild west so my review will tend to lean in that general direction. I was 
 skeptical on how good Activision could portray the wild west in a game. They have done a very good 
 job. You get so engrossed into the game that you almost feel as though you are John Wayne! The 
 game play is a little tricky at first. The best part of the game is the horse riding which you 
 get to do plenty of since its the only way to get around the game. The music and sound is really 
 key as well. They could almost make a soundtrack. If you are a fan of westerns, you absolutely 
 must play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AmarJ
Rating: 8.1
Date: Oct 25, 2006 11:44 pm PT
Review:  Yeehah ! Ride horses, buy merchandise, kill baddies or simply roam free in hunt of gold, this game 
 has it all. Combined with a wild, awesome and supense storyline, the gameplay feels great. The bad 
 is that the game is brutal but none-the-less enjoyble. The missions are fun. This game also presents 
 a GTA style gameplay i. e. free-roaming. When off story line missions, you can wander around looking 
 for extra missions which the game has in plenty .There are errands to be run for the Sheriff, Poker 
 tournaments to played, mails to be delivered and lots more. And finishing the last storyline mission 
 sure gives pleasure. All in all this game is a good short one to play but this ain't as addictive 
 a third person as Max-Payne or it doesn't match the qualities of GTA but still it's good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krazyorange
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 18, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  To keep it short, Gun was something to be played when in a mood that is not easily provoked by 
 frustrating bosses and stupid mission requirements. Also, you might want to be in the mood for 
 wild west action and a glorious story. If the aforementioned mood applies, then Gun is a wild action 
 romp through the west of yore, complete with injuns, hookers, alcohol, poker, and the law. I did 
 beat the game in 7-8 hours, but this could partly be due to the fact that I beat nearly every game 
 I put my mind to in this amount of time, or I only completed approximately 52% of the game (the 
 main story plus a couple of poker games) . Replay is moderate, the graphics are from 2003, but in 
 summation, Gun is definitely worth it for $15 and a few hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deus_ex_2000
Rating: 7.7
Date: Sep 10, 2006 11:52 pm PT
Review:  First things first, the game is very good and is very appealing. The story is solid, the voice 
 over is perfect, the sound effects are awesome, the gameplay is good with varied missions but the 
 short comings is the animated acting. Its .... let me just say that its very bad. The cutscenes 
 are nice but the NPCs' body movements lacks emotion and is a total let down especially since the 
 voice acting is so good. The graphics are perfect. The engine is well optimised so you can run 
 this game with near high settings with a relatively low-medium end PC like the P4 2.6ghz, 1gb RAM 
 and the Nvidia Geforce 5950 (I played this game on FX 5200 8x AGP 256mb and 6600 256mb 8x AGP cards) The 
 performance was much better on the 6600 but the 5200 was quite capable of handling this game on 
 high settings at 800*600 with 25-30 fps and there were occasional drops in frame rates during heavy 
 battles. Everything is near picture perfect and its a joy to roam the "wild wild west" even though 
 the landscape is small (but big enough) . The sounds are good as well. The guns perfect and like 
 I've already said, the voice over is very good. The echos however are not well replicated. The 
 gameplay is good. The missions are varied and the side quests are pretty good. The game's learning 
 curve is just right and makes you feel right at home. The battles are nice but you tend to do the 
 same things like going into the first person view to aim and stuff. There's a new feature like 
 the bullet time but here, its called "quick draw" and enabling it takes you into a first person 
 view with a pistol and there's a simple but effective targeting system which auto-locks on the 
 target. Its a joy to use since the effects are good. Well, a game besed on the westrn life style. 
 What can I say except that it tries to do too much but comes up short. Nevertheless, this is a 
 pretty solid game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kr00k3d
Rating: 7.8
Date: Aug 23, 2006 3:05 pm PT
Review:  I GOT DIS GAME N IZ VERY FUN ESPECIALLY QUICK DRAW BUT IT IZ WAY 2 SIMPLE EVEN THA LAST BOSS FIGHT 
 IZ EAZY I COMPLETED IT IN 3 DAYZ OF 3 HOUR SESSIONZ IZ VERY SHORT, THE GRAFIX R GUD N THE SOUND 
 IS GREAT DUNNO WHY DEY MADE DIS A FREE ROAMING GAME BECAUSE THERE IS NOT MUCH 2 EXPLORE OR DO BUT 
 RIDING A HORSE IS MUCH MORE FUN THEN I EXPECTED AND U CAN EVEN JUMP ON IT. THE FIRST MISSION GETZ 
 U UP 2 DATE WITH HOW 2 KILL PEEPZ AND IT WILL WERK ON A LOT OF GRAFIX CARDZ I HAV A RADEON X300 
 AND IT WERKZ WELL ON LOW SETTINGZ STILL AFUN GAME, DAS MA REVIEW SO PEACE OUT HOMIEZ. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dartman1964
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 21, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  The game had a few graphics issues. I found that when running the horse hard comming into a town 
 the back ground graphics shut down and had to stop and wait for them to cacth up. Not sure that 
 all of the head shots had to explode the heads though. Made it hard to scalp them. 
  
  I found that the map was small and the mssing didnt pay enough. But then again there wasn't that 
 many upgrades to worry about. I bought all of the upgrades didnt complets all of the hunts and 
 came up 5 gold pils short and still had over $300.00 left when the game was over with nothing more 
 to buy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gaunlin
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  Gun is just GTA in the 17th century. Too bad that they didnt make a multiplayer mode online. The 
 campaign could also be improved a little.
  
  The cinimatics make the game good enuff to easily be turned into a movie.
  I want a seriese of 
 these games.
  I want online play.
  I want more options at the trade store.
  I want more costume options.
  I want more fighting styles.
  I dont want to fight 1 or 2 bandits... I 
 want 50!!!
  I want longer gameplay
  It needs a little work on the graphics (especialy texture details & bumpmaps)
  It needs alot 
 of work on the physics engine: jumping doesnt look rite
  Other than that the game is very addictive especially when it only has SP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bharrison911
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 7, 2006 9:20 pm PT
Review:  If you have any interest for a western style action game similar to a GTA gangster game, then this 
 is the game for you. The story line is great, the dialogue is incredible and the actors chosen 
 were well suited. 
  
  The graphics and storyline were fantastic if you love western movies. GUN has a GTA type feel going 
 through mission after mission that keeps the storyline moving. Also like GTA, there are a number 
 of side missions that help you achieve different levels of abilities. That is probably the only 
 place that is lacking. Although some of the side missions are a lot of fun and well worth going 
 through, some of them really suck and yet if you don't do them, your abilities might not be high 
 enough farther into the game. 
  
  The only other area that I was not real fond of was all the horse riding that was required when 
 going through each of the missions, whether they be side missions or main storyline missions. 
 
  
  For all those who love a good action game and love westerns, this is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdulrahiem
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 7, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are pretty good at times and stunning at others. Character models are all nicely detailed, 
 although the same models are reused too often to give you the feeling of a truly populated towns. 
 The environments are fantastic. Riding along mountain canyons with a harsh sun beating down on 
 you and strolling along placid lakes all contribute quite a bit to the game's mood. While the actual 
 world isn't quite as big as it first appears, you'll still want to explore its beauty. The game 
 starts with you out hunting animals with your father, Ned. Soon enough you find yourself roaming 
 the great Wild West scenery whilst seeking revenge.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metamorbis
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 7, 2006 7:33 am PT
Review:  I first heard about Gun through one of my friends, who described it as, "GTA gone western". Being 
 of fan of GTA, I decided to try it out, but what I found was that the only thing that you can compare 
 the two on is the open-ended worlds. Different game play, different replay value, different quality, 
 all are much worse than GTA.
  
  You have your standard weapons, your pistols, your shotguns, your rifles, which all deliver very 
 realistic and fun-to-watch head shots. Ammo is scarce (except for your pistol (s) which there is 
 unlimited ammo) and there is also a quickdraw mode. This is where the game starts to get a little 
 too easy for its own good. In quickdraw mode, you bring out your pistol and everything slows down 
 so you can easily pick off enemies. What makes it even easier is that there is an autoaim feature 
 which targets right in the middle of their head.
  
  Besides being too easy, the game's side missions are pretty lame. I don't know about you, but I 
 don't want to waste my time getting some fat guy's lunch in 20 seconds before he colapses. 
  
  For completing said missions, you gain stat points. However, I have never noticed any difference 
 in my character's actual "marksmanship" or any other stat (with the exception of horse) . You do 
 get money as well, but the upgrades are usually not worth buying and some are just complete ripoffs 
 altogether. One example is the scalping knife, which makes it possible to scalp fallen enemies 
 and hear them scream in agony, but that's it. I would imagine it possible to sell back scalps, 
 or feed them to my horse, or something. But no, I just wasted $50 on something that spews VERY 
 fake looking blood all over the place. 
  
  The graphics are very good (except the blood, which looks like silly string) and the character 
 models are excellent. The bosses are pretty boring, and also bizarre because I have never met anyone 
 who can survive 10 shotgun blasts to the head.
  
  Overall, this is a disappointing game with a good story, but lame game play, and even lamer side 
 missions. I finished the main story in about 4 hours and the entire game (including all side missions) 
 in about 7, so if you're looking for a game to keep you entertained for a long time, look VERY 
 far away from Gun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamingworldwide
Rating: 6.2
Date: Aug 1, 2006 5:09 pm PT
Review:  I have just finished the game yesterday and it turned out to have a good story since the story 
 was made by the person who did Legend of Zorro's story, thus making it like a blockbuster movie 
 into a game that you can play. Although it has a good story there are consistent loading between 
 areas that happen every o say 30 sec on a horse. Also the gameplay is tho sloppy and easy. At the 
 beggining of the game it is a bit hard to aim and shoot so you would have to configure the mouse 
 to run smoothly. This game is put into a third person shooting perspective which doesnt always 
 act too well in games because of the camera... and the only first person action is when you zoom 
 in on a rifle or sniper which is hard to aim the gun to hit a person in zooming mode. The game 
 seems to easy since there is a little helper called auto aim where if ur just a bit close to the 
 body it would show the crosshair in red and stay locked on the person until he goes off the crosshair. 
 Overall this game is only good for people who like stories more than gameplay, if you want you 
 can buy this game for $20 which is a pretty good price but if you ask me i would wait till its 
 less, way less like $10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: secondomen
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 11, 2006 11:21 pm PT
Review:  I havent finished the game yet and the few hours I have spent with it I have enjoyed. The gore 
 is very pleasing to the eyes. When you manage to land a headshot it rewards you with a great animation 
 of blood and gib. The aiming is sloppy for a 3rd person perspective game but the aim sight is huge 
 so u have a greater chance of hitting your target. The quick draw mode is great for mid range fights 
 but worthless in close range. The camera is not perfect and Colton gets in the way more than I 
 would like. Some smoke effects also block your view but not the NPC's who continue to pelt you 
 w/ arrows and bullets. I run a P4 3.6, 2 gigs of RAM, and a Radeon x800xt and the game runs choppy 
 at some pointsand makes it unplayable. Most of these slow downs happen when I am coming into a 
 new area or exiting, entering a building. My x800xt isnt listed as a supported GPU but it would 
 be nice that a game that is just over a year old did support current cards. For $20 the game is 
 worth it just make sure you have the reccomended system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidextreme
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 10, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  I bought the game because I was intrigued by the games concept. A 3D action-adventure game gun-slinging, 
 set in the old wild west. I like the idea, but does it cut it?
  
  The first time I played GUN I was impressed by its in-game tutorial. I like also its intriguing 
 movie introduction. As I finish the first missions, I notice the level was not really that impressive, 
 in fact, its disappointing. Yeah, the introduction and the concept bought me, but the delivery 
 was poor. The developer should have invested more time on the level design. There are times when 
 you are riding a horse, it can get stuck on some part of the level.
  
  Back to the good side, the game presented a unique way of improving character and weapon upgrades 
 (yes, upgrading your weapon handling) . Cool enough, the character escapes the common revitalizing 
 items such as magic potions and food found near the dead enemy or an ancient, fungus filled, dirty 
 barrel. You can revitalize your health with shots of whiskey. (Whiskey has actually contains anesthetic 
 substance and the alcohol can sterilize wounds and surgical equipment.)
  
  Matrix mode. Yes, unfortunately, the game has a slow-motion mode (another matrix rip-off) but then 
 again, the execution was fair enough. Gun draws? Yes.
  
  The game contains one main story plot that you can choose to proceed or finish the side quests 
 first. (Similar to Fable and GTA) then again, I only hoped the side quests was somewhat related 
 to the main plot. Because I felt like I am just wasting my time on them.
  
  The mini games were fun. I like the poker game.
  
  Overall, the game is fair enough to play 
 with. But I must comment on how much time the developer put into the level. The graphics is ok, 
 when you turn it all on in the options.
  
  For my conclusion, I like the game concept and fair execution. It does cut it in a way, but some 
 part of the game smells partially cooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voltameup
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 30, 2006 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Visually- Graphics quite nice even on my older computer having to turn down the graphics a bit. 
 Characters during cinimatics are animated really well, with good character expression, and fluent 
 body movement. The level design is good dipicting the raw dusty wild west realistically and with 
 a nice bloom affect. Character animation during game play could of been slightly better though 
 still good, they could of captured it a little closer to realism if the had added animations for 
 "going from a walk to run, run into a jump, stoping and skiding in the middle of a run etc."
  
  Gameplay- First of all the combat is really good in this, it gives the player some nices skills 
 to use against enermys. Rather than having to expose your entire body from cover like in many 3d 
 shooters, you can peer around corners with weapon in hand so to not expose body and quickly duck 
 back into cover for safety. The creates a nice depth to the combat and a more realistic aproach 
 compared to 3d shooters to which u can be shot endless amount of times and not die. In gun one 
 must rely on skill and cover to survive. 
  
  Another gameplay element of gun is riding horse, its ok but i think its quite average, cause it 
 doesnt create a good sense of riding a horse. You have to push in a direction to move the horse 
 forward, the game "Shadow of the Collussus" did this perfectly having to tap X to get your horse 
 to move forward and push left or right to direct him. I believe this works alot better than guns 
 approach, because you arent the horse itself but the man ontop of it controlling it therefore pushing 
 forward does not reflect the reality of controlling a horse the man has to do some action to get 
 it to move taping x so the man will apply a little kick to move the horse forwards seems alot better. 
 The characters movement itself is ok, the platforming could be heaps better, cause the jump is 
 bad and there's no grab onto ledges, every games of this type needs this. 
  
  The freedom to explore a large map like GTA is a good quality of GUN.
  
  The story is quite 
 good although probably the biggest lacking of this game is its length, its fairly short, and levels 
 themselves are quite shortlived. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jafarthegreat
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 29, 2006 3:23 am PT
Review:  It is one of the best cowboy games ever made. i love it. if the graphics would be a bit good, this 
 game could be the THE GAME OF THE YEAR. the main character is really smart. the AI of the game 
 is awesome . espescially the AI of horse riding is impressive. other charaters are also nicely 
 made. the soundtrack is nice, atleast gives a feeling of that particular time. the enviroment is 
 beautiful too and is very relavent to the period of the game. guns introduced are well and good. 
 overall the game is great. i liked the game and i suggest everyone to buy and play it for it is, 
 though a short one, but a very interesting game for all game lovers. i played it and have experienced 
 the game and am very happy to play a game like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sniperoo
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 21, 2006 5:41 pm PT
Review:  I had higher hopes for Gun when I first got it. I haven't played a "Western" style game in a long 
 time (I think the last one just involved people appering out of saloons and you had to point and 
 shoot) and I was looking forward to seeing something new and interesting. Overall it is a fun experience 
 but it seemed to me that it was mainly just going back and forth across the map to complete missions. 
 It seemed also that every possible mission they would send you to the other side of the map. The 
 game's storyline was good but it just lacked something and made it feel basically like a take off 
 of Grand Theft Auto in the old west and with less options. Maybe it was just me but I got bored 
 of it after a while and found it a little to easy to win. So... my summary is Grand Theft Auto 
 + Horses + not wanting parents to complain about content + ranch hand = Gun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 17, 2006 5:32 am PT
Review:  GUN is a wonderful game from Activision, that was developed by the people who make Tony Hawk for 
 the consoles, Neversoft. Many have under-rated this game, due to the fact that it's about 10 hours 
 long, but in my opinion, the story would have been compromised if it were stretched out. Also there 
 is the point that this is Neversoft's second game that isn't Tony Hawk (Spider-Man for the N64 
 and everything else was also made by them) and they should be given some credit just for that reason. 
 The graphics in the PC version are lifted straight from the 360 and it shows, with great player 
 models and beautiful, almost surreal enviorments. By using bump mapping, the textures on everything 
 gain some depth such as the ruffles on a shirt or the leather on boots. The music is just as good 
 in GUN, featuring the old western styled music you would come to expect and the voice-overs are 
 superb. The weapon sounds in this game are quite good andd feel realistic. In GUN you play as a 
 hunter turned adventurer, Colt, who is trying to avenge his "father's" death and find out why he 
 and a steamboat full of people were killed. The game feels great and a standard Gamecube controller 
 or WASD configuration works wonderfully in practice, the controls feel ultra-smooth and the animations 
 are gripping. In GUN you basically can explore the vast landscape as much as you want but be warned, 
 bandits will roll on you. In some way or another, you are always drawn back to the great story 
 missions and side missions that are used to up stats and make money for better weapons and items. 
 I enjoyed every second of this game and I hope you will too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brutalus7
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 13, 2006 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I didn't know much about Gun, but I heard if was great, so I tried it out. And surprisingly great 
 it was. No, there's no multiplayer, and the campaign was fairly easy, but it was really fun. This 
 game brings action to the Wild West like I've never played before. Riding on a horse and firing 
 dual Colt 45's is about the coolest new thing to come to gaming in a couple years.
  The story was good, and the action was amazing and fun. The side quests were many and varied, keeping 
 it fresh. And I have to say, the final boss was good too. It wasn't just another boss with a health 
 bar, there was a specific way to injure him, which made it hard, yes, but it was different, and 
 I have to give a nod to Neversoft for making it different, even if it wasn't perfect. 
  
  Overall there isn't much replay value, unless you didn't do many side quests, but it was really 
 fun. I highly recommend it to all action game fans. Don't miss it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totalnutter
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 29, 2006 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Gun a game that has never ending action from the moment you start the game to the moment you finish 
 it. This game starts you off with a tutorial to help you get to know the controls. This is good 
 because you will need to know how to do this later in the game. The game starts you off easy and 
 gets harder at the game progresses. Included are side missions for you to complete to help you 
 earn money to help you get upgrades and you would also gain stats which you need the more the game 
 goes on. The final boss is hard to kill but possible. So if you want a game to make you think about 
 the choises you make then this is the game for you. I found the game easy at first but as i got 
 thru the game it took me longer to kill the bosses. There is about 5 or 6 bosses which you have 
 to kill all together. You have a multitude of weapons to choose from which you earn during the 
 game and you can also ride horses and shot while you are riding the horses. I would recommend this 
 game to people who like a cowboy style shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChaotikZero1
Rating: 8
Date: May 28, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  But you take control of gunslinger Cole, a man with many questions to be answered in his life, 
 along with having revenge on his murdered father.
  
  The game is pretty good, its not bad, its not the best, but its a pretty good game for its genre. 
 The graphics arent the best, but they still look good at times. The gunplay in this game can be 
 compared to "Red Dead Revolver", when some say the gunplay in this game is way better, take your 
 side. 
  
  Theres alot of things to do in this game due to its free roaming based map. You can stir up fights 
 in towns, hunt animals, scalp peoples heads, use the local dog for target practice and work for 
 local people in the area. Every job you do upgrades your stats so theres basically no way you can 
 complete the game without doing any of the side missions.
  
  The voice acting is amazing, sounds top notch compared to a western movie. The guns sound realistic, 
 the ambient noises, the NPC dialouge, its all top notch.
  
  Although theres nothing to do after finishing the story part of the game, its good for a one-time 
 run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kreig_jones
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 20, 2006 7:42 pm PT
Review:  
  I remember the first time i got
  hands on a new computer I got DEMO of a western game that played like WOLF 3D
  but was much more 
 fun to play with a lot of interactions between the characters.
  I tried to get an original copy but gaming was not so hot at that time &amp; I
  had to be content 
 will playing the DEMO over &amp; over again till I got bored.
  Well when I first started playing
  GUN I had some previous notions that it will be like RPG + 
 strategy genre like
  Diablo -II but when I got my first taste of horse riding things went berserk. I
  can say without 
 doubt this is the best FPS shooter I have ever played. I will
  just point out it's ups &amp; downs: -
  UP
  Excellent
  storyline.
  
  
  Quick
  draw 
 mode truly gives the real western feel to the game.
  
  Horse
  riding is one of the biggest pluses of this game. The way the horses move ,
  turn &amp; run is 
 so realistic it makes ride , ride , ride .........
  
  Side
  missions not only makes longer lasting game play but makes you feel relaxed
  as you herd cows 
 &amp; horses , a welcome relief from all the incessant
  bad-guy bashing. And it really imitates the life of a cowboy. That should be
  fun.
  
  The
 
  interactive nature of the game is it's greatest advantages. Nowhere would
  you feel that you're driven to play a known set of objectives that the game
  pushes you through.
 
  
  The
  sudden changes in lighting &amp; color of the sky makes a very moody
  atmosphere &amp; your mind will soar into the horizon to the vast open
  desert &amp; feel the 
 eternal pang ;-)
  
  &nbsp;
  DOWN
  &nbsp;
  
  
  The
  graphics is dated but I feel that it's done intentionally to keep the
  overhead on the graphics 
 card less seeing the vast nature of the levels.
  Actually there is no separate level. It is a one big level where you can go
  wherever you like.
 
  
  The
  textures are not pre- loaded in memory. They load as you come close to them.
  That gives a serious performance hit. Sometimes I get stuck while it loads
  for about 3-5 seconds. 
 Also dont ride your too fast too far. Why? Do it
  once &amp; you will know.&nbsp; Ride
  your horse too fast &amp; you will see yourself floating in air.
  
  Sometimes
  the sided 
 missions get boring &amp; repetitive.
  
  Some
  side missions are just too hard to complete. For example I had to get to a
  stable in time, which 
 I couldnt, in 10 consecutive attempts after which
  the game crashed taking with it all the unsaved side missions I have played.
  Watch out for that. 
 Dont load too often.
  
  &nbsp;
  Some
  words of advice for playing the game
  &nbsp;
  
  
  Watch
  out for the shopkeepers they are the surprise elements of this game. 
 Ill
  explain why? Cause you can buy &amp; upgrade your weapons from them. What do
  you think youre earning money &amp; improving your stats for (by doing
  side missions) ?
  
 
  Go
  for the gold digger or shovel first. Without it you cannot mine gold &amp;
  earn more money. You will see shiny lumps of rock scattered throughout the
  game, these are the 
 gold you will mine. Each will give you $10.
  
  Next
  upgrade your load times. Thats a major priority. You know why?
  
  Then
  upgrade your health 
 bar. You can always come back to the same shopkeeper
  even if he was on a different mission. You need to know the map very well
  though ;-) .
  
 
  Dont
  try to be hero. The guns have too realistic rates of fire &amp; accuracy.
  Judiciously cover yourself. This is not Half-life 2 or DOOM 3.
  
  &nbsp;
  &nbsp;
  
  Visit
 
  my web page @ 
  
  Visit
  my blog @ http://solutionsto. blogspot. com&nbsp;
  
  Feel
  free to contact me @ kreigjones@yahoo. com
 
  &nbsp;
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kueiyen
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 26, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Well GUN is great game. It has been a long time since the last Western Cowboy game around was released 
 on the market. 
  The game is worth praise for its unique story setting which there isn't many game in this gene. 
 
  
  The control is good with mouse and keyboard. (gamepad control seems less smooth on pc) . 
  The 
 horse riding is the best I seem so far, The developer really capture the mechanic of how horse 
 run, walk, move in crooked angle on a slope, and speeds up. (The game offers way better horse riding 
 than any of dynasty Warriors series) . The rag-dolls physics is awsome when you see people fall 
 of the off the horse very realistically.
  
  The game offers very brutal plots and twisting story as in some of the cut scene you see some of 
 NPC got thier thorat-cutting, head chopping, finger exploding, teeth removing, brain blow up....... (oh 
 my GOD they kill Jenny.... the only hot babes in the game) This is similar to the game Punisher 
 but it is presented is much better fashion to echo with the brutality of Western cowboy movies. 
 
  
  The graphic is good but seems a bit dated like the games in the 2004. The texture quality land 
 graphic quality looks bit like the game punisher or onimusha 1.. which the game is detail but presented 
 in a blurred manner where the edge between one object to another is less defined. I guess is this 
 presentation is used to echo the story setting that takes place in the past.
  
  Another downside of the game is that there is no intereaction betweens the NPCs or nything else. 
 However, I think the game might make a great RPG with more refined upgrade and stats improvment 
 from quests. From a different perspective, this game might be better if it is made as an Action 
 RPG where is are more interections with NPCs like the game "Vamplire: bloodline". I think this will 
 make it a better game since the game has no replay value after you fininish it for the first time 
 ( no bonus or secrets) after you finish the game for the first time. The game is fun, but you not 
 sure it is worth to play again. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: terminus
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2006 5:46 pm PT
Review:  I'm a fan of the wild west, and this game was fun to play, and it some replay value with sidequest 
 and weapon upgrades to name a few. It would have been great to have an online mode to do face offs 
 and such.... even to just have towns to hang out at, and challenge other fighters, robbing homes 
 or whatever. But the single player is like I mentioned enjoyable and entertaining. If your a fan 
 of the west, this game is low priced now and worth every penny.
  
  I played the game with max settings and 1280 rez... game ran fine, little hic ups here and there 
 like most games. The port isn't all too bad..... I still preferred to play with kb and mouse, so 
 it wasn't bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marcinkonys
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 17, 2006 8:49 am PT
Review:  Gun is a third-person action adventure game set in an eighteenth century North American setting. 
 It has great game-play and sound, but the storyline is short, although it really keeps you in. 
 It took me two days, or 10 hours to pass the main story, and the majority of side missions.
  
  The game begins with you and your father going for a hunt. You hunt down a couple of buffalos 
 and deer. After the hunt, you get into a steamboat and go home. Inside the steamboat, you meet 
 a priest. He looks interested in you Moments later, the steamboats attacked by bandits, sent 
 by the priest. You jump off the boat, but your fathers killed. Time for revenge
  
  The game world is pretty small  while on a horse, you can easily get from the west to the east 
 side of the map in less than five minutes. Anyway, there are many things you can do. The environments 
 are pretty interactive  you can dig gold, ride horses, and so on. Gold diggings only available 
 when you buy a gold digger, though. Each time you dig a pile of gold, you get money. You also get 
 it by completing main and side missions. When youve enough money, you can buy upgrades  extra 
 health slots, faster weapon reload, etc. The more you upgrade, the easier it is to beat opponents.
 
  
  There are many types of side missions: Wanted poster missions. There are Wanted posters around 
 the map. Walk up to them and press the use button. Youll be introduced to the target  what his 
 name is, his whereabouts, etc. Some targets require to be killed; some have to be taken alive. 
 After you kill / subdue a target, youll get money. Also, there are Pony Express missions. These 
 require getting to a target (citizen) , then getting to the shop in a limited time, and bringing 
 him back something from the shop. This must be done quickly, or you wont get any money. These 
 arent all of the side missions, youll find more.
  
  The health system in this game is kind of funny. There is a whiskey bottle at the lower left corner 
 of the screen. If your healths low, drink some whiskey and your health will restore. One mouthful 
 of whiskey, and youll lose one health-slot. If you dont have much whiskey left, you can search 
 for it. There are many bottles lying around the map. When your healths low, be careful when being 
 attacked by a group of foes  this is where the Quick-Draw features handy. Its sort of like bullet-time 
  youre taken into slow-motion mode. Its much easier to deal with enemies then. The quick-draw 
 doesnt last long, though, so use it wisely.
  
  There are many weapons in the game  you dont have many at the start of the game but you can unlock 
 more in later missions. There are Winchesters, rifles, magnums, and more. The magnum, unlike all 
 other weapons, has infinite ammo. If you run out of ammo of other weapons, you can search for ammo-packs. 
 Its very easy to aim in the game. Well, at least with most weapons. If the crosshair turns red, 
 youre pointing your weapon at a foe  shoot, and the bullet will do damage. If it turns green, 
 youre pointing it at a friendly  you cant do any damage to friendlies, so shooting at them will 
 only waste ammo. If its blue  your weapons pointing at a weapon  cannon, or a horse.
  
  If an enemy is riding a horse, shoot his horse and he will fall off. This is very useful when youre 
 doing the Wanted Poster missions that require capturing a person who has broken the law. You get 
 more money if you capture the target alive. Your horse isnt invincible, too. When you mount a 
 horse, an extra health bar appears on the HUD, showing the horses health. If your horse is killed, 
 you automatically jump off. Jumping off high places with the horse, or kicking him to gain more 
 speed affects his health. If your horse is injured, wait some time for his health to restore. If 
 you continue injuring the horse, he dies.
  
  The most effective way to kill an enemy is, of course, doing a headshot. Sometimes, if youre lucky, 
 you can hit his gun. Hell drop the gun, and a Weapon Shot message will appear on the screen. 
 Youll have some time to finish him (until he picks up the gun) . You can also grab enemies from 
 behind. When holding an enemy, you can shoot. You also have two choices  release the enemy (or 
 a citizen) , or execute him. Shooting or executing citizens lowers the citys patience. When it 
 reaches zero, the Showdown starts. Youll have to deal against a group of foes. The other way to 
 end a Showdown is to escape. When the showdowns over, its all back to normal.
  
  Did I mention scalping? Ooh, its fun. You have to buy a scalper first, though. Then, get near 
 a dead enemy, press T and F (by default) and youll scalp him. Doesnt sound very good, but Like 
 shooting and executing, it lowers the town patience if you scalp a citizen.
  
  Like I said the sound in this game is great  the screams of Indians, the weapon shots, the cannons, 
 the music  it makes the game intense. There arent many tracks in the game, but they sound good. 
 For example, theres a mission where you have to escape from a jail at night. The music is quiet, 
 and slow
  
  Its better to rent the game first, because you can easily pass it in a couple of days. Anyway, 
 there are still many things to do after you pass the story. Give it a try  you wont be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lumberjack8302
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 16, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of the most fun and addictive games I've played in a while. Not only is this game 
 fun it has a pretty decent story line if you care to watch the movies. The only downsides I could 
 find was when running on my system (which is by no means cutting edge) it was a little jerky at 
 times, and that the sides mission were pretty much the same thing over and over again. All I have 
 to say is I'm the reason that Buffalo almost became extinct. In conclusion, if you've played any 
 of the GTA games and love Clint Eastwood Spaghetti Westerns then this game is for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madgino
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2006 3:29 am PT
Review:  I give it a big grade because I love good westerns and this is one game that succeed in touching 
 that feeling.
  
  It's every boy dream to be the sheriff, the one who shoots the bad guys and has absolute justice 
 in his hand, who's horse is his best friend and got nothing to loose in life and can freely wander 
 the country.
  
  Although it's far away from this at least the game tries to deliver this feeling and sometime succeed.
 
  
  I love riding and shooting from the horse, this is very cool, the rest doesn't worth mentioning 
 but..
  
  Considering GTA evolution between versions, I hope that this game will become a better one and 
 hopefully gun 2 or 3 will be excellent games.
  There is room for evolution, it can be done, there is great potential, let's hope that they will 
 be smart enough to do it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monowasp
Rating: 2.8
Date: Apr 7, 2006 1:29 am PT
Review:  ... here's a story from the old west, when the cowboys where filthy, dust was in everybody's hair 
 and eyes, when the whiskey tasted liked a pot of sand, when love was just a word in bad tailored 
 romance novels; or a shot of good-ol'-fun-in-the-hay with a local prostitute, when the indians 
 where called "injuns" and filled their lives with chasing white ugly men to kill...
  
  This is a game filled with a lot of nonsense, bad dialogue, bad graphics but fairly good gameplay, 
 that is to say, if you don't mind racist remarks about "injuns", to me it shows a bit of the old 
 west, but hey, you can make a better attempt about not portraying prejudice in such a grand way, 
 putting it in your face of every gamer that plays it...
  
  Some real time indians have been offended by the content, and they have all the right to be; so 
 I have to say honestly I did not play the whole game through. The levels where boring and the graphics, 
 well... I had more fun back in the days when Half-Life came out, and where are years from that 
 now, but some developers never seem to get the idea what PC games are about, some do, and that's 
 why they are still around... Thumbs down for GUN, you will have more fun playing poker with your 
 grandmother... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flashtek
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 4, 2006 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Gun is a fantastic game but I must admit that is a bit on the short side. Game developers should 
 have spent more time developing the story and stretching it a bit. The side missions were fun a 
 quick just the way it should be. I love the graphics and open landscape for traveling. Horseback 
 riding was a refreshing experience and very exciting. Controls were very easy to learn and very 
 responsive. Some great add on store features with weapon and life upgrades. All for all a very 
 solid beginning for a great series. I can see Neversoft coming out wih a sequel or maybe some expansions 
 to make up for the short story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclazyj
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 3, 2006 10:21 am PT
Review:  When I first read about Gun, I was a bit intrigued. I had not seen a good western game on the PC 
 since Outlaws, and I really liked the idea of a roaming free western that would play out like a 
 GTA styled game. And while it delivers on most of those promises, you will be done before you know 
 it.
  
  You play as Colton While, a hunter for the steamboats that come up and down the main river. Ned 
 White is your father and has trained you to hunt game and survive in the wilderness. All of this 
 plays out in a great sequence and tutorial level. On your first delivery in the game, you are attacked 
 by a strange preacher and his followers. They kill everyone on the ship except you and Ned. Fron 
 here, you have to quest to find out why you were attacked and how you and your father are connected 
 to the mystery.
  
  First off, the story is top notch. The story here has a lot of twists and keeps you involved from 
 the beginning to the final conflict. Randall Jahnsen, who wrote the script for Mask of Zorro, seems 
 to know how to write a western. He makes you feel like you are in a spaghetti western. The atmosphere 
 and the characters really move the story and make it feel like a cinematic experience. Also, the 
 addition of side missions really plays out nicely. It makes the world feel as if other things are 
 happening regardless of how you progress.
  
  Graphics are just great. If you have the card for it, this game will look fantastic. The character 
 models have a lot of detail and the environments you go through are great. They have a unique feel 
 and really show off the different places that you could be at in the old west. Once you turn on 
 all the eye candy, the game really rocks. Little details like having the screen throb red as you 
 get low on health, show an attention to using the graphics to portray the senses that you dont 
 normally get. King Kong started this trend, and I hope to see it continue in other games. And I 
 have to thank Neversoft for again, treating us to another was as to how to port to the PC. 
  
  Sound is just as good with voice overs by some great talent. Thomas Jane puts in another great 
 voice over performance to go with his performance from The Punisher. The guy never seems to phone 
 it in. Same goes for Lance Hendrickson as the main villain, MacGruder. Kris Kristofferson seems 
 to be the one that is just phoning it in. His characters voice seemed to be rather flat and uninterested 
 in what was going on. I expect better from a guy with his talents. Weapons have a great sound and 
 really pack a wallop. The first time you shoot a couple of barrels of TNT, you will understand 
 what I am talking about.
  
  So where are the flaws in this game. I would primarily have to say that the length of the game 
 was a bit bothersome. I was really getting into the story and figured that when I ran into the 
 big boss at the end, I would be surprised by finding out there was more going on after that. But 
 I was wrong. A cut scene played and then the game was over, credits rolling. This game was finished 
 in under six hours. That was all of the main plot plus a couple of missions. If I was playing this 
 on the 360 and had paid $60 for the game, I would be pissed. Beyond some graphical glitches here 
 and there, the length is the thing that really kills this game. Kind of like Max Payne. It was 
 great, but left you yearning for more.
  
  So if you have a PC, this game is a no brainer to buy. It is $30 and has a great story. There are 
 a lot of side missions that you can work on after finishing the main game, but it just kills me 
 that they main story ends so soon. Here is hoping that a sequel is coming and will pack in a little 
 more story with the same quality.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Treadstone71
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 2, 2006 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Ill forgo the obligatory comparisons to GTA and just say that Gun is a semi-open ended action 
 Western. This had the potential to be one of the greatest games on the planet, but a couple of 
 things drag it just shy of greatness leaving it merely good.
  Everyone has noted the extreme shortness of the game, and they are not wrong. If you plowed through 
 playing non-stop with few side missions, you could probably finish the game in about 5 hours. Even 
 doing all the side missions it doesnt feel like it extends the life of the game.
  I have come to the conclusion that this is due more to the size of the game world which, all things 
 considered, ends up seeming really, really small. In GTA, if you drove from one end of the city 
 to the other, it might take you a couple of minutes. In Gun, you can ride from one end of the Game 
 World to the other in less than 60 seconds. There are two major cities, Dodge and Empire, and the 
 first time you have to ride between the two, it seems like quite the journey. This ends up being 
 due to the fact that they send you on an amazingly circuitous route and youre being harassed by 
 enemies the entire way. After you get to Empire, you discover that theres a very straight shortcut 
 set of train tracks that leads directly between the two and it only takes seconds to get from one 
 to the other.
  The net effect is that all the quests regardless of their location really seem like youre just 
 crossing the street to pickup the mail (and in fact, more than half of the quests literally do 
 just send you right across the street which somewhat detracts from the immersion factor) . Even 
 the quests that send you searching out in the wilderness just arent that grandiose in nature or 
 duration. The upshot of all this is that everything in the game seems quick, short, and close.
 
  This is a third person game. No FPS action here except when you go into zoom mode, or quickdraw 
 mode. Ive read complaints from other reviewers about clipping and slowdowns and again, they are 
 not wrong. Ive experienced some fairly bad graphical corruption and clipping as well as some extreme 
 frame rate drops on a P4 3.4Ghz with a 256Meg Radeon 9800. Unfortunately, reducing all the graphical 
 settings to their minimums _does not really help these frame rate problems_ - so this is not completely 
 a question of lack of horsepower.
  If they do end up making a sequel I would request three things: Larger Game World, an FPS toggle 
 option and a more optimized graphics engine.
  
  Now to the good: Combat is pretty fun - especially when you pick up the nuances of quickdraw mode 
 (think Max Payne Bullet Time) and purchase some of the better upgrades from vendors. Its very 
 satisfying to face off against five enemies, slam into quickdraw mode and cap all five of them 
 in a row like something right out of A Fistful of Dollars. The large variety of weapons is also 
 pretty cool, although it ends up being somewhat superfluous as you are constantly receiving better 
 versions of weapons and once you get them, theres no reason to go back to the earlier models you 
 were using before (although you can do so if you wish) . The characters are also fairly well done 
 and the voice talent is good. The soundtrack is appropriately western  but not Ennio Morricone's 
 Spaghetti Western  instead you get the sprawling John Barry overtones found in movies like Dances 
 With Wolves. Im thinking they should have gone with the former, but thats probably just me
 
  All in all, I had a lot of fun with Gun, but I just found that I was constantly wishing to myself 
 that the developers had done more with it.
  If you love westerns and lament the lack of this particular subject material in the Video Game 
 arena, then you will probably love Gun. If you are looking for the next great Western game to replace 
 Outlaws Gun tries hard, but youll have to wait a little longer.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xnon1
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 31, 2006 10:07 am PT
Review:  Well first off ,dont buy this game for PC it's to riddled with clipping and studdering to enjoy 
 it ,not that it's a great enjoyment to begin with but you are better off with the 360 version allthough 
 your paying more for that game which i believe is not worth it either . The story line is put together 
 nice good plot , it kinda keeps you involved in the story but any enjoyment you get doesn't last 
 do to the development of the game i dont know why developers dont see problems with there games 
 before there released ? for instance riding into town (empire city) on your trusty steed there 
 allways seem to be a bad slow down when you get to a specific spot ,damn thats annoying or trying 
 to kill one of the bad boss guy's and you ride up to shoot ,all of a sudden your fram rate drops 
 then starts back up and whamo you get killed cause you cant shoot ! and why do the towns folk fall 
 down when you trot by then ,your clearly 10ft. away or more but they act as though your right on 
 top of them and dont get me started on the side missions which are not that bad but once i had 
 to get a hores from point A to B in the alloted time but always failed because three quarters of 
 the way there the game starts to studder badley and your time runs out before your fram rate turns 
 back to normal .
  
  The graphics are deff. consolish i wasn't to happy with the look off the game, iv'e seen better 
 on xbox .The landscape looked ok some sceens were nice but over all bland textures although the 
 horses looked very good and one more thing about the horses i wish your could have your own horse 
 threw out the game ,it seemed kind odd to just grab any horse ,it would have gave a little more 
 feel to the game .Well i'll end this by saying what i said earlier dont get this for pc you'll 
 be disappionted . This game needed more polish and buffing but it's becoming typical with most 
 games today ,sad being that there asking us to pay $40 or$50 for a game .Anyways wait fot CALL 
 OF JUREZ to come out soon that should be a more polished game it certianly looks great from what 
 i have seen so far ,and i knowone thing i'll never get tired of westerns . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avalancegames
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  Give is a good game apprehend as the deserve the note 10 with all as the is too short, yet expect 
 as his gun 2 is of one little 3 either else long, and buy the game as the deserve gambled, has 
 the chart has of all, just if he does some uncool frameuri sometimes, he goes, on my part note 
 10 
  The game is the kind gta and had ideie very good his does and a game western e intradevar a beautiful 
 some phase as the path and cow... Just but that ditch ab villatic... But imi like to gamble GUN 
 .
  Uncool he is as il how much little little game as the his don't finish it too quick... Therefore 
 he is too short!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Apekiller
Rating: 1.6
Date: Mar 17, 2006 2:08 pm PT
Review:  The game is really bad. When it starts you'll get the false impression that it's a good game and 
 unfortunately you will soon see what a waste of money this was.
  
  The graphics of this game is atleast 6 years old, it really does look awful and I know they could 
 of made it a lot better - if they weren't so cheap. This game must of been rushed on the market, 
 I don't see any other explanation for why this game is so bad. It looks bad even for a port to 
 PC from PS2 (check out the Onimusha 3 PS2 port to PC and you will see that one looks a lot better) . 
 The textures are bad, the environment and models are stubby
  
  Moving on I'll say a few words about the gameplay: it sucks. The difficulty is sometimes very easy 
 but also very hard. Enemies do not die when you shoot them in the head - now this is just poor 
 designing...
  
  You drink whisky and gain health (that's stupid) , and I found a bug on the first steamboat: there's 
 a cannon there; you use it to fire at your enemies - who do not die from the blast, just if it's 
 a direct hit (this is not the bug lol, this is just a stupid gameplay) and when you "undock" from 
 the cannon you fall in the river and die. I guess the designers must of thought you can use a cannon 
 when it's facing you, turn it and then use it while standing.. on air.. with no ground beneath 
 you... 
  
  The atmosphere is enjoyable, but you will get bored very soon.
  
  I don't know why this game has a score of 7.4 ??? because it clearly does not deserve it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: synj
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 14, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  this game rocks. the first western shooter, horse rider game ive played and it was awsome. completed 
 it twice on normal and am now trying to do it on the extreme difficulty (if thats what its called) 
 when you get the bow and arrows the game gets alot more fun, i think. the quikdraw mode (where 
 you go in first person and time slows down for those people who havent played it) gives the game 
 a little more.... oomph although the game is a little short there are still side missions to complete 
 . which is why i like to leave them all till i have completed the story missions. they could have 
 made it so that you could continue playing poker even when you complete the torniment. the horse 
 you get at the end gives you something to work towards when you have finished the game. all in 
 all this game is coooool and i will proberly start playing it again when i have finished with stubbs 
 the zombie ^^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DougClayton4231
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 14, 2006 11:12 am PT
Review:  GUN is a wonderful game from Activision, that was developed by the people who make Tony Hawk for 
 the consoles, Neversoft. Many have under-rated this game, due to the fact that it's about 10 hours 
 long, but in my opinion, the story would have been compromised if it were stretched out. Also there 
 is the point that this is Neversoft's second game that isn't Tony Hawk (Spider-Man for the N64 
 and everything else was also made by them) and they should be given some credit just for that reason. 
 The graphics in the PC version are lifted straight from the 360 and it shows, with great player 
 models and beautiful, almost surreal enviorments. By using bump mapping, the textures on everything 
 gain some depth such as the ruffles on a shirt or the leather on boots. The music is just as good 
 in GUN, featuring the old western styled music you would come to expect and the voice-overs are 
 superb. The weapon sounds in this game are quite good andd feel realistic. In GUN you play as a 
 hunter turned adventurer, Colt, who is trying to avenge his "father's" death and find out why he 
 and a steamboat full of people were killed. The game feels great and a standard Gamecube controller 
 or WASD configuration works wonderfully in practice, the controls feel ultra-smooth and the animations 
 are gripping. In GUN you basically can explore the vast landscape as much as you want but be warned, 
 bandits will roll on you. In some way or another, you are always drawn back to the great story 
 missions and side missions that are used to up stats and make money for better weapons and items. 
 I enjoyed every second of this game and I hope you will too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeroczerodo
Rating: 7.2
Date: Mar 13, 2006 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Grand Theft Auto but in the wild west. Horse riding is done really well in the game and is the 
 only way you want to get around in the huge free roam environment. Lots of fun sub-missions and 
 plenty of weapons. Like GTA the game keeps track of all your stats, kills, amout of game progress 
 and missions completed. The story line keeps you in but it's too short to buy. Your best off renting 
 or borrowing from a friend. But real fun to play none the less. A bonus plus for me is I like games 
 that use "realistic" language. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SadExchange
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 7, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Coming to the PC on November 9th of 2005, Gun set players in the role a lone cowboy making his 
 name in the Old West trying to stay alive between fighting with rouge bandits and the Native Americans. 
 Neversoft Entertainment brings the unique setting of the Old West and presents it to the player 
 in a sort of Western Grand Theft Auto style of way giving the player the ability to free-roam and 
 complete optional side quests at their leisure. Gun is definitely a breath of fresh air in the 
 First Person Shooter genre giving the player a different style of gameplay set in the Old West, 
 a time mostly untapped in this particular genre, but definitely well developed.
  
  The storyline is presented to the player through in-game sequences after different situations throughout 
 the games campaign. The storyline is interesting and keeps the players interest throughout the 
 entire time including the side missions that are presented either through local townfolk or wanted 
 posters. Without ruining too much of the story, Colton White, the main character, goes on mission 
 to find information about his past, and about a lost treasure thats supposed to located somewhere 
 in the mountains of the old west. Along the way, hell cross paths with different bandits and other 
 high up officials who are into some illegal operations. 
  
  The gameplay within Gun is extremely fun. There are lots of side quests for your character to do 
 throughout the entire game consisting of hunting special animals, collecting bounties for Wanted 
 posters, and Pony Express missions where you must deliver packages and supplies to different places 
 in an allowed amount of time. There is even a mini-quest consisting of playing poker with some 
 local gamblers, winning or losing different tournaments. While these side quests may be fun and 
 exciting first off, some may get repetitive and the amount of side quests will go down after a 
 while; and when this happens, youre forced more upon the main quest which is actually quite short. 
 The game world is setup as a kind of Grand Theft Auto where its one big playground for your cowboy 
 character from the get go. And in the beginning, the gameworld seems huge, but after completing 
 a little of the main quest, youll soon find that youve already memorized the entire map thats 
 given to you. One downfall in this game is the lack of entertainment after you complete the main 
 quest. While going through the main missions, youll find yourself wanting to do most of the side 
 quests because of how they benefit your character in different skills, but if you complete all 
 the side missions before you finish the main quest, you wont have anything left to do after you 
 defeat the end boss. Normally this wouldnt seem like a bad thing, but the lack of interaction 
 with NPCs in the gameworld without optional quests is really small and meaningless.
  
  Youll be able to play through the game either through first or third person viewpoints whether 
 youre on foot or on horseback using weapons from the days of the old west being six shooters, 
 shotguns, and Native American bow and arrows, among other weapons. The developers put a lot of 
 effort into making the game authentic not only in its atmosphere and environment, but also in the 
 weapons that are useable by the player. There is also a type of bullet-time known as quick draw 
 in Gun where youre able to slow down time and take closer aim to take out more enemies at a time. 
 This is a nice feature that youll use often because of the amount of enemies thatll be set upon 
 you early on and throughout the entire campaign of the game. With completing the optional side 
 quests, you character will build skills in quick draw, horse back riding, and other elements to 
 enhance your game in terms of a longer bullet time, faster and longer riding power with your 
 horse, among other features.
  
  The graphics within Gun are decent enough for this day and age. The developers took their time 
 in giving each small outpost and town its own unique style and set up. Youll find yourself racing 
 around on horseback through different locales such as abandoned mines, large buffalo filled fields, 
 and across train bridges. The world of Gun is seamless and you wont encounter any load times so 
 that is definitely a plus while playing. The idea of open gameplay like the Grand Theft Auto series 
 has definitely become a large idea in computer games, as it should, because any game now with a 
 load time is considered behind the times. San Andreas just seemed to set a standard in open gameplay 
 that Gun tries to match, but simply falls short because of its small length. There are some glitches 
 in the graphics though, some of the textures dont quite mesh with their environment and there 
 are times when riding on horseback across open areas where the landscape sort of disappears for 
 a few seconds until it resets. Although this only happens sometimes, it still can get annoying 
 at times.
  
  The soundtrack of Gun is nice and gives the player the sense of atmosphere while riding through 
 the different canyons of the old western environment. The voice acting team definitely has to give 
 themselves a pat on the back because of how good of a job they did with Gun. All character voices 
 are very believable and are a great addition to the decent storyline of Gun. It makes the atmosphere 
 and the characters more believable in their situations that they encounter throughout the games 
 campaign. The sound effects within the game are different from each other and really are a good 
 addition to the overall gameplay.
  
  Overall, Gun is a great game that should be at least given a chance by anyone who liked either 
 the Old West or the Grand Theft Auto series. Although the actual campaign is quite short in length 
 in terms of games resembling it, like the GTA series, the game is full from start to finish with 
 the different side quests and the interesting main quest. The ability to have bullet time, also 
 known as quick draw, is quite a fun addition to the gameplay and mechanics of the overall game. 
 While the overall gameplay is very entertaining from start to finish, youll find that the start 
 to finish part is quite short. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadlytoque
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 3, 2006 11:35 pm PT
Review:  So, offence to First Nations groups aside, here's what I can say about Gun: I really enjoyed it. 
 The Western genre is not nearly as tapped as it should be for games. Given the rich history and 
 mythology of the west, and the fact that it's supported countless films and television programs, 
 I'm surprised more game companies haven't taken advantage of it. And if they do in the future, 
 Gun is a good place to look for a model.
  
  As the official Gamespot review suggests, Gun feels a little like GTA: Wild West. That's definitely 
 it's strongest point. In fact, a game with the length, open-endedness, and variety of the GTA series, 
 but set in the American West, would be amazingly great.
  
  The main story quest is really under-developed and short. It really feels like a gasp, rather than 
 a full breath. You're just starting to get into things, and you're done. Even if you do all the 
 side quests (which I did) you're still left with a gameplay experience of under 20 hours of casual 
 play.
  
  The side quests are fun, and in my opinion, the best part of the game. There are bounties to collect, 
 Pony Express messages to deliver, outlaws to round up both for the Sheriff of Dodge and for a Federal 
 Marshall in Empire city, poker to play, wild game to hunt, and (my personal favorite) cattle to 
 ranch. Unfortunately, there are only a few of each type of mission, and they are as easy as the 
 campaign itself.
  
  The ability to just wander around the attractive buttes and mesas and prairie doesn't hold the 
 attention for long, since the game map is pretty small. A game world more on the scale of GTA San 
 Andreas would make this reviewer very very happy. There is gold to be found and mined in the hills, 
 but given how tiny the world is, you pretty quickly feel like you're just running around in circles 
 looking for it.
  
  The action in the game is quick and intense, but often too easy. I suppose the ease is the alternative 
 to constant replaying of missions, but the game never makes you feel like you're actually threatened.
 
  
  There is a nice variety of weapons, and the upgrades are tied to the missions, so you never feel 
 too powerful or not powerful enough.
  
  Other than the game's brevity, my only major complaint is the fight against the final boss character. 
 The strategy for his defeat is just contrived and silly.
  
  Overall, I would say if you like the Western genre in books, movies, or TV, then play Gun. If you 
 find it in a bargain bin and you enjoyed the GTA games, then pick it up. But full price for a game 
 this short? Not so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaiden1024
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 28, 2006 4:47 am PT
Review:  I just finished Gun now , it always surprises me when i finish games these days , they always seem 
 to go on and on forever and eventually I get bored and stop playing. 
  
  I like 5-15 hour games , they're really fun to play and also don't seem to stagnate at any point. 
 Gun is a perfect example of a fun story with an okay game engine , one of the only things that 
 really upset me, was that the game froze sometimes between sections (non fatal) and my overall 
 experiance was still good. 
  
  I reccomend playing it , graphics aren't fantastic , but sometimes the engine does shine. Sound 
 is adaquate with nice voice acting , controls are not quite as sharp as Tony Hawk but still good 
 (and yes it does look like the same engine too with a few graphics bumps , and no you can't grind 
 your horse :P) .
  
  My only gripe with the actual game apart from the engine was the last mother. He wasn't very well 
 thought out in my opinion as his difficulty was insane compared to any other part in the game. 
 I continuously died there... over and over and over... you get the idea , and over and over and 
 over. 
  
  That was the only time I actually got upset with the game, if I'd stopped playing during that session 
 I would not have finished the game.
  
  If you really want the tip for the end , gimme a message and I'll tell you , otherwise I'd hate 
 to 'spoil' the surprise...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Royas
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 20, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  GUN! is a gritty game set in the great American west in the time of the cowboys, when the gun was 
 the law, and the man who was using it was the only judge you were going to see. Okay, that's a 
 bit dramatic, but GUN! does claim to represent the wild west, complete with violence (lotsa that) 
 and lust (not so much) . It pretty much delivers what it promises.
  
  The game basically follows our hero, Colton White, through his adventures. The game takes you first 
 through a series of tutorial missions, teaching you the basic interface and how to play the game. 
 In the process of doing these missions, Colton's old man is killed off, setting the stage for a 
 trip down the ol' path of vengeance. Along the way, Colton finds himself doing missions of various 
 sorts, including bounty hunting, pony express deliveries and cattle driving. As you go through 
 the missions, you learn more and more about what's going on with the bad guys, and what they are 
 seeking.
  
  You play this game in a third person, over the shoulder mode. You have access to basic weapon types, 
 including pistols, rifles, shotguns and bows. You get better weapons, and can improve the weapons 
 you have, as you go along. The mechanics of the game are pretty simple, similar to most other first 
 and third person shooters out there. You won't find any surprises here. There is even a slow motion 
 mode (increasingly popular since Max Payne) that they call quickdraw mode, meant to simulate Colton's 
 lightning fast reflexes with a six gun. I did notice that the aiming in this game is very forgiving, 
 you don't have to be at all precise. Just fire in the general direction, and you are likely to 
 get a hit. That takes away from the enjoyment a little, making some of the fights a bit too easy. 
 Overall, the game is fun, and riding a horse around is kind of a kick.
  
  The graphics and sound in the game are wonderful. With a good, top of the line computer, the eye 
 candy is breathtaking, with detailed textures, long view distances and colorful vistas. With the 
 sound, they implemented 3d sound very well. With surround sound, I was able to tell where things 
 were just by the noise pretty often. The actual sounds are of good quality, and the voice acting 
 was above average. Mind, that's not saying much, average for games is pretty bad, but in this case 
 it was well done and believable.
  
  Now, there are some problems with the game. Most glaring is its length... the game is just too 
 short by far. To be really worth the price, this game needed to be half again to twice as long, 
 minimum. The space the game takes place in is a bit small, too. A larger geographical area would 
 have gone down well in this case, especially tied in with more missions and a longer storyline. 
 I'm not saying that things are cramped, but they are a little repetitive after awhile. Finally, 
 (possible spoiler here) the final battle with your arch enemy is a typical boss battle, with a 
 nearly indestructible foe that you have to kill using special tactics, cause shooting him isn't 
 going to do any good at all. I can't stand those sorts of contrived encounters, they detract from 
 what is otherwise a good, gritty game full of atmosphere and fun gameplay. The missions are good, 
 but some of them do get a little tedious, such as the bounty hunting. Most of the time, there is 
 a variety.
  
  This is a good, fun game, just very much too short for the premium A-list price the game carries. 
 My recommendation is to wait for a price drop or two before getting this one. It's worthy of being 
 on the hard drive, but it's too much money for too little gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolflegresley
Rating: 7.2
Date: Feb 20, 2006 5:12 am PT
Review:  Exellent story, The story is like sitting back and watching a movie unfold in front of you, the 
 game is so easy that its exactly what it feels like, Aimming isnt difficult as it auto aims for 
 you, the game is short like a movie, it allows you to keep playing even after you beat it (with 
 your new special gun) but after you beat the game there is LITTLE replay value at all. The pc version 
 has a lot of gfx bugs and many sound-video syncing. Some very grafical scenes that horrified even 
 me an avid fps shooter fan. This game belongs in everybodys collection, yet its just as well to 
 rent it for the weekend. The experiance was unique and incredablly fun... however it felt more like 
 a one night stand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zero-nine
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 20, 2006 5:02 am PT
Review:  I was pretty exited when I first heard about this game. A free roaming cowboy game, which allows 
 you to ride horses and do all kinds of different missions and side missions? Man, this is GTA goes 
 wild-wild west! So I bought the game and I was immediately sucked in by the story. 
  
  The graphics looked okay, nothing too spectacular. The first thing I noticed is that the sound 
 is out of sync sometimes. Ah well, I got to fight a bear, bought my first horse and I was on my 
 way to what looked like a great adventure. 
  
  But after playing a while Ive noticed that a lot of the missions are kind of straight forward 
 and they are pretty much the same all the time. Kill this dude, defend this place from some bandits 
 and retrieve my horse. Dont get me wrong the missions are fun but they arent very challenging. 
 
  
  Now the horse riding and the huge amount of unnecessary violence are great. The horse riding feels 
 just right and its great fun. You also get to use the bullet-time feature, I know what you are 
 thinking; been there, done that. But it kind of fits this game; I guess it would be really though 
 to complete this game without it. So it isnt just a gimmick. 
  
  There is only one thing that really sucks about this game; its too damn short. Just as you unlock 
 some cool shotguns, the game is over. The only thing you can do with those guns is ride along the 
 dessert waiting for some try and rob you. Well that was kind of a bummer. Apart from that its 
 a great fun to play. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kombainer
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2006 8:47 am PT
Review:  I cannot describe how happy I was when I discovered that someone is finally trying to make a proper 
 Western action on PC. Being a huge western fan, I never understood why game developers have always 
 created numerous action games about aliens, undead, WW2 or whatever and yet they have never created 
 a normal Western action, though Wild West is a perfect basis to create a good action, because it 
 is violent and brutal, but still has its authentic romantic atmosphere.
  I expected a lot from Gun, and I must say that nearly all my expectations were met. The game-play 
 is very rich and varies a lot and still it is very well balanced. You will never get the feeling 
 that there is, for example, too much horse riding and too little shooting or visa versa. The game-play 
 actually reminds me of GTA. As in the GTA you wont see any levels here. All action takes place 
 on a very large area, which size is similar to the size of Vice City. I also strongly recommend 
 to you all to complete all the side missions, because you wont receive even a half of pleasure 
 which the game offers if you complete only the storyline missions. By the way the story is GREAT! 
 It is enough to make a couple of good movies. Youve got everything here: apache gold, learning 
 truth about your family, avenging friends, etc. All this is accompanied by a great soundtrack worthy 
 of the finest Hollywood westerns. Unfortunately the graphics are a bit old for the PC, but I did 
 not expect much more, because the game was originally designed for PS2. There is a definite lack 
 of polyes on the models and what is most disappointing there are a lot of lags even on a powerful 
 computer with performance settings set to medium level. The other great disadvantage of this game 
 is that it is very short, even with all the side missions. 
  All in all this is a very good game with rich game-play and an amazing story, certainly best of 
 the type. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cablestein
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 15, 2006 10:38 am PT
Review:  I couldn't wait to play Gun as it's been so long since a Wild West action game has come out on 
 the PC. The closest match (shooter/action) I can think of is back in 1997 when LucasArts released 
 Outlaws.
  
  This game is extremely satisfying and refreshing. From this point on I will review individual elements.
 
  
  Gameplay - Gun uses an open-map concept with missions and side-mission in the vein of Grand Theft 
 Auto. Why do it differently... this formula WORKS and it's awesome to see it applied to something 
 other than modern urban environments or far-future space. I should say that the side-missions could 
 have expanded more... with more variety, and MORE missions. For example, there are no stage-coach 
 or train-riding side missions. What about high-noon shootouts? Square dancing and heavy drinking? 
 Etc. The game innovates with horses as you're able to use them just like automobiles all most. 
 Hop on and go, it's amazing. They do it so fluidly with such great animation... all twists and 
 turns and jumps. Too bad you can't ride in one stirrup and do stunts.
  
  Audio/Music - Top notch. The soundtrack to this game is incredible and sets the mood for all scenes. 
 It's very theatrical and booming. The sound effects and voice overs are amazing, and if you look 
 at the voice credits, most of the main characters are famous tough guy characters.
  
  Graphics - The animation in this game is stupendous. Cutscenes and cinematics look like they hired 
 film directors to take care of it. Textures and environments are beautiful... the terrain is so 
 lush and organic... hardly any straight edges. It's amazing how much variety they could put into 
 the terrain... every different area had it's own look.
  
  Violence: This game is terribly violent, and I love it... but it definately isn't for 13 year olds.
 
  
  Story: Thought it was great! I don't know what gamespot is talking about.
  
  Bad stuff: LOADING TIMES. Approaching every area in the world will give you some pause in the game 
 where things are loaded to memory. This is understandable... traditionally all games have this... 
 but the areas of this game aren't put together in a linear fashion. There's spots where 3 areas 
 collide in an intersection meaning you could go through 2 loading zones within 10 seconds of travel. 
 When you have a game like GTA San Andreas coming out with a massive world with absolutely no discernable 
 loading times as you play... it's disappointing that Gun wasn'; t as good as that.
  
  Bottomline: definately a must play for 2005. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: okirosan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 13, 2006 11:41 am PT
Review:  This is really great game which brings you to Wild Wild and scary West. It very good render emotions 
 and nature of late 19 th century at wild west. Also the side missions in the game let you to rest 
 from banging each other and running all the way like in other games. Unlimited ammo isn't very 
 good choice, but it has only six gun so it's good like in Tomb Raider :) . There are not very big 
 choice of guns and I prefer to buy guns, but there you can upgrade guns buy buying upgrades and 
 then that it's even better. Why shoot 2 times when you can upgrade and shoot 1 time? :) Really 
 great game there you can really relax buy riding a horse n the mountains and hills. Although sometimes 
 the enemy's number is too big, but you are a little to tough so it's an easy game though. I really 
 suggest you to try it and enjoy every second cause the game isn't very long but I hope that there 
 will appear more games like this and everyone will be able to be a Clint Eastwood in his westerns 
 :) . Good luck to you folks and play it with gusto. ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatburgersupris
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 12, 2006 10:26 pm PT
Review:  The game over all is refreshing. I enjoy playing. Just everytime I start to enjoy it the darn thing 
 stutters real bad. Now I know this is not my pc because I have had several freinds play as well, 
 and they seem to have the same problems. It is just a dissapointment because this is a fun and 
 good looking game. I would still reccomend it to anyone who is sick of the same old games out there. 
 I also own red dead revolver for the ps2 and it closeley resembles that game, only with much better 
 controls. So if you are looking for something new that will keep your attention for a little while 
 at least ( this game was much to short) than I would highly recomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Re_Das_7
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 10, 2006 12:19 am PT
Review:  Gun is so nice game got a hell of advantages and few bad things - disadvantges- 
  this game bring to me the sprit of the western life it was short but still good
  
  a-advantges
 
  
  1-good story
  2-cool weapons 
  3-at last there is a horses 
  4- open map
  5- alot of side missions
  6-upgrades
  
  b-disadvantges
  
  1- short game
  2- short of 
 money and when i done a side mission the game give me just ( 10 $- 30 $) r u kidding me gold mine 
 gives (10$) plz
  3- the cannon doesnot have cursor for shooting
  4- after i have fnished the game i have got two shootguns and a hourse...
  what am i gonna to 
 do with'em?????????????? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shawsvale
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 7, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for a long time to play a good western video game and now I finally can. GUN 
 is a game that allows you to venture through the wild west as an honest man with a gun. It has 
 side missions which are cool, but would be better if there were more. This game lets you interact 
 with the town folk and if you kill too many they start to fear you. The story is pretty good and 
 the short movies ft well.
  I can't wait until someone makes a western that is like GTA. Imagine venturing around the wild 
 west just as you could in the GTA game. That would be great.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_fuse2k5
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 5, 2006 6:50 am PT
Review:  GUN: 
  This is a fast paced game that gets right into the action. I didn't have the controller in my hands 
 good before I found myself trying to shoot my way off of a steam boat. This game could have been 
 twice as fun if you had more character development or had a choice to be good or bad. I often found 
 myself just riding around the country side trying to catch my breath before the next big shoot 
 out. All-in-all this is a good game that could have been better. The gun play and the riding physics 
 are excellent , but the rushed story takes away from the "Replay Value" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dacluett
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 19, 2006 3:22 pm PT
Review:  This is a fun, Western-themed, Grand-Theft-Auto style game from a third-person perspective and 
 RPG elements, where you have to fulfil the storyline while embarking on various side missions that 
 build up your skills. The graphics are about half the level of Doom 3, and the game itself has 
 some playability issues, where the camera perspective spins about uncontrollably in a very unpleasant 
 manner, especially when on horseback, which is pretty fun generally on its own. There are also 
 some graphic issues where the landscape skin disappears, leaving only the graphical elements -- 
 other characters, items, buildings, etc. -- against a white background. The gameplay is also generally 
 pretty short, less than half of GTA Vice City, which I played for about 30 hours. This game I completed 
 in about 10. It seems like it needs a patch to make it more stable, not as bad as Star Wars Knights 
 of the Old Republic 1 & 2 where 80 per cent of the sit-downs I stopped playing because it crashed, 
 but still has these glitches that keep me from loving it. It could be a lot more expansive, and 
 with a bigger storyline, especially considering as a Western it should be as big as the wide-open 
 range. Good buy if you find it on sale, as I did during the Christmas sale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gumpo
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jan 11, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so they couldn't really think of a good name - but please, lets not judge this game by 
 its cover, because once you get into it, you realize it really has the potential to start another 
 heavyweight franchise.
  
  Gun takes a lot of the elements that made GTA successful, and throws in the flavor of a wild west 
 environment. The game is made up of a big clump of missions, along with a story that works its 
 way in and out of your adventures. You get to do pretty much what you would expect from a game 
 described as GTA in the wild west: Shoot anyone, explore a world devoid of loading screens, and 
 since there's no cars to steal, take the horses instead.
  
  Gameplay is a combination of traditional 3rd person games like GTA, and FPS games in that you have 
 the ability to use "Quickdraw" basically a skill to slow down time, wherein you get a first person 
 view to control, and shoot as many people as you can before the timer expires. It sounds a little 
 weak at first, but once you get accustomed to it, its a seriously fun - and quite cool, feature.
 
  
  Storyline missions progress along with other sidequests. You are forced to complete at least a 
 few sidequests before moving on in the story, but if you want you can usually take on quite a few 
 more then what are required. The advantage to pulling off more sidequest missions, (which are typically 
 bring this here, kill that person, etc.) is you'll earn skill with whatever was used during the 
 mission: better control over horses, more damage with pistols, etc. You'll also earn gold, which 
 you can take to general stores to purchase basic tools and weapon modifications to beef up your 
 arsenal.
  
  The story is quite intriguing, if not a bit predictable, and actually tends to put a sense of urgency 
 in what you do so much so that you find your completing the story much faster then you wanted to, 
 leaving many sidequests alone to come back to later, only to find you've completed the whole story, 
 but still have several dozen sidequests left.
  
  Visuals and sound are a bit better then average, at least considering this game was also released 
 on the major consoles, which is usually a sign of graphics much worse then what Gun has. A fairly 
 large lush environment is actually so well molded that you can sometimes just ride around and take 
 in the sights. Sounds are good, and so is the music, but none of them are going to win any awards 
 in my book - they don't take anything away from the gameplay, but they don't add quite as much 
 as they should. Yes, guns sound good, and hearing an indian scream as you scalp him is pretty cool 
 too, but i never noticed anything worth ranting and raving about. Very solid sound and graphics, 
 like i said, especially considering this is basically a console port.
  
  The only downside to Gun is how insanely short it is, and that when compaired to the latest GTA, 
 its gameworld seems far too small. This is a good title to rent for a short time and play through, 
 or if you can find a good deal on a lovely addition to a collection - hopefully, we'll get to see 
 a sequel, with some bigger levels and a longer story.
  
  Bottom line - If your a fan of action games of either 1st or 3rd person varieties, this is a worthwhile 
 purchase/rent, and i highly reccomend you give it a try. I certainly wasn't dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcunited2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 9, 2006 11:15 pm PT
Review:  I personally think we need more games like this out on the market. I loved riding my horse on the 
 open plains and running with the buffalo anyways :p Its a fun game with a great story and there 
 are many twists along the way. And once you have beaten the main story there are side missions 
 some of these side missions include hunting down wanted theives, keeping piece in the town and 
 hunting wild beasts. The graphics are auwsome and the sound adds a real western feel. Please all 
 developers out there we need more Western type games and i hope they bring out a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 9, 2006 5:17 am PT
Review:  When you play through the first hour of Gun, you might get the impression that its just a mediocre, 
 generic action game with an Old West theme and ugly graphics. But once you get into it, youll 
 find that its truly unique. Gun is a fun shooter that accurately captures the bravado, brutality, 
 and romanticism of the Old West. Or, rather, what Hollywood has made the Old West out to be. It 
 has a semi-open-ended structure that offers a lot of side missions, a few unique mechanics, and 
 a lot of fun gun fights. It has a great atmosphere, and it does a great job of bringing the Old 
 West to life on your computer. The gameplay is pretty good, but its the intangibles that make 
 it worth playing.
  
  The best way to describe this game might be like Mafia, but with a lot faster pace, and without 
 the great graphics. You are in a fairly open-ended environment, where you can take on story missions, 
 or relatively short side missions. The side missions arent deep, challenging, or long, but they 
 have a lot of variety, and they are fun. You get a small inventory of weapons, all of which are 
 very accurate and somewhat overpowered. All of the missions in the game, except for perhaps the 
 final boss (a puzzle boss) are very easy. 
  
  This game manages to put an Old West touch on just about every shooter convention. The way that 
 it does this somehow makes everything about 25% more fun. A perfect example is the way that the 
 game handles your health. It has no health packs. Instead, you drink brandy to restore your health. 
 How can you not be charmed by a Spaghetti Western twist like that? There are a lot of others, like 
 how you get extra credit for shooting a guy off of his horse, or shooting a weapon out of a guys 
 hand. Guns audio complements its atmosphere very well. There is an old Western style soundtrack 
 playing in the background most of the time, and some good voice work. The main character sounds 
 a bit like The Punisher and the enemies are entertaining, with their numerous hillbilly-sounding 
 sound bites.
  
  I often wondered if there would ever be a game that implemented horse riding and combat well. That 
 question has now been answered. This game does it perfectly. Horses act as the games vehicles, 
 and they are a blast to play with. Its just too bad that they get shot out from underneath you 
 so often. They control easily, but also behave somewhat realistically. You can trample your enemies 
 or sprint around them in a circle while shooting at them with one hand. Jumping over obstacles 
 and trampling are particularly fun. 
  
  Gun will probably keep a lot of people away with its outdated graphics. The game has some bells 
 and whistles that make the characters in the game look decent, but overall, this game looks like 
 its something out of 2002. Low poly counts and ugly textures. Yup, its a Playstation 2 game. 
 The color brown completely dominates every screen. This may be realistic, but it doesnt make it 
 any easier to look at the games bare environments landscapes, which consists of almost nothing 
 but brown rocks and dirt. It would be hard to make an Old West game look really nice, and the fact 
 that this is a console port doesnt make it any easier. 
  
  Gun has been compared to the Grand Theft Auto series, but that comparison falls short in a lot 
 of ways. For one, this engine doesnt run as well. Gun hitches badly every time that you enter 
 a new zone, unlike the Grand Theft Auto series. Once you get outside of the city, the environments 
 are horribly bare. Also, most of the missions are very short and simple, unlike a lot of the missions 
 in Grand Theft Auto. The pony express missions can take as little as thirty seconds if you get 
 them right the first time. The game feels immersive, and you can take on any mission that you want, 
 but theres not a lot of exploration to do. For better or for worse, Gun is a very streamlined 
 game. 
  
  Guns gameplay is augmented by a very good story. Its a classic Western take down the local corrupt 
 powerful leader and all of his minions story. The story itself is maybe only 6 or 7 hours long. 
 Whether you get your moneys worth from this game depends upon whether you do a lot of the missions 
 on the side. Gun could definitely have benefited from a longer storyline.
  
  Gun is bound to be one of those games that sort of disappears from the landscape and is forgotten, 
 but its worth your while to check it out. The atmosphere is terrific and the gameplay has enough 
 unique features to make the game shine. The goal of Gun appears to have been to bring the Spaghetti 
 Western to your PC. The game definitely fulfills that goal, although better graphics and a longer 
 storyline would have been a big help. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perquak
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 8, 2006 4:37 am PT
Review:  I really loved this game until I encountered the final boss. It's like Grand Theft Auto on horseback. 
 The main missions and side missions are very interesting, a lot of fun and not too difficult. The 
 graphics and the sound are great. The story line is well written and extremely interesting. It's 
 relatively bug free. I only encountered one game crash thoughout the several hours that I played 
 the game. However, it does not recognize the Xbox 360 controller or the Saitek P880 game-pad. It's 
 a good thing that the keyboard and mouse combo work well.
  
  I was thoroughly amused and had great fun till the very end of the game. I spent about six hours 
 trying to beat the final boss and eventually gave up. He was impossible (for me) to beat. Game 
 designers should keep the difficulty level near constant throughout the game - this one went from 
 Normal to Insane. If you can deal with this type of frustration, get the game. If not, pass it 
 up.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrLaskowski
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2006 7:40 am PT
Review:  This was a birthday present from my loving wife. It is a good game to play if you are into a bit 
 of originality. I do not know of too many old west type games, so I was excited that I got this 
 one. The graphics are pretty solid, very cinematic. I enjoy the side missions, especially the bounty 
 hunter. These missions do not tend to have much relevence on the overall game, but still fun to 
 do, prolongs the short storyline, if anything. That is probably the biggest drawback I have so 
 far, is that the storyline is very short. It does not take a very long time to finish the game. 
 Overall I enjoy this game a lot and think it is a different type of third person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddis80
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 7, 2006 3:32 am PT
Review:  This is a great game to kill a few hours. Not the greatest game of all times, but still it gives 
 you good value for money. It should have been more difficult and some what easier to rome around 
 free without the mission you are in at the time keep naging you all the time. The missions and 
 story go also a bit too fast sometimes. You get the feeling there is no time to look around so 
 much. But as you go along it comes quite clear that it is necessery to take other smaller missions 
 and get hold of some gold if you are planning to get far. Other than that t e story is quite good 
 and it is easy to find your way around.
  
  
  
  But besides all that i can highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 3, 2006 6:19 am PT
Review:  Gun is in general a good game with its new concept and mechanisms. I actually liked it but only 
 when I played for 30 minutes, since i did not appreciate it in the first time ...!! It has got 
 a good graphics (above the average) especially with a good graphic card. the sounds are let's say 
 fine but could've been better in fact. on the other hand there's the story which i loved very much, 
 and i think that it is the strongest point in the game! unfortunately that we encounter a short 
 moments of fun since the game itself is short, and we find ourselves craving for more action and 
 missions... however, it's good to have fun for 10 hours than boar for 30 hours!!! All in all Gun 
 is a good game and it carries quite a big deal of fun and action although some little annoying 
 defects such as the "camera angles". Yet, Gun remains a recommended game for action/adventure gamers 
 ! So pick it up, u won't regret it ...! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pet100ter
Rating: 3.4
Date: Jan 6, 2006 8:43 am PT
Review:  fbdfhddsfhsdfhsdfhdsfhdsfh fgnxd dsfbdfbf sfgnmdsg msfdgnjmdsfjhnsarfhjsd We encourage you to try 
 to get your review right the first time -- you may choose to edit it later on, but by doing so, you 
 will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write your review 
 in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local disk, then copy and paste it into the 
 posting box belowWe encourage you to try to get your review right the first time -- you may choose 
 to edit it later on, but by doing so, you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. 
 We encourage you to write your review in a word processor or text editor, save it to your local 
 disk, then copy and paste it into the posting box below 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaust111
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 1, 2006 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Gun another one form activisions stable ,a neat one i will say .its puts you in the boots of colton 
 white who lives in the wild wild west hunting with his father ned (thatz how it starts a sort of 
 a tutorial) . then comes the evil ned is killed on a boat that you and him are on by a preacher kind 
 of a guy and guess what now you want revenge and u sure get one . a fairly simple storyline and 
 a very short one also .keeping the side missions apart the story hardly gives about 2 hrs of gameplay 
 .neversoft though has done a good job in delivering the open ended gameplay in gun .its just plain 
 fun riding your horse with powerful rifles ,shotguns and of course pistols shooting off the bad 
 guys. the voice performance of colton is delivered by 
  Kris Kristofferson ,which is quite excellent and does a very good job of developing a instant liking 
 for your hero. all in all its a good game with good gameplay ,nice graphics and sound just that 
 it should have been a bit longer . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgrant0235
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 4, 2006 12:26 pm PT
Review:  Gun seemed like a decent concept. There aren't many gritty western titles released anymore. Sadly, 
 the only really good thing I can say about this game is the story. The actual game play suffers 
 from a lot of things. In the end, the game just lacks the polish it needs. 
  
  First and foremost, Gun looks terrible. It isn't the modeling or the art direction that I dislike, 
 it is the horrible textures and lack of detail I hate. Everything looks as bland as possible. Turning 
 every amount of detail up as possible didn't help matters, either. 
  
  However, the sound work and voice acting are quite good. The main character is played by Thomas 
 Jane, who you may remember from the 2004 Punisher movie. (I actually like that film.) Another notable 
 role is done by country singer/ actor Kris Kristofferson, who was in the Blade trilogy. Everyone 
 else does a standard job, no complaints here. The rest of the audio work is also good. I like the 
 Hollywood-esq. orchestra music.
  
  The story revolves around the character of Colton White. After a bit of hunting, which plays as 
 a training area, you and your dad, Ned, go on a steamboat ride. The boat is attacked by a preacher 
 man and a gang of thugs in search of an artifact. This artifact is in the hands of Ned. After a 
 bit of fighting, Ned gives you the revelation that he's not your father and makes you jump off 
 the boat with the artifact in your possession. The rest of the game has you in search of the truth 
 while running into many roadblocks along the way. The story goes all which directions. 
  
  The game play, itself, isn't all that bad. It just doesn't do the gun slinging much justice. It 
 plays like your standard third-person shooter. You do more damage when you shoot someone in the 
 head and can do melee attacks with your knife when they get close. There is also a quick-draw ability 
 which plays sort of like a bullet time feature. This allows you to take down several foes in a 
 short period of time and never have to reload, for whatever reason. When your health gets low, 
 all you have to do is drink your magical Jesus Juice from your flask, and you're instantly healed. 
 It never tells you what you're actually drinking. 
  
  There is also a bit of horse riding. You never have your own horse that is your own. You just go 
 to whatever horse is standing there and use it at your discretion. You steal horses that dont 
 really seem to belong to anyone. 
  
  Gun is short and doesn't take long enough to give you a good impression of it. The game is sort 
 of mediocre in a few ways and lacks any real polish. It feels rushed all the way through. I don't 
 dislike the game. I just wish it would have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: echoswolf1
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 26, 2005 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Ok, always dreamed about flying, but it was never in a Western while riding a horse. This becomes 
 especially problematic when you are on a mission with a limited time frame, and all of a sudden 
 you're running through the air, trying to figure out where the heck the ground went. During one 
 of the missions when you have to follow Clay, you'd be riding along and he'd be 5 feet in the air. 
 I'm sure the horses love this, less wear and tear on their shoes. 
  
  The other glitch is that if you decide for any reason to restart a mission, your horse may disappear. 
 On one mission I ended up having to walk back to town when all of the horses disappeared during 
 one mission in the bad lands. Finally I was rescued by a bandit, that I quickly dispatched and 
 took his horse. Of course the horses are magical in this and often between scenes your horse will 
 turn from an Appaloosa to brown, to gray. 
  
  I love the game. It is very addictive. But I'm anxiously awaiting the patch to fix the glitches 
 in the rendering, and frame rate and make the magical flying horses a thing of the past.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayman
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 25, 2005 11:05 am PT
Review:  first of all, it is very good game, it contains new ideas, an amazing gameplay any & anyone will 
 enjoy playing it.
  
  When i installed the game and started to play it, i was so excited to play this game but i found 
 some disadvantages in the game as it is very short & its graphics are excellent but not bad at 
 all.
  But at gameplaying it is amazing, wonderful, really excellent & Sound is good too .
  The story too, its very beautiful and simple story & i am sure that every one will like it.
  
 
  at last i advice everyone to try this game because you will feel that there are new, diffrent ideas 
 which will make you too excited, thank you for reading my review & i hope that you liked it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csoprano
Rating: 4.9
Date: Dec 18, 2005 12:26 am PT
Review:  I went Game Stop looking for a new game and saw this on the shelf. I just recently beat F. E. A. R. 
 and was looking another good game. I looked at the box and thought "This looks kinda cheesy." I 
 thought maybe the game was better than it looked on the box. I was wrong. The graphics are horrible! 
 I've played games that came out three or four years ago that look better than this. Most PS2 games 
 look better than this! Since I'm a fan of the old west/civil war era, I thought I would give it 
 a try. That was a mistake. If you have an XBOX 360 or a high end PC, you will be sickened by the 
 graphics. The models are blocky, the facial movements are lame, the lighting is horrible, and nothing 
 is realistic at all. The interiors of buildings are out of proportion and have no detail. The ammo 
 and health bars are even chessy looking! What's even more crappy is that even on a high end PC, 
 it's still choppy! The story is jerky and has too many plot holes. I mean, regaining your health 
 from drinking out of whiskey bottle? What the hell is that?! You could could buy the original Half-Life 
 from 1998 and still have a more realistic game! The game is somewhat entertaining, but nothing 
 that will keep you up long hours. The only thing I liked about it was the fact that you could go 
 into the bar and play poker. I took it back the next day before I was even half way through it. 
 It left me wondering, "Did this game actually come out in 2005?" It'll probably be $10 at Wal-Mart 
 in a couple months. Spend your $10 on a good third person game like Hitman. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andoZo
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 17, 2005 2:24 pm PT
Review:  First off all I want to say that this was a game that didn't take much time to make a 100% on. 
 I got all the stuff thats possible to collect and find 
  (except 1 goldcave) . I made the game in under 10 hour! If you just do what you are supposed to 
 do, this is not a hard game. 
  It is also a kind of autoaim. If you aim a half meter avay from what you are aiming on, you still 
 hit. 
  The positive things: Riding a horse is something they have made good in this game. Bow and arrow 
 is very cool to use! And exceptionally the dynimite-arrow! BOOOO!!! :P A great game ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokeywaterz
Rating: 4.6
Date: Dec 17, 2005 10:04 am PT
Review:  The story has everything a fan of the Old West could want: gunfights, Indians, saloons, sporting 
 women, and horses. There's something happening at every turn. This is Gun's high-point. 
  
  But then there are the negatives...
  
  For one, play is choppy at best. Although I'm running 
 the game on a pc with plenty of oomph, there's lag. With a 256 mb Video Card, a 3.35 ghz processor, 
 and a gig of RAM, I would think I could run Gun with all the settings on high. Not so. Even changing 
 my game and video settings to the lower end did little to make gameplay more fluid.
  
  Two, the story doesn't play all that well. Though the action is fast, getting to the actual play 
 is slow. This may be unavoidable in terms of trying to combine a story with gameplay, but for the 
 average gamer, Gun may well be too slow to keep a player truly interested in beating the game.
 
  
  Although I've enjoyed playing Gun, I've found the most fun I've had with it is playing when I'm 
 bored out of my mind and there's little else to do.
  
  The negatives far outweigh any redeeming factors in Gun. I would not have bought it had I known 
 of the problems and the lack of excitement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rileyhaj21
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 16, 2005 3:29 pm PT
Review:  I was interested in this game when it was first shown in a issue of Game Informer. I like the fact 
 that the developers were really trying to go out and do a lot of things in an environment that 
 has not been explored in a video game in this fashion. Although they did a good job it seems like 
 if they took a little more time to work on some things it would have been better. For instance 
 the screen freezes for a second when it is loading a new section. The controls were really sloppy 
 even with mouse sensitivity really low. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: never-named
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 1, 2007 7:10 am PT
Review:  This latest trend of developers sucking out the originality that was set by Rockstar's Grand Theft 
 Auto series has pissed me off very often. Poor titles such as True Crime series of games are so 
 blatant in their disregard that it makes me want to throw up. With the release of Gun Neversoft 
 have been able to carve a wonderfully thrilling, yet somewhat shallow, experience that somehow 
 manage to break the mold, despite the fact that it's mostly cosmetic.
  
  Gun is a typical free-roaming game, but there's a catch; it's set in the old west, a time when 
 burping in public was allowed (nice!) . Remove cars and set horses and mustangs (not the car) instead, 
 bring down the tall skyscrapers and develop wooden row-houses and you've got Gun. This is what 
 sets this game apart from all those cheap copycats.
  
  Neversoft showed a radical change of pace in their game-making. From the quirky Tony Hawk series 
 of Skateboarding games to an ultra-violent gritty western shooter, that is a very noticeable change.
 
  
  The game is a visual treat. With some glaring (yet subtle) lighting and highly detailed character 
 models with some nicely expressive facial animations. The PC version has some extra graphical bells 
 and whistles. Normal-mapping (known mostly by tech-geeks still ogling at Doom 3) is one of them 
 (I recommend Gamespot's preview of Gun for the PC for more info) . The controls are quite good and 
 any casual PC gamer will adapt nicely to the default scheme.
  
  The world of Gun is massive, yet extremely shallow. You really get a sense of immersion whilst 
 riding a horse, but you might wish that the game was much more populated. Another thing with the 
 game is that there isn't much of it. The story can be dealt with in about 7 to 9 hours for casual 
 gamers and some technical glitches are ever-present.
  
  Gun is a nicely executed, often-thrilling and awesomely written (and voiced) game with immaculate 
 production values, it cannot be missed by fans of shooters or sandbox games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gsi_x3x
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2005 12:37 pm PT
Review:  In Gun you play with a man that went to a journey by his "father" that raised him to search for 
 his true father.
  The game is played in the past, and you have your missions and side quest's most of the time they 
 are fun.
  The game has great control and can be tuned by you as you like.
  I don't wanna tell you the hole story, sow give it a tray its worth it.
  In first play you could 
 play it hours, i loved it.
  Game-play is awesome I give it 10.
  Graphics needs an improvement I give it 8.
  Sound amazing thats all I got to say because its 
 really great I give it 9.
  Value well I gave that 8.
  Overall the game is Superb and I give it 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: essam24
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2005 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Pretty much after trying a majority of games even with a decent rating and review. I don't recall 
 the last Wild West game aside from Lucas Arts "Outlaws" and Dead Man's Hand" that were average 
 at best since they just got the game marketed but didn't bother adding any content. Who doesn't 
 get tired of seeing and hearing "Yep that is what we need is another WW2 shooter or Clancy games 
 where you sneak around, how about something with a cool story and alot of fun to play. After grabbing 
 GUN this is exactly what you get. The only reason I never gave a TEN/TEN is because this game isn't 
 multiplayer. Console or PC, i am still waiting for a coop multiplayer to be made.
  SWAT 4 with a buddy is a blast but how about something where you both do the campaign together 
 and do everything multiplayer against or with each other, after all we are the ones playing the 
 game, hell i'll even buy it:} 
::::::

::::::
UserName: War_Tourist
Rating: 7.9
Date: Dec 8, 2005 9:03 pm PT
Review:  So far very enjoyable. 
  
  The horses are amazing and in my opinion a little bit of a revelation. They're for all intents 
 and purposes vehicles, in this case a very warthog-like driving single seat "turret" vehicle. The 
 animations are what bring them to life, with great ambient, turning and galloping animations. When 
 lined up 2 by 2 on a stage coach, all in glorious maxed out 1600x1200 (awesome PC version BTW) , 
 it's really beautiful. They're fun to drive, are potent as a weapon by simply running over enemies, 
 and don't abridge your weapon "vocabulary" while mounted (I was able to use all firearms, zoom, 
 use bullet-time, etc) . To the best of my knowledge there's no MP, but as someone with an interest 
 in multi-station vehicles in MP, the horses and stage coaches are bigtime inspirational. 
  
  The bear attack kicked ass.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ammo-ReD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2005 10:40 am PT
Review:  This is a very cool game! Most probably the best "cowboy"-game I've played since Gun Smoke on Nintendo 
 :) I sometimes wonder why there aren't many "cowboy"-games out there. They are some of the coolest 
 games (proven by Gun) . The graphics is the best part of the game (after the atmosphere) . The gameplay 
 is just right; not filled with action, and to less of it :) The sound is the weakest part of the 
 game (but NOT BAD!) , and could be a bit more adjusted (if you know what I mean?) . I would advice 
 every wild west-maniac to buy this game! Even the ones who aren't into the wild west-thing. It's 
 a cool game, no matter what! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoni45
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 8, 2005 3:52 am PT
Review:  wow its ones of the games that i liked so much becuse the gameplay 
  and the free form and exploring the old west and the guns in this game are not like i expcted to 
 be look like they are not look like real old west guns and this is a disapointment for me but i 
 liked the game it look like its goin to be fun to play this game i will defently recomand to my 
 friends to buy it so thay can have fun like i had the fun when i played the gmae on my personal 
 computer and my exbox 360 and the sony playstation 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Futebol
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 7, 2005 6:28 am PT
Review:  BUT.... It's all about killing indians and wild animals ( just in the tutorial I must have killed 
 30 animals ) . The riding system is really fun, otherwhise I don't think that sporring a horse qould 
 kill him that fast. There are masterpice sound problems, the sounds are heard after the shot. The 
 graphics are ugly, except for the charachter that are beauty shapes and textured. It's an easy 
 game to play. The biggest problem of the game is the ideologic problems....
  I think it's a Bush game, all about North American "Heroes" exploring the Wild West... What is 
 not shown in the game is what happened to the indians, the owners of the land, after the arrival 
 of white man.
  If you have this in mind you can play it, it's a fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leeveeu
Rating: 2
Date: Dec 6, 2005 4:40 am PT
Review:  If you want a game with antique graphics, confused AI and difficult to handle controls, GUN PC 
 is the choice for you. Bad textures, low poly models make you think "Ok, which year is this? 2005? 
 I don't think so". A general feeling of frustration emerges from the very first five minutes of 
 playing this game.
  Just by adding glow to some really bad environments won't benefit this game guys! When it comes 
 to special effects, the blood coming out from a person's face seems to float in the air, the steamboat's 
 flames seem like burning beans.
  Don't waste good money on this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alkalinetrio000
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 5, 2005 8:20 am PT
Review:  I really want a good Western game, but Gun along with Red Dead Revolver continues to disappoint, 
 the only exception in the failure that is the Western genre remains Outlaws. This game disappoints 
 on all levels. The story is ham fisted and boring, the controls are jerky, and the camera is awful 
 but the biggest failure is the graphics. Speaking on the PC release of this game in particular 
 the graphics in this game are down right awful. Playing on a NVIDIA 7800 with an AMD 4000 I expect 
 a little more from PC games then their console counter parts but this game didnt even look like 
 a PS2 game, seeming to keep company more with Dreamcast or the N64. Muddy textures, awful clipping, 
 and almost no lighting / shadow effects to speak of. This would be a non-issue if it had game play 
 or story to carry it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BammBammBamm
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 4, 2005 7:43 pm PT
Review:  Mediocrity at its plainest. In all seriousness I had high expectations for this game. The marketing 
 blitz had excellent western movie cuts and pans, a whole revenge story and exciting gunplay plastered 
 all over television. So when I finally tore this sucker open and loaded it up I was disappointed 
 to find another severely over-hyped game. You would think that since its produced by Neversoft 
 that this game would have all the fun of any Tony Hawk incarnation multiplied by guns, prostitutes, 
 gratuitous violence and the old dirty west. Yet this was not to be. The graphics were rudimentary. 
 They were way below the industry par. Any game where you can run up to a wall and watch your arms 
 magically disappear through it is doing something wrong. The gunplay was uber-lame. It just didnt 
 feel right at all. There was a kind of cool (yet unoriginal) slowdown quick draw feature where 
 you could headshot henchmen by the handful. But truth be told this felt like a game that should 
 have been played on a PSONE. The sound wasnt really a factor it was just simply there. The story 
 was clichd and overplayed. Im sorry neversoft its a genre that really is untapped by quality 
 games, its too bad you guys had to stink it up with another flop. The horseback riding was the 
 best feature of the game, everything else was really ho hum. This would have been great five years 
 ago, but you guys just missed the boat. 
  
  Note: For those interested in playing a solid western shooter check out Red Dead Revolver it (unlike 
 this waste of time) will not disappoint.
  
  Bamm
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chilidog_128
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 2, 2005 7:40 pm PT
Review:  I had high hopes about this game. I had seen it billed as an open-ended role-playing epic extravaganza. 
 It pays to be cynical.
  Perhaps I'm jaded, but I prefer to think of myself as well-seasoned. I've been playing video games 
 since they started, so I've played a lot of good ones. Unfortunately, this means that new ones 
 have big shoes to fill in terms of novelty and originality. Gun brings nothing new to the table 
 which hasn't already been done better.
  Graphically, Gun can stand up to many of the more-recently released PC games: the textures and 
 lighting are bright and eye-pleasing. Aurally, too, the game is pleasing, and it is Kris Kristofferson's 
 voice acting alone which garners this game a few extra points on my Reviewer's Tilt. The gameplay, 
 however, is wretchedly disappointing.
  After the tutorial finished, I was very excited to be entering the "open-ended" portion of the 
 game. Just having ridden into town, I was interested to see what the townsfolk had to offer. So 
 I walked up to the piano player in the local saloon and hit the interact key, expecting an interesting, 
 perhaps scripted, interaction. Unfortunately, I instead grabbed him by the neck. Thinking this 
 a fluke, I approached a person sitting at a nearby table (after everyone had come back into the 
 saloon -- they had all run away when I assaulted the piano player.) I hit the interact key, and 
 not surprisingly, grabbed him by the neck.
  There is nothing role-playing about this game. It centers around action-based missions and power-up 
 items. Ammo is lying everywhere. There is no interaction other than with mission NPCs. The missions 
 are repetitive, uninspired, and ultimately boring. Shooting people in the head is only exciting 
 for a little while.
  In a fit of pique I began to kill everyone in town. There were no repercussions for this anti-social 
 behavior, other than a number of "showdowns." The townsfolk kept coming back, I kept head-shotting 
 them, I'd get through another "showdown" mode, ad nauseum.
  Too many games are coming out now which feature brilliant and beautiful engines which are full 
 of potential, but which also feature meager, nauseating, intelligence-insulting game-play. Gun 
 in just another game which falls into the formula-ultaviolence twitch-gaming niche. Stick with 
 Tony Hawk, or play the original Deus Ex. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chetnik19
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2005 12:50 pm PT
Review:  The developers did a great job. The Story is great. And each mission in the Story game is different 
 and exciting. You have a lots of cool westren weapons. And the best of all you could ride any horse 
 you find. And the side missions are cool gameplay elments beacuse it adds some more value to the 
 game. So if you completed the story and the sides missions you can play in Alhambra Hotel a card 
 game (Dodge City) or explore the lands by a horse or hunt some wild animals. The Controls works great 
 and the graphics are fine too. So the bad thing is only that the all of this can be completed in 
 very short time. In short the game is worth your cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LACOP
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 29, 2005 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Good, but definietly could have been better. More free roaming would have been nice, more intense 
 shootouts, and not so short. and the girl died too early. The story line was good and the game 
 was fun. and nothing beats riding through town on a fast horse firing your twin revolvers... or 
 one revolver if its more you... at a whole bunch of bandits before jumping off, grabbing your shotgun, 
 and blowing away every bandit in the bar before settling for a game of Texas-Hold-Um. Overall, 
 the game was good but could have been fixed alot more, a sequel would definetly be apprieciated. 
 This is not a game for the kids however, with its language, intense battles, and some sexual content, 
 this is for the teens and up only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mehfuz
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 28, 2005 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Gun is a game where you will find yourself in a western environment. First good thing about this 
 game is its new and fresh ideas. Game main story mission is remarkable and thrilling. You can do 
 lots of new things in the game and most enjoyable one is horse riding. Gun fights are excellent 
 and you have a vast collection of guns even melee attacks are possible to do with melee weapons. 
 There are good amounts and varieties of side quests present in the game even though after some 
 missions they seem to be repetitive and boring but they will increase your stats. There are various 
 types of upgrade present in the game. The main drawback that you feel for this game is that it 
 is very short. Even in higher difficulty the missions are fairly easy except the last story mission. 
 Graphics are fantastic and some visuals are really looks fine but you will find graphics corruptions. 
 Sounds are really good and nicely balanced with the situations and the western theme of the game. 
 There is no in game load option in the game that mean you have to quit to the main menu in order 
 to load a game. Though some limitations its a game of worth playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sccadet2009
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 27, 2005 11:41 pm PT
Review:  It'a good, goes a little quick. Needs to open up more story wise. Jenny needs to live, and she 
 is hot. Can't get any action from the Whorehouse, and needs to have bigger cities. Needs to have 
 more buildings to go into, and Cole needs a house. Blood could be a little more realistic. But 
 other then that, graphics are good and so is the realistic dying of horses and people. The rest 
 of this is just to take up the word count count count count count count count count count count 
 count count count count count count count count count count count count count count count count 
 count count count count count count count count count count count count count count count count 
 count count count count count count count count count count count count count count count count 
 count count count count count count count count count count count count count count count count 
 count count count count count count count count count count count count count count count count 
 count count count count count count count count count count count count count count count count 
 count count count count count count count count count count count count count 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EatU4Lunch
Rating: 4.6
Date: Nov 26, 2005 11:26 pm PT
Review:  Good points:
  
  First free from game set in the west.
  Decent atmosphere.
  Platable plot. (FAR from good though.)
  
  Flaws:
  
  Stats do almost nothing. There is really 
 no reason to do sidequests except to get money, which you can spend on upgrades which also do almost 
 nothing.
  
  Horses feel unfinished. This may annoy some players, others may not even notice - but it drove 
 me nuts. You don't own a horse. Thats right. This is a game about the west and you cannot 'own' 
 a horse. Instead, horses, one of the most prized possessions at the time wander all over the game 
 world and you just grab one when you want. Even more annoying is the fact that say you picked up 
 a nice brown horse, then accepted some mission only to suddenly find yourself sitting on a spotted 
 white hourse. 
  
  Sidequests are more repetative than space invaders. Go find X, kill X or knock X out. Rinse and 
 repeat. Once you've done a sidequest, you've pretty much done them all.
  
  Character interaction is lacking. There are no NPCs in the towns, nobody you can talk to and maybe 
 find out some information/history etc. There is no free form character development, it's all done 
 through cutscenes. In other words, there is NO reason to do anything BUT the main quest which can 
 be finished in 4 hours.
  
  Main Quest is short and rushed. The parts of the game where you think you have entered what you 
 expect to be a major part of the game turn out to last 30 minutes. Welcome to Dodge city. Ok, we're 
 leaving. Welcome to Empire City. Time to move on... and so on.
  
  The Word is empty. Aside from random "Bandit Attacks" which most of the time you will not even 
 notice, there is nothing out there except mounds of gold you can mine. There is NO reason to explore 
 the world, which by the way is tiny. I mean would it be so hard to put more wild life in the word 
 or more random encounters?
  
  Overall, the game is not 'bad' but it's not going to blow you away with open ended gameplay, a 
 great plot nor provide you with days of fun. Unless you're just dying to play a FPS in a western 
 setting, save your money.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigJ411
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 26, 2005 12:17 pm PT
Review:  GUN is a great experience thats way too short. The gameplay is fantastic the shootouts are very 
 fun because they remind you of old school westerns. Riding on horseback makes you feel very powerful 
 too because on horseback your able to trample the hell out of ememys. The graphics are great especially 
 if you have a good PC because then youll get the same results that you would on X360. The added 
 detail is awesome but the game looks great regardless. The sound is incredible they did a great 
 job of choosing the right voices for the right characters. See the major flaw is the storyline 
 its great but gets to the point way too fast which means your at the end of the game before you 
 know it (about 6 hours) . In conclusion GUN is a great title that shouldve been longer. Im hoping 
 Neversoft gets another shot and makes a sequel thats journey doesnt end so abruptly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turbohawk
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 25, 2005 10:52 am PT
Review:  FYI: I don't buy console games anymore. I refuse to "play" that "buy another console" game anymore. 
 With that said, this game is a made-for-console-game adapted to the PC. And that short-changes 
 what could have been an awesome game.
  
  With the PC version you get slightly better graphics resolution (but overall the graphics are below 
 par for a PC) and quicker load/save times.
  
  The game is a wonderful change from "fantasy" RPG's. I hope that this isn't the only western offering 
 for the PC. This shows how fun a western game can be, even with all it's flaws. The main flaw is 
 that the game is short. The main missions that advance the plot (and the most interesting) require 
 that you do many repetitive (and almost identical) side-missions to build up your skills so that 
 you don't have your butt handed to you fighting the bosses. Yep, bosses. Damn you consoles!
  
  I enjoyed the 4 hour (and I took my sweet time) ride it took me to finish the game with the 
 exception of one mission where you fight the main boss in a cave which was just plain frustrating... But 
 overall it's left me wanting more. That would be nice if a patch or 2 were released to add some 
 more content... but that usually doesn't happen.
  
  Heck, I'd have to recommend renting this title which means you'll have to play it on your console! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coltACP
Rating: 4.7
Date: Nov 25, 2005 5:29 am PT
Review:  Well i got this game expecting it to live up to its 7.4 review score and for all intents and purposes 
 it really shud have. But this game does not want to run playably on my PC, the framerate is pathetic 
 the graphics pretty terrible and the sound completely cripples itself about 30 minutes into play. To 
 say this game is a poor translation to PC is an understatment as it really should not be like this 
 on MY PC which can run Doom 3, Farcry, Guild wars all at full whack, yes my system is old but if 
 it can run some of the best looking games without a hitch and is also specced WELL above the minimum 
 stated requirements on the box, then why the hell does GUN not work?? simple, whomever they got 
 to port it made a sloppy job of it. Definately a console game and not a PC game. If it worked im 
 sure i wud have complained about the length of the game and a few issues i had with AI errors, 
 maybe given it a fair 6 out of ten. But again it doesnt work on a system that it should do so i 
 cant give it the same score i would the console versions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dazion
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2005 9:22 am PT
Review:  First of all, Storyline are the best, the suspense is the best, means the games makes its good. 
 Gameplay are 100% good. I recommend game to have fun and kill. I noticed a little thing in video 
 resolution, has some glitces in the stages, but thats ok. Game is fast, Not that hard, Keeps u 
 awake on what gonna happends next chapter. 
  
  I think the game really great, i give it a 9.0. Cuz its has my favorite, Good Storyline, SUSPENSE 
 and Action. 
  
  For a third person view is the best, better than Silent Hill :) .
  Better than Land of Dead, cuz LOD sucks.
  
  :. dazie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkarpHedin
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 23, 2005 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Gun is Neversofts new big IP, set in the ol' west. You play as a guy named Colton White (played 
 by Thomas Jane) , as he travels along with his father Ned (played by Kris Kristofferson) , or father-figure 
 at least, hunting bears and various other animals that come their way. 
  The first part of the game is actually pretty clever. Basically, you're on a hunt with Ned, and 
 as you hunt, you'll learn the basics of how the game works. 
  
  After that, without spoiling anything, stuff starts to happen, and you eventually end up in Dodge 
 City, where you'll meet up with a bunch of different characters. I'm not planning to say much about 
 the story, so I'll leave it at that.
  
  The gameplay in Gun is solid, and provides an interesting experience throughout the game, with 
 lots (and by that I mean LOTS) of firefights and horseback riding along the way. I had some problems 
 with the way the mouse behaved at first, but with some tweaking it turned out to be pretty enjoyable. 
 The game is relatively short if you only stick to the story. There are however a lot of optional 
 side-quests along the way, including Wanted-posters, pony-express missions and so on. There is 
 also a pretty big arsenal at your disposal throughout the game, since you practically get a new 
 weapon every time you complete a mission. You'll also improve you stats throughout the game, so 
 you'll get better at shooting, and so on.
  
  The graphics are good, but not outstanding. There's a lot of clipping going on on the models, and 
 some textures that's stretched for no good reason at all. Other than that, the textures are sharp, 
 and the environments look pretty awesome at times. 
  The sound is also pretty good, but it isn't really in-sync with what's going on in a cut-scene. 
 This gets pretty annoying at times, and other than that it's fairly good.
  
  In conclusion, this game is pretty fun, and a solid new IP for Neversoft. I was kind of worried 
 at first, when I heard that they were creating a new IP, but after playing it I'm pretty satisfied 
 with the result. In short, if you expect GTA in the ol' west, youre probably not going to 
 find it here, though it's pretty similar. What you'll find is a solid shooter with a good western 
 story to go with it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrandonForland
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 22, 2005 12:25 am PT
Review:  I hate this game with a passion. They could have made this game so much better. They screwed up 
 real bad. Its kinda funny, in the commercial they made it look so cool with video editing and stuff 
 but its not like that at all. I hate it dont buy it. waste of money. When I bought it I was going 
 to go home and do reviews on the game. The return policy on it says that you cant return the game 
 unless its unopened. Well that was my plan originally but I forgot and opened it on the way home 
 to see what its like. Im so dumb! So im stuck with a horible game without multiplay and waste of 
 45.00 dollars. This sucks so bad! Cause with that money I could've bought BF2: Special forces. 
 OOOOOOOOOOHhhhhhhhhhhh mannnnnnnnnnn! Peace out my buds! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tanmann5
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 21, 2005 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Everyone should play this game. It's like GTA in the old west, without the thievery. There is a 
 storyline right out of a spaghetti western like Eastwood made them, but it's open-ended so you 
 can explore and try everything the game has to offer. You also run around doing side missions to 
 improve your stats and get money to buy upgrades to improve your weapons. You get to ride around 
 on a horse and the gameplay while on horseback is superbly done. The missions are varied from racing 
 the clock to shoot'em ups to playing Texas hold'em poker and other old west activities. The scenery 
 is amazing if your videocard can handle the graphics on high settings. The music sets the perfect 
 mood throughout the game and the voice acting is spot on. This is one of the most fun games I've 
 played ever.
  
  One of the only downsides of the game is that it gets a little too easy later in the game after 
 you've upgraded your hero and weapons, and you can't change the difficulty setting after you've 
 started. Once you get to the bosses though, it gets pretty tough again.
  
  About the rating, there is a lot of violence and blood 'n guts, but very slight nudity (one painting) 
 and mild suggestive dialogue, but nothing anyone 13 and up hasn't seen worse. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fabioshinichi
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 21, 2005 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Well, I played some older similar games like Outcast and about GUN there's nothing really amazing 
 to tell. There are, of course, new possibilities and lot of action. You've got many side quest 
 and some are very creative (like hunt down a wild animal or do some herd job with cattle) . But 
 the great point is that the game play adapts on some situations (like manning a cannon from a boat 
 to beat other cannon boats) and the history keeps the pace of the action.
  The bad side is the fact that the map isn't very clear at the first sight. Sometimes you've got 
 to make a great turn to reach a spot that's near but on the other side of a cliff and you won't 
 find the way easily. You've got to play for a long time just to know the landscape. Thanks some 
 side quests obligates you to run into the wilderness thus making you more familiar with it.
  That said, it's a 8 score game worth playing for the history and the fast pacing action... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaybbq
Rating: 6.9
Date: Nov 21, 2005 1:09 am PT
Review:  Don't expect great action and good storie. The first 2hours are good but you will realize that 
 the entire game run like that: killing bandits, blowing out rocks from some horses way and trying 
 to find something to do with the hope that the game will last for some more time.
  
  The graphics are not very good but hard to run!!
  The sounds are medium, especialy for the weapons. 
 The voices are great thats all. The horses rides are great but, like gamespot say, its to easy 
 to find a horse. Just look around and you wiil find one to ride.
  
  A game to rent (yes! you can rent pc games) , not to buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: circleoffear
Rating: 9.1
Date: Nov 20, 2005 7:34 pm PT
Review:  I find that this game will become a trilogy. A great success. People don't understand short games, 
 a bigger trilogy. "This is a 19 century GTA" I must agree. I find that the graphics are very detailed. 
 the voice overs could of been better. One more remark this game is highly addictive for some reason 
 that i don't know. Once again this game (GUN) has been a wonderful success! (For a large majority 
 of people who have been exposed to it.) 
  
  Damn 100 words!!!!!!!!!!!! 
  
  For i don't have this game but i looking forward to have it. My friend showed me. I hope i could 
 of givin lots more of feedback on this particular game, but this is how much i know of it. So far 
 so good. I see a great futur for this game and its trilogy (if there will be one) . Goodluck! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bonanza35
Rating: 2
Date: Nov 20, 2005 2:48 pm PT
Review:  awkward floating camera 3rd person view makes for confusing game play
  graphics seem amarturish and simple minded. After laboring through the introduction and moving 
 to the training session on horse riding, i had became so enraged that i pulled out the game disk 
 and busted it into pieces! I attempted to race jeb over 12 times only to at best just barely keep 
 up behind. this game needs some serius cheat codes! why do producers put out such poor quality 
 3rd person shooters using a floating camera view making it very frustrating keeping tract of what 
 one is looking at or one is going. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jedo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 20, 2005 4:07 pm PT
Review:  I'm amazed how fast this game got reviewed. After 4 days since its release I already saw around 
 15 user reviews. Must've been those commercials on TV that caught our attention. The flashing commercial 
 left us hoping for more than the game can actually offer. Even though I might be a little late 
 with my review I must do a negative review some day and this is a good time for that.
  
  Core
  
  Storyline: 
  
  You as Cole are hunting together with your father to sell game to 
 the passing by ships. Just as your dad takes care of some business with one of the ladies onboard, 
 the ship gets attacked and he dies -  revenge, blah blah blah... kill everyone back... unravel a 
 mystery.... the whole deal.... The usual western movie storyline. The story is one of the game's 
 strong moments. The game feels like a movie. 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Well there are two sides to this coin. It's both good and bad. You grow into the stroy and follow 
 it logically. There's a large map that you explore as you complete the quests. Besides the main 
 quest there are several side quests that include bounty hunting, small choirs, herding etc. 
  
  Several weapons are to your disposal including rifles, long range rifles, pistols, a bow, knives, 
 shotguns etc. They become available as you progress. Each has a stat that can be increased by buying 
 add-ons from the shopkeeper. The same goes for your character stats. They are also getting upgraded 
 after each mission and some can be upgraded for money.
  
  The action in the game feels very arcade-like. The enemy just sends hoards of enemies at you and 
 you unload clips after clips into their bodies as your own health meter slowly (or fast depending 
 on the game difficulty) goes down.
  
  The HUD is relatively comfortable to use and so are the controls.
  
  I disliked the collision 
 system in the game. Plenty of times when I saw an enemy behind a rock and shoot him from behind 
 my rock I would end up seeing a huge bullet hole in... the air right in front of me. It hit the 
 rock.. suuuuuure.
  
  The gameplay of Gun strikingly resembles GTA San Andreas. That's what most people compare it to. 
 Card games, quests, several towns and open land in between, secrets, driving (sort of) and shooting 
 around. However compared to GTA this game would be considered very poor. There's just not enough 
 of everything; Not enough quests, not enough NPC's, not enough things to do. All in all the game 
 feels like it was done as a side project in between Tony Hawk Pro Skater games.
  
  One thing I do not agree with is the length of the game. People have been complaining that it's 
 too short. It took me longer than Splinter Cell and SC Pandora Tomorrow all together. It took me 
 longer than Road to Hill 30 alright. I'm still not done with it completely. 
  
  The right thing to say is that it's shorter than its role model: GTA San Andreas (or Morrowind 
 if you like to compare it to that) . 
  
  AI
  
  There's not much to say about it I guess. AI actions feel very heavily scripted in this game. In 
 shootouts they will usually just sit behind cover and occasionally lean out to shoot you. At other 
 times they act like total morons, replacing each other around the same corner for you to shoot 
 them.
  
  The city folk wander around randomly with no particular mission. The only thing you can do to them 
 is grab them... or shoot them...
  
  Visuals
  
  If played on anything less than the maximum graphic settings the game looks appalling. Most textures 
 reminded me the good old Counter Strike, except that Counter Strike was released many years ago. 
 
  
  The game hides the bad textures under different effects, but unless you got your Anti-Aliasing 
 and everything else on full, you will be disappointed. I want more pretty colors!
  
  Some things do look good like the characters and some of the effects. The game is very violent. 
 Heads are being blown off and blood does attempt to splatter realistically during headshots but 
 in itself looks bad. 
  
  The animation has two sides to it as well. The characters articulate correctly but many animations 
 look awkward and many things clip through each other.
  
  Performance
  
  I added this section just for this game. Now unless you have a high end system I must warn you 
 that the game will act horrifically. Even though my system was way above the minimum requirements 
 and I tried playing it on minimum settings, the game acted like a dying person: twitching and falling 
 in and out of conscience. At times it would be slower than my Power Point presentations. The textures 
 were often just disappearing as I found myself hanging in the open air and very confused!
  
  Sound
  
  The game scores high here. The acting is very good. Voices sound like they should 
 sound in the western prairies. Gun sounds are varied and include bullets bouncing off stuff. Wind 
 blows across the land... Music is well chosen and as I noticed changes depending on the situation.
 
  
  Conclusion
  
  Value in this game is not very high. It's not exactly a budget game but at the same time doesn't 
 give too much for it. Gun is an arcade game you can enjoy on a high-end system if you're a western 
 fan. The unfinished feeling will haunt you though throughout the game. I wouldn't expect Activision 
 to release a bad game but this is just too far from perfect. However western games are rare (does 
 anyone remember any cowboy game at all?) so let's applaud Activison anyway.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dinamika
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 20, 2005 6:35 am PT
Review:  19 century GTA. Thats what i call this game. Why GAT .Because you can explore citys, ride with horses9NOT 
 WITH CARS) , shoot innocent people and do crazy stuff!!! Riding with a horse is damn good fun its 
 so easy and you can use it like a weapon kick people faces. Well the story line is very short (THATS 
 NOT GTA) . The game is very gori, the explict language. Some famous actors have givven there voice 
 for this game. There is a bullet-TIme effect and its famous. BUT I REALLY HATE THE STORY LINE ITS 
 SO CRAZY THAT I CANT FIGURE IT OUT
  You Should buy this game if you are a GAT FAN. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malester
Rating: 7.2
Date: Nov 19, 2005 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Gun takes you to the days of the wild west., where the man with the biggest gun is king. I have 
 found this game to be quite enoyable, good storyline excellent game play but unfortunatly the graphics 
 arnt quite up todays standard. Theres plenty of missions to keep yourself occupied when visiting 
 a town. You have your main quests which follow the game story line, and side quests which help 
 you gain extra cash for weapons and upgrades. Some side quests include bounty hunting, protecting 
 the innocent and cattle driving. If your into the old west then this game is for you. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: midn8t
Rating: 6.7
Date: Nov 19, 2005 9:31 am PT
Review:  Game has alot of issues 
  im running a 64 bit windows xp, latest nivida drivers just release week ago, latest sound card 
 drivers realse week ago for the x-fi music, 2 gigs ram, western digital raptor 3600 dual core, 
 two 7800 gtx sli
  
  game gets choppy runs like crape through a funnel after couple levesl run fine but for some reason 
 it glitchs couple of times when enterin the town of empire the whole town just disappears, u can 
 see from one side to othere no town then it just randomly reappaers and preomance gose at a crawl 
 its like playing battle field 2 on a 56k modem on a server thats on a 56k modem.
  
  so thats just kinda of warning to people who have 64 bit os for this game i would say pass it up 
 or borrow it form a friend try it out see if it works alright for u befor u buy it, or better let 
 wait til there is a patch for it.
  but the game is really easy even at hard.
  
  all u harder the level the more people u have to kill at one time, but game is so easy that its 
 not funny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p00pz
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 18, 2005 9:53 pm PT
Review:  This is a game you can rent for 2 days and finish, it is not meant to be immersive, from what I 
 expected after having viewed the trailers and read some previews. The main body of the game is 
 driven by a hollywoodesque storyline akin to Republic Commando. Very wooden acting, rushed story 
 and lack of depth really were the negative points of this game.
  
  However, the western feel was quite refreshing after having played through the many sci fi shooters, 
 nice to have horses instead of tanks, and Indians instead of wookies. After the novelty wears off, 
 in about 40 minutes, you start to realize the game is all sugar coating but missing the cake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: o1z24kid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2005 9:42 pm PT
Review:  I do not know why so many people did not like this game, but I thought this was one of the best 
 3rd person shooters on the pc period. If you like Westerns this game is a must own. The graphics 
 are good, The story line is great and the voice acting is one of the best I have ever heard. They 
 even got the motion of riding a horse down pretty good. The only complant i have is a little chop 
 in frame rate when alot is going on (level loading while fighting 10 people with cannons blazing) 
 and i believe that is my nvidia 5950 (128 mb) and not the game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flipisgod
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 17, 2005 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Gun has a good storyline that offers a nice twist on the standard fare of action games out there. 
 The voice acting is stellar and this makes the game more enjoyable than it might be otherwise.
 
  
  However, the game is just too short. I mean you barely get your feet wet and its over. I put down 
 10 hours or less as time spent because I finished the game in less than 10 hours. Since I pay for 
 my games, this feels like a bit of a ripoff. Particularly when the story is rather good and just 
 as you really get into this - your done.
  
  Also, the graphics are poor. They really are. It feels like you are playing a game from 1999, and 
 it is pretty jarring. The environments are all washed in a dull haze of beige. This is partically 
 to give an old west effect, but it does look a bit cheap.
  
  The game itself and the primary missions are decently laid out and enjoyable. Half way though, 
 I stopped bothering with the pointless side missions.
  
  Some things about this game are good and some are bad - thus it receives and average rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzynutz_usa
Rating: 6.3
Date: Nov 17, 2005 4:55 am PT
Review:  Initially I was excited when I heard about this game. The possibilities could have been lovely. 
 After acutally playing the game I feel like I am trying hard to like it, and actually at this point 
 I feel like I am just trying to get it over with so I can see the ending. 
  
  I really believe that something happened when they were trying to put this game together because 
 it just seems to be missing some things. 
  
  Graphics are pretty subpar in my opinion, the voice acting is really what makes this game stomachable. 
 The side missions seem worthless so gameplay is low, the value of the game is low because you can 
 run through the story in (I have not finished but I read the review here at Gamespot and other users) 
 like 5-10 hours or something. 
  
  Ahh well. Next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zafrod
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 16, 2005 7:47 pm PT
Review:  This has has been very enjoyable. I got caught up in "Deadwood" during the first season, so the 
 timing was right to put myself in the middle of the action. The writing is gritty and engaging, 
 the acting is professional, and the action is fast-paced. There are moments that really shine in 
 the story line, though I'll keep this review spoiler-free.
  
  I have only two real criticisms, and actually they are closely related. First, there just didn't 
 seem to be a lot to do outside of the scripted missions. Scripted side-missions give you a break 
 from the story-line action, but part of what made the GTA games so fun was the ability to just 
 explore and discover. Having more of this might have eliminated my second criticism, and one most 
 have echoed. This game is short. It's great while it lasts, but it doesn't last long enough.
  
  Regardless, it was well worth the money and time. Wild west games are tough to pull off, but 
 Gun does an admirable job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erdefiba
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2005 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Played the darn game all over the long weekend and what a short but very entertaining ride. The 
 charachter is likeable and the story is just top notch. (maybe i just like seeing all the whores 
 die.) Game play is what you would expect and are probably most familiar with. The one thing that 
 irked me a little was that you can't pause some of the cutscenes. I played a whole mission over 
 because i didn't want to miss any of the storyline. Activision has put out some quality games with 
 call of duty 2 and this as well. They may be another of the older game companies making a good 
 effort to put out not just good looking games, but ones that have a little substance asw well. 
 This was just a good all around experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tcharp
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 16, 2005 6:27 am PT
Review:  It's really to bad. The game starts out feeling like it's going to be a great one. The feeling 
 doesn't last long however, and it soon turns into what seems like a pretty run of mill shooter 
 with few inovations.
  
  The graphics seem like a step backward. In a situation where the graphics could be a stunning part 
 of the overall game, GUN once again misses the boat.
  
  The controls on the PC version are easy to learn and pretty much what you might expect. 
  
 
  The overall feeling of the game is that the developers simply didn't take the time or the effort 
 required to make this game as great as it could have or should have been. It leaves me feeling 
 like it just missed being a really great game.
  
  My advice is save your money.
  
  -TC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tv_anonymous
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 15, 2005 4:27 pm PT
Review:  There aren't that many western games now, and the ones that are out aren't that good. That would 
 almost be the case with this game, although its story of revenge was complex but well put together. 
 But sadly, games aren't all about the story, the graphics could use a bit of help. The Music really 
 fits the game but sometimes it just cuts off but the sound effects have no problem. The game is 
 also really short even including the side-quests that turn to be repetitive halfway through the 
 game but turns to be useful to the game. The gameplay is one of the best elements in the game and 
 that doesn't say much, although the game offers very diverse action of action, a bit of stealth 
 and a bit of speed are all mixed into one bunch and yet it gets old real fast.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WWEMAN101
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 14, 2005 8:16 pm PT
Review:  OK, first off, this game if fun throughout the training mission. If you like games that hold your 
 attention for longer than 10 minutes, then get a better game, like Ratchet Deadlocked. Let me explain.
 
  
  First of all, this game uses the third-person camera. However, the way the camera tends to fly 
 around just makes the targeting nearly impossible. Also, the AI is stupid on both sides. Here are 
 some examples.
  
  I just got on the bridge before it was completed. I ran right up to the Indians and used the way-overpowered 
 knife to kill like 20 of them, and even though they could have shot at me with their arrows from 
 a safe distance, they decided to run up to me and try to shoot me with arrows from 2 feet away.
 
  
  Also, I had just met the woman, and she was supposed to be killing the enemies with her gun from 
 above. However, even though I heard shots from her, she died. This would usually be understandable, 
 but there was only 1 enemy left. Yeah, 1 FREAKING ENEMY!
  
  The Graphics are another downpoint. Except for the main characters (who look sub-par anyway) all 
 of the characters look like they were made on the N64.
  
  The sound is decent. The people scream when they died, and the gunshots sound ok. But the voiceovers, 
 when I can hear them, are horrible.
  
  Oh yes, the gameplay. This game is either WAY TOO EASY or NEARLY IMPOSSIBLE. And we arent talking 
 about Devil May Cry Hard, that was enjoyable. This game was just way too frustrating. 
  
  This game has no reaply value, just because you wont be able to finish it once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jer1691
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 14, 2005 8:11 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game i sat down from beginning to end and completed 100%. Im a very picky gamer 
 so It was that good! 
  
  -Technical Issues-
  First off i played the PC version and i seemed to have alot of buggy graphics on my 6800gt. Lots 
 of times when im riding fast through the land it will get very jidderey and the lanscape ahead 
 of me will completely dissapear into nothingness. This happened alot throughout the game as full 
 settings when riding fast. I think its a problem with streaming the lanscape fast enough to ride 
 through it. But its very bothersome. Other than that the game ran very smooth at 60 frames solid, 
 but those weird times it regularly went crazy and textures dissapeared, and whole models gone and 
 went down to 2 fps wasnt fun.
  
  -Gameplay-
  I really like its open ended gameplay (GTA Style) that doesnt rush you in anyway throughout the 
 game, making it so you can take your time and mosey around the landscape. The story is good for 
 a video game at least and was enough to keep me drawn in the whole time. The only problem is that 
 the story itself is very short. I beat the game in one sitting for about 8 hours, but then the 
 next few days were dedicated to all the side missions (that are almost as good or even better than 
 parts of the story line.) This game seems to have it all though, from texas hold'm, to shootouts 
 and showdowns in town, you ride for the pony express, and also rid towns as a deputy. If you like 
 hunting, riding horses, shooting indians and lots of revenge then youll love GUN.
  
  8.5 out of 10 for me, finally a game that really impressed me in the last couple months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rick2438
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 14, 2005 2:30 pm PT
Review:  GUN: 
  This is a fast paced game that gets right into the action. I didn't have the controller in my hands 
 good before I found myself trying to shoot my way off of a steam boat. This game could have been 
 twice as fun if you had more character development or had a choice to be good or bad. I often found 
 myself just riding around the country side trying to catch my breath before the next big shoot 
 out. All-in-all this is a good game that could have been better. The gun play and the riding physics 
 are excellent , but the rushed story takes away from the "Replay Value" . 
  
  - The Monster 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nodham
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 14, 2005 5:49 am PT
Review:  Its been a long time since a western game came along and although GUN isnt the greatest 
 ever, it can more than hold its own against the competition. Right from the start, the silly training 
 missions should give you an idea about what to expect and if you go in expecting anything else 
 you may well be disappointed. The first few missions have our hero making lead paperweights out 
 of any animal he sees, before learning how to trample buffalo. And to make sure you understand, 
 make sure you trample several!
  After the hectic beginning the game settles more into a more free-roaming type of world. Side-quests 
 are unlocked by following the storyline and youll never have any problems telling the two 
 apart, as even the map tells you where to go to move the story along, if youve run out of 
 things to do. And run out you probably will, as there are only a few places that spawn 
 quests when unlocked. Fortunately a lot of these are fun to do, despite being variations on go 
 here, kill this (or dont!) . Considering the whole game consists of killing things, 
 they dont seem out of place. Some side quests like herding cattle, hunting animals or playing 
 poker offer a nice change of pace and fit very well into the Western theme. There isnt much 
 in this game that youd expect in the West and cant do, except perhaps some hot 
 coffee action at the brothels...
  The environment is what really brings this game to life, though. The game world is quite small 
 but packed with varying scenery, including forts, rivers, waterfalls, a lake and dusty old cabins. 
 Spurring your horse to near-death across the plains in order to make that medicine delivery in 
 time is thrilling enough, but so are the little things like the clop clop of it slowing down or 
 its neigh and majestic leap over a crevice. 
  On the other hand, seeing enemies (and the player) running around with burning arrows sticking 
 out of their limbs is less thrilling, but its just a game. 
  Control is responsive and manageable, although Im led to believe certain reviewers didnt 
 take the time to adjust the mouse sensitivity before starting, as mine was set much too high to 
 be of any use.
  The special quick-draw is a first-person bullet-time thats useful for quickly 
 exterminating enemies and will even help you lock on to them. More than a gimmick, this handy tool 
 will probably help you avoid many near-death situations, at least until you receive better weapons 
 from boss battles. Speaking of near-death, the screen also slows down and changes slightly when 
 your health is low, similarly to the Hitman series.
  The main problem with GUN is its empty and short. A good estimate for game time is around 
 10 hours, perhaps a little more on higher difficulties, and thats including all the side-quests. 
 Completing the game at 100% will give you some bonus items but unfortunately, there isnt 
 anywhere to really use them, apart from stirring up a posse by causing some ruckus in town. It 
 would have been nice to play the game from the beginning with your special weapons, for example, 
 or get some new gameplay modes.
  
  Were GUN not so short it would be easier to recommend it. Its still a fun, violent, blast, 
 but dont plan on spending more than a few evenings of play with it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Conny_S
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 13, 2005 4:58 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand why gamespot gave this game such a bad score. I say the game is amazing. Its 
 a real western feeling, the animals, the sky, the enviroment, the sounds, the mine digging, everything 
 is western. I just finished the game and i easy give it 9.2 out of 10. The beginning of the game 
 gave me a very good impression. Ned looked a bit like Zeb, and that was good. The game has a really 
 good story. The nature and landscapes of the game is fantastic. The horses are very fun to ride, 
 and their way to run and live ( even their way to die) are very nice and realistic. The sound of 
 the horses are also very good. When the horse run, you can here those lovely footsteps. There is 
 so many little things about this game that makes it so good. The sounds are perfect, when you for 
 example drink whiskey, when you walk, when you reload your gun and spin the wheel etc etc. The 
 music is also very good. The music is like the preserve on the rice pudding. A thing that makes 
 you like the game even more. Even if the story is short, its an experience you never forget. The 
 game does not end when the story has ended, and that is even better. You are free. Thats by the 
 way one more good thing with the game, the freedom. Its a bit like Grand Theft Auto when it comes 
 the the storyline, and thats good. Grand Theft Auto: Western is (was) a title i always wanted, 
 and now it has come. The graphics is really good and fits like a peir of boots. I say a game should 
 be a game, it is good when the graphic stays at a colourful and not to realistic experince. A game 
 is a game because its not reality. The graphics is really good compared to the landscape. I dont 
 want some dirt pixelshading world in a western game. The only bad thing i can say for now is the 
 loading engine, the game can freeze sometimes when you comes near a city or something. But thats 
 of course depends on your computer. 
  
  9.2/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahetulla
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 13, 2005 7:27 am PT
Review:  The graphics were great! The story was great! The action and gameplay rocked!!! Loved the blood 
 and guts. Great slow-mo shootouts. The side missions were a bit cumbersome with the long horse 
 rides to kill one guy in 2 secs, for $10 bucks. Some missions seemed repetative. I would have liked 
 a few more train robberies and bank shootouts though. At least they threw in some whores and partial 
 nudity. As well the sound sometimes was out of sink when characters talked. Nothing a patch couldn't 
 fix. Just as much fun as Mafia though!
  Great shoot outs! It was entertaining and worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taopix
Rating: 5.7
Date: Nov 12, 2005 6:33 pm PT
Review:  this game is a very boring one. if you don't like western-themed games, this game would make you 
 hate it. the guns felt very weak and the gun handling is poor, the graphics is not that good. but 
 the enemy animate quite nicely when shot and the cutscenes are quite cool. enemy A. I. is not so 
 bad either. 
  this game do feel rushed, it feels like incomplete and the developers could've put more content 
 and polish in it to make it more appealing and fun. this game's coming to xbox360 right?! ooo better 
 graphics won't make this game better, because the game play is very boring. i would never recommend 
 this game to anybody, but if you want a good 3rd person shooter, look else where. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuski
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 12, 2005 1:13 pm PT
Review:  It seems like a lot of people are just casting this game off for no apparent reason, but through 
 the bad comments (and a few good) Ive taken the time over the past two days to immense myself 
 in Gun.
  
  Now i'm no huge fan boy of westerns but I've always had a craving for some gun slinging action 
 and this game does deliver.
  
  The story starts off with you, Colt and your father Ned. Hunters by trade you two are very adept 
 to the outdoors and carry trustworthy arms. As the story unfolds the death of your father occurs 
 and so starts the kick ass journey Colt goes on.
  
  From the get go its obvious this game has a very Grand Theft Auto feel to it of freedom with missions 
 from your wanted posters to the deputy. In any order you can do these missions to boost your skills 
 in gunning, melee and many other personal traits. Also you can earn money on these missions which 
 then lead to the purchasing of upgrades for your weaponry.
  
  The graphics are rather decent for the open range (pun-ish) style the game adopts of one huge area 
 that you can explore whenever you want - just like GTA. The voice acting is amazing and you do 
 sound like a bad ass cowboy throughout the entire game.
  
  The only downsides I can note are as follows:
  
  1. Auto aim. Basically if your crosshair is 
 anywhere near an enemy the computer will adjust your aim to be near enough perfect on the guys 
 chest.
  
  2. The 'hitboxes' on the enemies are off and it becomes very easy to sometimes not aim directly 
 on the enemy yet still hit them.
  
  3. The area the game is based is very small.
  
  4. There seems to be no flow and 'nature' to the environment, yes theres birds flying but the 
 buffalo dont move from a single spot.
  
  Now although these things could dampen the greatness this game could achieve I really dont see 
 them as bad points but a 'step in the right direction' for the series, if there is to be one. What 
 I mean is that with the small zone and the game mechanics I could see a sequel being very successful 
 if the game area was large with more than just the towns of Empire and Dodge, better behaviors 
 from wild animals and the removal of the auto aim adjust.
  
  To conclude this review, I would say its very worth a rental or playing it at a friends house 
 to see if you like it before thinking of forking over your money. The feel to the game is great 
 and the voice acting and music really brings the West to life. If a sequel was to be made and the 
 little 'annoyance' were to be corrected then my rating would be around the 9.9 mark!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anahita3000
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 12, 2005 7:17 am PT
Review:  this game, you will have a lot of fun playing. and also graphics are good. this one is not that hard, i 
 like its story.
  This is also one of the few games around today without a camera issue. The design of the Charachter 
 is done so well and so detailed. the voice of the charachter and the grudge in him is going so 
 well with the speed of the enemies but definitely not enough blood is spilled.. hehehe
  
  Control: the only thing that bothered me in the Pc version was moving him around.. to be honest i 
 ,m not able to move this very guy smothly.
  
  well, here you go. in a nut shell, if you have a good PC or a PS2, you need this game in your collection. 
 its that simple
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: prophetng2
Rating: 1.9
Date: Nov 11, 2005 9:54 pm PT
Review:  For the past couple of months I have been eagerly anticipating the arrival of this game. I am huge 
 fan of westerns and in a game market recognizably vacant of this type of genre, "GUN" was a warm 
 spot on the horizon. Needless to say after playing "GUN", im back to waiting for the next best 
 thing. It would take too much time to mention all the problems with this game, the graphics, sound, 
 repetive gameplay, to list here. With free roaming games like the Eldar Scrolls series and the 
 Zelda series able to accomplish so much with a made up world, how come the idea about the west 
 can not be realized in the gaming world. If their was one time in the history of the world when 
 there was a a new world waiting to be discovered by ordinary citizens, it was the wild west. I 
 beat GUN in a couple of hours and after that I cursed at all the aspects in this game. If you like 
 Westerns then give it a shot. If you have been wating for a game to instill the nature of the wild 
 west in the player this is not it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norbnormus
Rating: 4.2
Date: Nov 11, 2005 9:40 pm PT
Review:  If this game was GTA it would rock, but its not. The gameplay is console and the gfx is 2002/3. 
 Character animation in-game is sloppy and WAY under todays standards except the horse riding. The 
 fighting is like you against 1000 big evil dudes with guns that dont do much damage to you. There 
 is no challenge in the fight except that the enemy comes in unrealistic numbers every time. And 
 they rush you all the time. So as long as you have a loaded gun. A headshot will stop everything. 
 No need to move so much. The story is nice and the motion-capture is very good. But the gameplay 
 is just NOT good. Its a western splat parody game with clumsy movements. Its nice and gory. If 
 you expect a realistic game like a little more tactical realistic fighting then this is NOT it. 
 Just "hack and slas" style. If you can cope with the stupid but aggressive AI good for you, i just 
 cant give this game thumbs up. The game itself could be very very good, but the physics and the 
 AI, animation, fighting and the fact that this is a console game just got me down. I would expect 
 more from a hyiped game like this... Fix the AI, GFX and animation and make it a PC game that uses 
 PC resources then this game will get a 9.9 from me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medalian1
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 11, 2005 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Ok so I installed the three (yes 3) CDs to play this game. Right off the bat the audio is way slow, 
 like slow motion slow. This alone is enough to drive me batty and skip all the scenes. The gameplay 
 really isnt' that good. I probably played for 30 minutes before I uninstalled it. If I had paid 
 for it, I'd be p*ssed. So instead I'm warning you not to waste your money.
  
  I didn't like the controls. Probably would've liked it as a first person shooter.
  
  Ok now 
 I have to include more words cause it won't submit my review. lalala lalala lalala how about now? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mista_F
Rating: 4.8
Date: Nov 11, 2005 12:27 pm PT
Review:  There is something faintly reminescent about Gun and I cant think what. Ah yes I can its Turok 
 and a 3dfx voodoo 1 card. I was so disappointed with this game that I gave up after the second 
 storyline. Everything about it is dated and amature. It looks like its all been rushed and the 
 slow motion thing has just been pinched from max payne and f. e. a. r. Its a real shame because the 
 whole game genre could be a winner. The game character seem very badly modelled even when maxing 
 out the graphic options. The health and weapon bars seem like a kids drawing.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebtr
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 11, 2005 11:30 am PT
Review:  This is an entertaining game, worthy of purchase. The story line is a bit rushed as the video review 
 reported and you do find yourself wanting longer
  gameplay in the different worlds. Overall I was surprised and delighted at 
  the similarities 
 to DEADWOOD and voice overs by Kris Kristofferson and Ron Pearlman were superb. Riding the horse 
 was very cool but it took a while toget the controls down. I used the joystick when on horseback 
 and switched back to the mouse for the rest of the gameplay and for me, this seemed to be easier. My 
 compliments to NEVERSOFT & staff for a job well done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terrex72
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 11, 2005 9:10 am PT
Review:  Lets get this right, this could have been a great game, and it would have been if it was released 
 fifteen years ago, But gamers today expect so much more.
  
  I finished the game in under seven hours and yes thats with most of the side missions, and i take 
 my time in missions.
  
  Reading the previews you expect a gta clone in the wild west, But what you get is two small towns 
 with very little to do in them and a lot of wild west nothingness.
  
  Apart from the very quick limited main quests the side missions mainly consist of helping about 
 4 other people doing a few missions each,
  like the sheriff and a rancher.
  
  The idea of the game is great, and while it is fun while it lasts with some great ideas, This falls 
 flat and feels rushed.
  
  Worth renting for a quick thrill but leaves you thinking what could have been.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kddude7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2005 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Where to start.. when i first looked at the previews i thought this was going to be the best release 
 game for the 360, but since i wasnt getting one i got it for the pc. The day it came out i rushed 
 to the store and picked up my preorderd copy. I installed it (3 disks, the sign of a short game) . 
 I tried to start playing and i noticed the good graphics and the nice gameplay. 
  
  When i first got into town and started really playing i zoomed in with the rifle and noticed that 
 the game just makes the rifle look bigger, not zooming in. The rifle started to go through the 
 rock iwas hiding behind lol. i tried leaning and i just slid sideways, not leaned. I started using 
 the quickdraw feature and was INSTATNLY addicted. This feature was probably one of the best features 
 in the game, its so fun that when the quickdraw bar is all the way down im sad. If you are a css 
 fan or games like that, headshots are no problem. The sniper really isnt that good of a sniper, 
 the aiming with it is hard to navigate around with.
  
  The graphics are ok and the voice acting is great. IT flows perfectly with the movement of the 
 characters mouths. The controls are easy and the horse play is good too.
  
  This game is overall a pretty good game, especially because its only 40 dollars. I would recomend 
 this game to people who like western games and some fun shooting.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: triker66
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 10, 2005 12:36 pm PT
Review:  Just great to have a Western Shooter. I would have preferred 1st person and maybe the unreal engine 
 or Half Life style. I'm a renactor of the old west and just a GUN nut. The way the blood and guts 
 action gives you that carnal feeling and somewhat realism. I only remember one other western shooter 
 and that was so long ago I can't rember the title. The 3rd person aspect does look good as far 
 as a better field of view to work your surroundings. I love the gore!!! blowin people up and scalping 
 cmon can't do that today. I dunno about you guys but when I have been stressed all day this is 
 great for stress relief. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyber_punk667
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 10, 2005 11:47 am PT
Review:  First off the Bad, the REALLY REALLY Bad thing about this game is the camera . Now I know you heard 
 it all before but this games camera is so loose feeling that I guarantee you will find yourself 
 headed back from which you come, often, very very often. Over all the graphics are nice but it 
 seems with the advanced graphics setting on high the normal mapping of the characters looks "out 
 of tune" but nothing dramatic not like the camera work. The sounds are the best thing in this game, 
 terrific voice acting, sound effects all help to put you in the middle of the west. 
  
  So to wrap it up nice graphics, great sounds, terrible camera work. What I don't understand is 
 if Neversoft put so much time in the sound and graphics why not wait a week and fix the camera 
 as i'm sure there are some of us that would like one good western game. This one is close but no 
 cigar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foehammer111
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 10, 2005 8:59 am PT
Review:  Since I'm a western movie fan, I got caught up in the hype of Gun. Much like last year's Red Dead 
 Revolver, Gun is a good game but could have been a lot better. The main thing it suffers from is 
 being so short. You can easily beat this game in 10 hours. Maybe longer if you take your time and 
 do all the side missions. That's about average for the genre, but doesn't make it feel like the 
 "epic" game it was made out to be.
  
  Gameplay
  Aside from it being short, the gameplay is otherwise great. It's a lot of fun to get into huge 
 gun fights with outlaws, and the story missions have a lot of variety. The side missions are fun 
 too, but tend to get old since they have the same basic goal from one to the next. The controls 
 work well, and the bullet-time style quickdraw mode is a blast to use.
  
  Graphics
  The visuals are about par for the PS2 and Xbox versions, but a little disappointing on the PC. 
 The environments look amazing, and help draw you into the game. But the character textures are 
 a little on the low rez side, and the shading could be a lot better. Character animations are great, 
 though. And I can't help but smile when I blast an outlaw to pieces.
  
  Sound
  The sound is perhaps one of Gun's best features. Great surround sound, and all the guns have a 
 nice thump to them. Voice acting is top quality, and further helps to draw you into the story. 
 Music has a very nice epic feel to it, without being cheesy like the old Spagetti westerns.
  
  Value
  Aside from it being short, there's a lot to like here. The story moves a bit too fast, 
 and they could have devoted entire chapters to missons that are over in a few minutes. But the 
 gunplay and horse riding is very entertaining. More missions in general would have been nice.
 
  
  Gun does have some minor flaws, but if you can look past them I think you'll find a game that's 
 worth the $35 for the PC version. With a little more content, Gun could have been one of the best 
 games of the year. As it stands, it's a good shooter with a great setting. It opens a lot of new 
 doors for an even better sequel, and also shows that there is a market for old west themed games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cthulhu34
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 9, 2005 10:56 pm PT
Review:  Pretty much after trying a majority of games even with a decent rating and review. I don't recall 
 the last Wild West game aside from Lucas Arts "Outlaws" and Dead Man's Hand" that were average 
 at best since they just got the game marketed but didn't bother adding any content. Who doesn't 
 get tired of seeing and hearing "Yep that is what we need is another WW2 shooter or Clancy games 
 where you sneak around, how about something with a cool story and alot of fun to play. After grabbing 
 GUN this is exactly what you get. The only reason I never gave a TEN/TEN is because this game isn't 
 multiplayer. Console or PC, i am still waiting for a coop multiplayer to be made.
  SWAT 4 with a buddy is a blast but how about something where you both do the campaign together 
 and do everything multiplayer against or with each other, after all we are the ones playing the 
 game, hell i'll even buy it:} 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
