-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Gunlok
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/strategy/gunlok/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 22, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 6.9, 2 Review (s)
User Score: 6.3, 42 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Virgin Interactive
Developer: Rebellion
Genre: Strategy
Date:     Apr 30, 2001
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Some of the gameplay concepts are solid and even fairly entertaining, but since they never quite 
 gel, Gunlok is ultimately less than the sum of its parts. 

  Where most real-time strategy games put you in command of sizable armies, Gunlok narrows the focus 
 to one small squad of distinct characters. Developed by Rebellion, best known for its creepy 1999 
 shooter, Aliens vs. Predator, Gunlok also features elements from role-playing games and shooters, 
 such as individual inventories and an occasional first-person viewpoint. Gunlok's postapocalyptic 
 potboiler of a story owes more than a little to the  Terminator  movies. Toward the end of the 
 21st century, humanity grows almost totally dependent on machines to do its work. Satisfied with 
 the leisure they gain, humans finally turn complete control over to the machines, which quickly 
 launch wars amongst themselves and against humanity. Neutron bombs launched from orbital platforms 
 nearly decimate Earth and its inhabitants, leaving just a few survivors, including the game's hero, 
 Gunlok. He's part of an elite Special Forces unit that wears modular body armor powered by energy 
 from Earth's core.           Some strategy involves properly equipping your squad.    

  While the game's intro plays up the idea of Gunlok as a lone hero, you'll actually control both 
 him and a number of his sentient robot comrades at the same time. Each character has its own special 
 abilities, and using them in concert is the key to passing the game's levels. Hark, for instance, 
 is small, speedy, and useful for luring the enemy robots into ambushes. Gunlok has the best overall 
 combat skills, Elint can interface with electronic devices and mines to deactivate them, the lumbering 
 Frend provides cover fire with heavy weapons, and so forth.   

  The single-player missions begin with short briefings explaining your goals, but the briefings 
 don't always explain why you're pursuing them. Instead of enticing and emotionally charged goals, 
 you get little sense of personal involvement, and the threadbare, clichd story is often a 
 muddled mess. For instance, the first mission should ideally set the stage and draw you into the 
 story and action in a dramatic fashion. Instead, it tells you to locate a sewer entrance to a recycling 
 plant. Why? Apparently just because it's associated with "the Corporation," the game's faceless, 
 barely explained enemy. Amateurish cutscenes only make matters worse.   

  Instead of looting the stereotypical crates found in so many action games, you'll root through 
 countless junk piles for weapons, ammunition, and other upgrades for your characters. The work 
 is hardly glamorous and heroic. As you shut down generators that run laser gates or search through 
 confusing, labyrinthine tunnels for futuristic weapons, you'll encounter a variety of insectlike 
 robots. Reminiscent of Metal Gear Solid, the robots project a visible cone representing their line 
 of sight, as well as circles showing their hearing radius. Since ammunition isn't overly abundant, 
 you'll often have to use stealth techniques like hiding in the aforementioned junk piles or shallow 
 water, setting audio decoys, or detonating remote mines to evade the robots or destroy them from 
 afar.   

  While the game isn't really about running and gunning, you do get to employ a decent variety of 
 weapons. Plasma, laser, and heavy projectile weapons have different firing rates and employ varied 
 ammo, like guided or flare rounds. You also get to play with a raft of other gadgets: scanners, 
 mine detectors, shield generators, and other high-tech toys let you create different strategies. 
 Yet, while you can wield many weapons, the combat is dull. Your characters and the enemy robots 
 essentially play laser ping-pong, exchanging rounds until someone dies. There's no real sense of 
 tension or excitement.   

  The smooth interface lets you control Gunlok and his teammates through both a graphic display and 
 keyboard shortcuts. Whenever you right-click a character, the control display appears in the form 
 of a wheel with command icons and explanatory text. From the wheel, you can assign attack stances, 
 set group formations, queue orders while paused, and visit the upgrade screen that lets you equip 
 different items and exchange them between characters. Like the command wheel, the upgrade display 
 is fairly intuitive and easily learned, but not particularly attractive.           The various 
 gameplay elements don't all quite fit together.    

  In fact, the bland graphics really hurt the game. There are some nice dynamic lighting effects 
 from weapon blasts and explosions, and the character animations are decent. The character designs 
 just aren't memorable, though, and too many grim and grubby areas in the impossibly dark levels 
 don't inspire any excitement. Gutted industrial zones get tiring in a hurry and are a science-fiction 
 visual clich. The camera system is easy to learn but leaves something to be desired in practice. 
 You can zoom and pan, but you can never quite lower the camera far enough to get the best view 
 for certain situations. You're pretty much stuck with either an overhead or isometric perspective. 
   

  You do get to switch to a first-person "recon" mode, which lets you observe enemies from afar, 
 as if through high-tech binoculars. Oddly, this mode uses different zoom keys from the standard 
 ones used in other modes, which is an awkward design decision. Plus, the mode is primarily used 
 to fire just one weapon, which inexplicably injures the character that fires it. That's hardly 
 the ideal way to balance a weapon's power.   

  Like the graphics, the music and sound don't really add much to the game, either. They're certainly 
 competent, but they never grab you. That, unfortunately, is one of the biggest problems with Gunlok. 
 The settings and characters are just too stale, confused, or forgettable. The other major problem 
 is that Gunlok is a hodgepodge of design ideas in search of a truly coherent, exciting game. Some 
 of the gameplay concepts are solid and even fairly entertaining, but since they never quite gel, 
 Gunlok is ultimately less than the sum of its parts.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: grantcorp
Rating: 7.2
Date: Apr 30, 2006 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Gunlok plays very much like Syndicate Wars or Abomination, although slightly more focused on puzzles 
 in the form of mazes and switches to negotiate rather than just choosing a direct path of your 
 liking and proceed to smack down your enemy. Some characters have unique abilities needed to progress, 
 meaning this is a "keep your full squad alive at all times" type of game.
  
  The story is a very hammy recycled Terminator-clone with Gunlok, the hero of the game, a hopelessly 
 arrogant prick. You are running around pulling switches and opening doors on the backyard of the 
 faceless "Corporation" not really knowing why, all the while avoiding the swift death offered at 
 the feet of its combat drones, robots and mechs. At least the interface is very competent, and 
 camera control is simple enough too.
  
  Still, the stealth aspects of this game were completely lost on me. I never really got a feel for 
 how to efficiently stalk and hide from the marauding robots and instead played very aggressively 
 which soon led to the problem of a limited ammunition supply. Although survival action can be really 
 exciting in its own right, I feel that this is a game about robots with cool weaponry, more specifically 
 a game about blowing up robots with cool weaponry, and I don't want to progress through levels 
 by hiding in various stacks of scrap. Fortunately there's always cheats for stocking up on ammo... 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
