-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Gunman Chronicles
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/gunmanchronicles/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec  1, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.8
Critic Score: 7.0, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 281 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Rewolf Software
Genre: Action
Date:     Nov 19, 2000 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Though it's worth considering that this game was essentially developed by a group of amateur designers, 
 there are many first-person shooters available that are much more worthwhile. 

 Gunman Chronicles is a unique game in that it wasn't designed by a traditional development team, 
 but by a group of individuals working out of their homes in North America and Europe. Most of the 
 team members have used commonplace tools such as chat programs and FTP software to coordinate the 
 production of this first-person shooter - interestingly enough, most of them have never met each 
 other in person. Gunman Chronicles was originally slated to be a straightforward single-player-focused 
 user-created mod for Quake II, but it gradually evolved into a total conversion of Valve's popular 
 Half-Life. Partway through its development cycle, Gunman Chronicles caught the eye of Sierra, which 
 decided to publish the game through traditional retail channels. Gunman Chronicles isn't the first 
 stand-alone Half-Life mod to be formally released by Sierra - Counter-Strike, an extremely popular 
 multiplayer mod, was also published as part of the company's recent trend of cultivating independent 
 talent into success stories at the retail store. Unfortunately, Gunman Chronicles lacks the polish 
 and the lasting value of Counter-Strike, not to mention many other recent first-person shooters. 
   

  In Gunman Chronicles, you play the role of Major Archer, an interplanetary soldier whose squad 
 of gunmen battle deadly creatures called Xenomes. One time, the gunmen were forced to retreat in 
 the face of the creatures' overwhelming strength. Archer escaped with his life, but others on his 
 team, including the general (his superior) , weren't as lucky. Xenome activity has since been rampant, 
 and Archer has been sent off to investigate a mysterious distress call from a remote planet thought 
 to be under attack by these ravenous creatures. Upon landing on this planet, it becomes clear that 
 the distress call was nothing more than a ruse to lure Archer and the gunmen into an ambush. But 
 Archer survives again and learns that this elaborate setup was orchestrated by none other than 
 the general himself, who mysteriously survived the encounter with the Xenomes five years earlier 
 and felt betrayed by Archer and the gunmen's retreat. The general has since been researching the 
 Xenomes' power and has been using them to instigate these unprovoked infestations of planets inhabited 
 by humans. Archer is tasked with the duty of stopping the general's scheme and, of course, escaping 
 with his own life.   

  The similarities between Half-Life and Gunman Chronicles don't stop with the premise of an alien 
 infestation. In fact, the game's similarity to Half-Life is almost blatant from the beginning. 
 You're taken through a tram ride of a military complex built around a massive asteroid as soon 
 as you start the game - an obvious testament to Valve's classic shooter. Later on in the game, 
 you'll even be forced to shoot down a helicopter with a rocket launcher of sorts. Gunman Chronicles 
 does attempt to distance itself from Half-Life by offering certain gameplay conventions that weren't 
 available in Valve's game, including customizable weapons and controllable vehicles. In addition, 
 the game's futuristic Wild West setting and Civil War-type character models give it a rather unique 
 look and style. Regardless, people who have played Half-Life, or any recent first-person shooter 
 for that matter, will be able to instantly acclimate themselves to the gameplay in Gunman Chronicles. 
 You progress through a wide number of levels scattered across four distinct worlds. As in Half-Life, 
 you can travel back and forth between the levels, and you will sometimes have to backtrack to earlier 
 areas. The squad tactics of the enemy characters is another aspect borrowed from Half-Life, although 
 Gunman Chronicle's enemies aren't nearly as clever as the deadly marines from the original game. 
 When engaged in a firefight, most of the time the enemies will simply stand still until they are 
 killed. Occasionally, they'll run back and forth between two points in some form of attempt to 
 either get cover or a clearer shot at you. Nonhuman enemies are even worse - they will often simply 
 charge you.   

  In spite of its similarities to Half-Life, the game is by no means a clone, nor does it attempt 
 to be so. Unfortunately for Gunman Chronicles, the elements that are supposed to separate it from 
 other shooters are poorly executed. The game gives you the ability to customize the use of all 
 of its eight weapons. For example, the multiple unit launch engine - or M. U. L. E., the game's rocket 
 launcher - has 11 different characteristics that can be fiddled with a number of ways. You can 
 adjust the type of payload, time of detonation, flight path, and method of targeting.    

 Tweaking the weapon modes seems like a novelty at first, but it quickly becomes a nuisance. You'll 
 realize that you're spending way too much time toggling back and forth between settings in order 
 to find the best combination for dispatching an enemy. Eventually, you'll ignore this feature altogether 
 and just stick to each weapon's default setting. It would have made much more sense to simply offer 
 a standard and alternate mode of fire for each weapon. Even if these wild choices were reduced 
 by half, the arsenal would still remain quite manageable. But as it stands, the weapons system 
 in Gunman Chronicles is just frustrating.   

  The other main feature of the game, the ability to drive vehicles, doesn't get exploited to its 
 full potential. As it is, you'll get to drive just one vehicle throughout Gunman Chronicles: an 
 invincible tank with a powerful gun. Unfortunately, you're rarely given the opportunity to use 
 this machine's massive firepower, as the only enemies you face during the tank sequence are standard 
 foot soldiers, which can quickly be dispatched with the vehicle's machine gun. Also, these tank 
 missions are set up in a manner that forces you to constantly leave the tank so that you can solve 
 a series of puzzles necessary to clear impassable debris from its path. These puzzles are easy 
 to solve, and they involve fighting your way to a switch or lever. In fact, save for the last handful 
 of levels, the entire game is relatively easy, and it'll take you no longer than 15 hours or so 
 to go through it from start to finish.   

  Gunman Chronicles' multiplayer option doesn't do much to compensate for the lack of a significant 
 single-player campaign. While finding a server using the game's integrated matchmaking utility 
 is a breeze, the only multiplayer game modes available are deathmatch and team deathmatch, which 
 isn't much when you consider the huge variety of free multiplayer mods available for Half-Life, 
 such as Counter-Strike and Firearms.   

  The graphics in Gunman Chronicles use the aging Half-Life engine, which is now more than two years 
 old. Some of the enemy models, especially larger ones such as the alpha species and the brontosaurus, 
 are quite impressive, and they boast not only a relatively high number of polygons, but also some 
 of the cleanest textures you'll find in any Half-Life mod. The level design varies significantly 
 across the four distinct areas in Gunman Chronicles, which makes it believable that you're actually 
 moving from planet to planet. Unfortunately, most of the levels are lit with a garish amount of 
 red, green, and blue lighting, which ruins what's an otherwise aesthetically pleasing game. Also, 
 in the outdoor levels, the textures used for the sky are of very low quality and resolution - they 
 aren't convincing at all.   

  The game's sound effects are as mediocre as the rest of Gunman Chronicles. Most of the shrieks 
 and yells of the aliens sound believable enough, as do a few of the game's weapons. However, there's 
 little variety in the different sound effects, and, as a result, they tend to get repetitive relatively 
 quickly. Additionally, a lot of the ambient sound effects in Gunman Chronicles sound just like 
 those in Half-Life, and the game's voice acting seems a bit timid and muffled compared with the 
 rest of the game's audio. Gunman Chronicles lacks any music, save for a techno number that plays 
 while the end credits roll.   

  While Gunman Chronicles introduces some new gameplay conventions - such as the customizable weapons 
 and controllable vehicle - that weren't attempted by the original Half-Life, it's nothing that 
 prior user-created mods like Chemical Existence haven't done before. And even though it's worth 
 considering that this game was essentially developed by a group of amateur designers, it still 
 sells for the same money that you'd pay for anything else, and there are many first-person shooters 
 available that are much more worthwhile. In fact, there are user-created mods like Neil Manke's 
 They Hunger series, which are just as good as, if not better than, Gunman Chronicles - and they 
 can be downloaded entirely for free. Gunman Chronicles is certainly a solid effort by its developers, 
 and large publishers should continue to encourage this grassroots movement among upstart development 
 teams so that they can create similar near-professional quality games - but this one should have 
 been kept as a free download.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: unacomn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Gunman Chronicles I was simply amazed. No other game I had ever played until 
 then or have played since then had so much detail in the weapons department. The only thing I consider 
 poor about the game is it's length, at six hours it's not very long, but considering it was made 
 by enthusiasts not profesionals I think it's a testament to their talent. Although, these days 
 a six hour game has become almost standard, and I'm talking about games backed by serious money. 
 
  In short, the game is great, you won't find another game with such a high degree of weapon customization, 
 the Chem Gun alone will offer you hours of fun. I just wish a Gunman Chronicles 2 would one day 
 pop up, hopefully using the Source Engine. Until then I recomment do all fans of the first person 
 shoote gender to play this game it's a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pashitos
Rating: 6.2
Date: Sep 23, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is not very good, but I will always remember it 'cause of one single moment. I must say, 
 I am writing this 4 years after actually playing the game and I still remember one moment vividly.
 
  
  OK, I can make some mistakes while retelling, but I don't have a perfect memory, you must understand 
 that.
  
  So, there is a base, which is controlled by some crazy computer and it can manipulate some doors 
 and stuff, which is totally understandable. And at one point you come to a closed door and computer 
 starts giving you a long speech in a calm computer voice. It is telling something about how cool 
 it is and so on, but at the end of the speech, computer screams VERY LOUDLY ... and now you die!!! 
 . The door opens at the same time and a huge scary monster jumps at you. My pants were almost wet.
 
  
  In other words, I don't regret playing the game only because of the situation described above. 
 If a game gives you any emotions except antipath&amp;#1085;, it is easily worth the time and money 
 spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flinx1000
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 5, 2005 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Figuring on a Half Life-like experience, I plugged this game in and was consequently disappointed 
 (although the likelihood of anything being as far beyond what is currently available as Half Life 
 was when it came out is unlikely anytime soon) .
  A somewhat predictable storyline and lack of solution-solving situations make this game fun but 
 unimaginative. I found it quite easy to blow through the entire game in just a few hours on the 
 difficult setting, dying a few times, sure, but not on the scale of HL the first time. The only 
 highlight of the game is the female computer character, with a knockout cyborg bod (ala Sorayama's 
 "Gynoids") and a voice that could bend nails, this character shows up kind of late in the game 
 but takes on the role of partner in crime and turns all the robots that were once chasing you about 
 against the biologics that were also chasing you about (the voice is recognizable, but I don't 
 know her name of the top of my head) .
  Overall, easy and unimaginative, a good romp but definitely bargain bin fodder. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thewilyranger
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 22, 2005 2:45 pm PT
Review:  When I first read about this game I thought is was going to be a futuristic western which would 
 be awesome plus it was powered by the Half-Life engine how could it go wrong? The game is not terrible 
 but it does look like a game that could have been great if they had put more time into. I do not 
 like the story that much, it reminds me of a bad 60s Sci-Fi with the bad acting. Though I do like 
 the weapon customizing feature. The ability to determine how many shots your gun fires and the 
 range makes that a very nice feature but the game could have been much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BuckyDog
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 26, 2005 4:11 am PT
Review:  Not as fun as Half-Life, but well worth the bargin bin price. The weapons were really cool, the 
 cut scenes were fun to watch, driving the tank was more fun than expected. In addition, the story 
 was a bit hokey but engaging. The game runs really well on my old Dell 400mhz (heavily upgraded) . 
 I felt that this game deserved more credit for what it was ... and people with older PCs can be 
 assured it will run well on there rigs and be a lot of fun to play. One thing though, I did notice 
 a lot of inconsistancies with the quality of the sound - but nothing that distract away from the 
 experience too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: optophobic
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 11, 2005 7:36 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed Half-Life, so when I saw this game and found out that it was from the same graphics 
 engine as Half-Life I looked forward to playing it. I think I bought it for less than $10, and 
 it really was worth all that.
  
  The game itself is very short. I won't take long to beat and it is a lot easier than Half-Life. 
 I played it on the highest difficulty setting and it was hard, but I still beat it within ten hours. 
 The easiest setting lastest for about five hours.
  
  The graphics on it aren't nearly as polished as Half-Life. I feel as though if this game had came 
 out before Half-Life, Half-Life would've just been taking this game to the next level. But as it 
 was it wasn't nearly as good as Half-Life, but similar, so everyone compared it to that. As a game 
 by itself it was fun and worth the money.
  
  I honestly feel that the main idea of the game was borrowed by Halo. Especially when I played the 
 begining of Halo 2, I had the feeling of the begining of Gunman.
  
  The sounds on the game are crappy. They really aren't that great. There is a little bit of a stereo 
 effect, but nothing outstanding. It more distracting most of the time.
  
  But this game should run on any system that's at least Windows 98 or 95 and if you find it for 
 less than $5, I'd say that it is well worth that amount of money. It can be a fun game if you forget 
 about Half-Life for a little bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elfin
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jun 25, 2004 6:14 pm PT
Review:  I actually enjoyed this game. Granted it may be rated a bit higher in my book for value since I 
 got off the bargain shelf for $10.
  
  I liked the dinosaurs and some of the levels were good. Sure some of the gameplay was a bit Cheesy, 
 (some games have a bit of Cheesyness somewhere) ( Mmmmm Cheesy :) ) I still played it all of the 
 way through. 
  
  Even if it was a Rip-Off of Half Life as the GSpot review says, at least they ripped off Half Life 
 instead of Daikatana. :) 9.4 vs. 4.6
  
  Anyway if you like a first person shooter, and don't expect a ton of graphics (It is an older game 
 now you know.) this was a decent game for the money. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
