-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Half-Life: Opposing Force
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/halflifeopposingforce/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 24, 1999
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.6, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 3,194 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Gearbox Software
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Oct 31, 1999
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The official expansion for the genre-redefining Half-Life in turn sets a new standard of quality 
 for future action-game mission packs. 

 First-person-shooter mission packs are usually mediocre: Throw together a few new levels, put in 
 some more guns, add a spider, and you've got a commercial add-on for your aging product. As such, 
 it's appropriate that Gearbox Software's Opposing Force, the official expansion for the genre-redefining 
 Half-Life, in turn sets a new standard of quality for future action-game mission packs.  

 Opposing Force's story recounts the events of Half-Life, but from the opposing side's perspective 
 as implied by the title. You are Marine Corporal Adrian Shephard. You've been sent to the Black 
 Mesa Research Facility to locate and eliminate Gordon Freeman. As in the original, things immediately 
 go awry, mistakes are made, people die, and your initial plan is replaced with a complicated fight 
 for survival. It's a testament to the success of Half-Life that its story actually warrants retelling. 
 The developers know that while Adrian Shephard has no idea what Freeman is doing, you do, and they 
 pack the game with clues as to where you are in relation to Half-Life's hero. Your path initially 
 converges with Freeman's, then takes some unexpected detours. Many of the original settings and 
 incidents are referred to or revisited from a slightly altered perspective, and it's a ringing 
 endorsement of their effectiveness that to give any of them away would lessen your enjoyment of 
 the game.  

 Like Half-Life, Opposing Force's greatest strength is its success at consistently delivering surprises. 
 You can sense the designers' enthusiasm as one memorable scene unfolds after another, and it compels 
 you to keep playing. Although Opposing Force is only about one third as long as its predecessor, 
 it's packed with original content. There isn't much filler in the game, so while you may finish 
 it in just over ten hours or so, the experience feels much more complete and satisfying than many 
 longer games, which tend to be padded with hours of drearily similar firefights.  

 Despite its relatively short length, there's plenty of shooting in Opposing Force. Instead of limiting 
 you to fighting alongside no more than two of Half-Life's weakling scientists or security guards, 
 you can now recruit a squad of up to eight marines. The marines have the same advanced artificial 
 intelligence as when they were your enemies in Half-Life, so that some of the large-scale battles 
 staged in Opposing Force are simply phenomenal. Even though the game doesn't require you to do 
 so, you'll want to replay such combat sequences just to try out different strategies in an effort 
 to reduce friendly casualties. However, although the game lets you lead so many companions, you'll 
 likely never have more than four at a time thanks to the AI's finicky following behavior. Opposing 
 Force's only significant flaw is that it's often difficult to keep your followers in line. In some 
 instances they simply appear to become confused, and at other times there is an invisible line 
 they will not cross. It's usually unclear which of these two reasons keeps your squad from moving 
 forward, so you'll spend too much time trying in vain to keep it assembled. This is a shame, as 
 the rest of the game is of such high quality.  

 Opposing Force adds nine new weapons to Half-Life's arsenal. There are a few additions to each original 
 category - standard guns, experimental guns, and alien artifacts - and each is useful for the most 
 part. An especially clever version of a grappling hook is put to good use in many of Opposing Force's 
 action sequences and puzzles. The new experimental weapon's secondary firing mode transports you 
 to a small section of the alien world Xen, where you can gather some extra health and ammo in the 
 heat of battle.  

 Most of the aliens in Half-Life weren't nearly as crafty as the enemy soldiers. Opposing Force introduces 
 a new breed of alien warrior that is the marine's tactical equal, along with about ten other new 
 allies and adversaries, including a few impressive boss monsters. Some of the new 3D models are 
 merely window dressing but add to the game's rich atmosphere. A great number of scripted sequences 
 have also been created for Opposing Force, which are often darkly humorous - the designers at Gearbox 
 seem to harbor a real grudge against Half-Life's hapless scientists and dispatch them with sadistic 
 ingenuity.  

 Opposing Force doesn't include any new multiplayer game modes but is packaged with a set of multiplayer 
 maps designed by a team of "all-stars" assembled by Gearbox, including such level design luminaries 
 as Tom "Paradox" Mustaine and the Levelord. As you'd expect, these map designs are all at least 
 competent. Most of the new weapons and character models are also available in the multiplayer game. 
 However, the excellent single-player experience remains the best reason to get Opposing Force. 

 While it doesn't add anything new to the graphics or technology of Half-Life, Opposing Force still 
 manages to thrill through the impassioned application of creative design. It's the interactive 
 equivalent of a page-turner; you'll finish it in a marathon sitting just trying to see what surprise 
 lies around the next corner. Quite simply, the best first-person shooter ever released is now bolstered 
 by the finest mission pack yet created.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (58 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wreckem406
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 10, 2009 10:03 pm PT
Review:  If you want to fill in any of the gaps left in the original Half-Life, Opposing Force is most certainly 
 a game for you. In Opposing Force you take the role of Adrian Shephard a Marine in the Hazard Environment 
 Containment Unit, the force sent to Black Mesa Research Facility to "clean up" the situation there.
 
  
  However complications arise as soon as Shephard enters the area and his only mission is to survive 
 and bring out as many people as he can. Despite a few inconsistencies with the original game Opposing 
 Force adds quite a bit to the Half-Life universe and the events that transpired at Black Mesa.
 
  
  Opposing Force handles just as well as the first and the addition of a few new weapons only manages 
 to add to the games appeal, one great addition is the barnacle gun which functions as a grappling 
 hook and adds a new and welcome element to the gameplay.
  Shephard turns out to be just as good a protagonist as Freeman was and is easy to connect to. And 
 all in all, Opposing Force is one of the best expansions to any game you'll play in a long time.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: arvuti12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 1:14 am PT
Review:  In opposing force you play as HECU marine called Adrian Shephard, he was sent in black mesa so 
 he could kill "gordon freeman (the main character in half life 1) " . But your osprey gets attacked 
 by aliens and you hardly survive the crash. You were saved by a scientist who tells you to go back 
 to the crash site and radio for help.
  
  Opposing force is an stand alone expansion pack where you get new multiplayer maps, new weapons, 
 new enemies, new friendly npc's (engineer, medic and an regular soldier who will help you trough 
 the game) .
  
  The game is actually better than half life, there is more action and there is not any of stupid 
 "on the rail" levels like half life 1 had.
  
  
  One word description to opposing force: Amazing, while the story mode is kind of short (was for 
 me) , it's an great game with a lot of upgrades. Must buy for half life fans ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tuff_gong92
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2008 5:57 pm PT
Review:  One Gearbox software has done us a great service by making this game. The original Half-Life was 
 a masterpiece and a water-shed moment in gaming. Gearbox decided to give us more of that, and yet 
 add enough new things to make it seem fresh.
  
  This time around you leave Gordon Freeman behind to do his business and you take over the role 
 of Corporal Alan Shepard. One of the marines dispatched to clean up Black Mesa and find Gordon, 
 that plan goes south pretty quickly once the aliens show up. Not to mention Black Ops has decided 
 to enact its own agenda, taking out all who stand in their way.
  
  Gameplay here is the same top-notch stuff found in HL1. The clever AI (namely its difficulty) is 
 back here but instead of marine tactics, you have Black Ops kicking your ass. Gunplay is exquisite 
 and is on par if not improved on from the previous game.
  
  The game carves out a unique experience all its own with the addition of new weapons and enemies. 
 The weapons now include a variety that Gordon never got a chance to use. Alien weaponry that are 
 nothing but aliens that happen to shoot something, an increased assortment of standard military 
 weapons, and just plain more of everything. New enemies dominate the game including variants of 
 old favorites such as headcrab zombies that have evolved on step further. 
  
  Being a marine means you have marine buddies. These guys all have different roles from combat, 
 to engineer, to medic. The engineer is needed to cut open locked doors (a scripted scene) , the 
 medic can give you health (think mobile health station) , and you know, dudes that shoot guns at 
 other dudes.
  
  The main drawback however of the game is ironically the new weapons. You get swamped with the amount 
 of guns you have. It can get tedious to go though your weapons to pick which one is ideal. It's 
 harder to manage your stash of guns and like ammo this time around.
  
  The environments are the cornerstone of the experience in Half-Life: Opposing Force. The levels 
 are stunning, varied, and creatively different from the HL1's environments. Puzzles this time around 
 are much better implemented and rarely do you go stretches without combat. Intricate and clever 
 puzzles are usually associated with the amazing boss fights in the game.
  
  The way the game flips the perspective from Gordon to the marines is actually pretty profound. 
 It allows you to see the other side and give you a little insight. Playing through HL: OF, you 
 get the impression that the marines you fought in HL1 are not really bad guys at all. They were 
 doing their job, the fact that it was Gordon didn't matter. It goes to show that combat, and war 
 really, is not personal. It's a job and in this case, a struggle to survive. You get this feeling 
 like there's multiple sides to this (and all) struggle. This aspect of the story, given the effort 
 to think about it, is just as effective if not more than the original game.
  
  In short, buy this game. I will say stick to the forums and find solutions to any glitch you do 
 find in the game that happens to exist depending on the version of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeWierd20
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Just about everyone who played 1/5 or so into Half-Life eventually encountered the Military sent 
 in by the US in order to silence the facility. Players could easily identify them as the enemies 
 in the game. But what if the player WAS the enemy? Gearbox has surely seen what made Half-Life 
 so famous, and it's bringing it all back. This time however, you're on the military's side.
  
  Mission packs, as they were called in the 90's, where expansions to the core game, usually 
 being slightly diverse in order to create more unique gameplay, creating something new and fun. 
 Opposing Force was famous for this, as being the best expansion ever, to the best game ever.
  
  The expansion introduced so much more to gamers that it almost felt like a completely different 
 game altogether.
  
  In this expansion, you are still given Easy, Normal, Hard mode, and even the Training Room (which 
 is completely different from the first) . There is even multiplayer mode that introduces many new 
 weapons and game modes, even a capture the flag based set of maps (which are arguably the most 
 trade markable multiplayer element the game introduced to Half-Life) .
  
  Other features were new friendly and unfriendly NPCs, new weapons (both organic and non-organic) , 
 new voice actors (some are kinda bad compared to today's standard) , new models, and of course new 
 maps/areas of Black Mesa.
  
  Since I never release too much back story in my reviews, I'll just say: You're character is Corporal 
 Shepard, a soldier who has just gotten out of Boot Camp and is now on his first assignment, which 
 is located at the Black Mesa research facility. Him and his squad do not even know where they are 
 exactly going, and barely know why they are being sent in. Just as they are coming in for a drop 
 from one of the helicopters, one of the choppers gets shot down from they sky from an unidentified 
 flying object (yeah, sorta like a UFO) , and they all eventually crash and get in the heat of a 
 battle with alien looking creatures. You become knocked out and later wake up inside the research 
 facility in one of the labs, along side other soldiers who are dead.
  
  The game is very long compared to the later released Half-Life: Blue Shift, giving about 10-20 
 hours of gameplay through the first run. There are still Easy-Medium-Hard difficulties and you 
 even get a new multiplayer mode. There is a new hand mode for your character and many new weapons 
 (you strangely even wield a Barnacle at one point in the game) .
  
  It's has everything that made Half-Life so fun. A great story mode with an excellent multiplayer 
 as a bonus. An easy earned 10 from me. Play it, you'll get what I mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chesterocks7
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 11, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Experience the Half-Life story from the view of an enemy soldier, same things that made 
 Half-Life great make this expansion just as great, having squadmates makes larger battles easier 
 and somewhat more tactical.
  
  THE BAD: Cliff-hanger ending.
  
  Half-Life: Opposing force is the first expansion to the legendary Half-Life. You play as Adrian 
 Shepard, one of the soldiers sent in to "clean up" the Black Mesa accident. The game starts out 
 with you on your way to the facility, directly after the portal to another dimension is opened 
 up. As soon as you enter the facility, you learn that things are a bit more complicated than the 
 briefing led you to believe. It's not long before you are seperated from the rest of the soldiers 
 and it's made obvious that someone doesn't want you with them. A routine clean-up turns into a 
 fight for survival against enemies you never knew existed.
  
  Everything that made Half-Life great are still present in this game. 
  
  The story, while it 
 may seem repetitive is still very fresh and unpredictable. It gives you a whole new look at the 
 events that took place in Black Mesa, and there are very few parts that feel like a rehash of the 
 orginial Half-Life. And one of the coolest aspects of this expansion is seeing clips of moments 
 you played in the original Half-Life. The one that stands out the most is when you burst into the 
 portal room and see Gordon jump through to another dimension. Seeing glimpses of the game you played 
 from a different perspective is a great touch and really makes you feel even more immersed in the 
 Half-Life universe.
  
  The graphics are at the same level as Half-Life, and still look pretty good today. 
  
  The 
 sound is still top notch and sets the mood well.
  
  The combat is just as tense and exciting as in the original Half-Life and there are a slew of new 
 weapons which are a blast to play around with. 
  
  The computer AI is just as good as well, although this time you obviously won't be fighting any 
 soldiers. You also have moments where you will fight alongside allied soldiers. While they are 
 not incredibly useful, it does add some variety and makes some of the battles a little easier. 
 The allied AI isn't as good as the enemy AI, but it's not that big a deal. The different soldiers 
 are also unique as to the weapons they carry and the roles they'll play in combat. It's not as 
 fleshed out as it could be, but it still keeps things fresh and interesting.
  
  All in all it's an amazing expansion which lets you further explore the incredible universe that 
 Half-Life takes place in. The gameplay is just as tense and enjoyable as in the original, and will 
 keep you entertained all the way to the final boss battle. If you enjoy any FPS shooter, you need 
 to get your hands on this one. It won't dissapoint you.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 10
  STORY: 10
  GRAPHICS: 9.5
  SOUND: 10
  VALUE: 10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghaz013
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 16, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Opposing Force is just as good if not better than the original.
  
  -Pros-
  *Play as a Soldier not Freeman
  *New Weapons and Toys
  *Can Control Allies which can Hold their 
 Own
  *Awesome Voice Acting
  *More of the same Goodness from Valve
  *New Scary Monsters
  *Same Intense AI
  *Same Gripping Storyline
  
  -Cons-
  *No Gordon
  *Friends sometimes 
 get in the way
  *Probably not same Length as original HL
  *Some environments can feel reminiscent of HL1
  
  
  
  If you enjoyed Half Life, you rally 
 should check this out its a great add-on to one of the best shooters around. Definitely give the 
 Half Life series a go. Opposing Forces wont short change you, I promise, follow the storyline and 
 have a BLAST
  
  Hardware/Software- 2008 Hardware can run it no problem, even Integrated cards should do the trick. 
 If the game appears to be running 'fast' turn off dual core if you have it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 15, 2008 12:47 am PT
Review:  Half life opposing forces
  
  Half life opposing forces is another instalment to the half life family 
  
  
  The game play 
 You are a soldier call corporal shepherd and it is your job to kill all of the aliens that are 
 about in the complex, but as you are on your way your aircraft is blown out of the sky and you 
 crash, you are rescued by a scientist and you have to find help form other soldiers and you are 
 in command. 
  
  The Graphics The graphics are a lot better than the first half life and more improved graphics 
 on the weapons and on the buildings you see and any other items you see in the game but there can 
 be room for improvement in the game 
  
  The sound The sound is a lot better than the first half life, and you can hear the soldiers radios 
 a lot clearer than before and also you can hear the nasty aliens that are close by talking to each 
 other but there can be room for improvement in the game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 22, 2008 9:42 am PT
Review:  Gameplay 8
  Graphics 8
  Sounds 8
  Value 7
  Tilt 9
  
  Expansion packs normally are for the die-hard fans. That is: those who want more of the original 
 title plus a little extra to get the momentum going. So naturally I'll take extra precautions when 
 playing expansion packs as an unpleasant one can alter the mood for the original game. However 
 the reverse can also be true.
  
  Half Life: Opposing Force in this case is neither the above. Its not just a little more 
 nor overrides the original. Opposing Force can be looked at as another grand single player chapter 
 in the Half Life universe therefore calling it an expansion pack is an insult. Again 
 Gear Box brought to the gaming market innovation and placed a new meaning to the word expansion.
 
  
  The events of Opposing Force take place roughly about  the way from Half Life. You play the role 
 of Corporal Adrian Shepard and your task is to hunt down and eliminate Gordon Freeman. For me, 
 I normally try and guess as to how can you play a foe for the hero of the first game? After all, 
 the marines did have many battles with the fiends of Xen and encountered Gordon himself. Well, 
 the folks at Gear Box made this experience just as enjoyable and intense as the first by fighting 
 the critters of Xen (and introduced new ones like the dreaded Shock Troopers) and another group 
 called Black Operatives. These gals made a brief appearance in Half Life however 
 in Opposing Force, they are a definite force to be reckoned with. Handle with extreme caution.
 
  
  As with typical expansion packs, expect new weaponry. However as I have mentioned before, this 
 is not your typical expansion pack as most of the weaponry are new and exclusive to Opposing Force. 
 Ranging from the powerful Desert Eagle (with laser sighting) to the M-249 SAW Light Machine Gun, 
 sniper rifle and those wonderful inventive experimental weapons (mums the word  no 
 gonna say what they are) made this game ever so attractive.
  
  On a weaker side, the style of game play feels similar to Half Life. Its not to say its 
 going to bore you as there will be plenty of fire fights, fragile environments and the like, however 
 the puzzles seems familiar. At times once I examined some dreaded indestructible foe only to realise 
 the feeling of Dj vu as I recall a similar incident in Half Life. That said, there usually will 
 be an additional twist to overcome those puzzles that requires the usage of those experimental 
 weapons. And naturally the G-Man makes his appearance when you least expected so keep your eyes 
 open (he even makes an appearance during the training grounds) .
  
  There are improvements in Opposing Force. The concept of controlling your squad is a cool idea 
 indeed. There will be times that requires the engineer to knocked down sealed doors or that ever 
 so valuable medic healing your wounds and of course extra grunt power. All this is controlled by 
 the use key for simplicity however your squad are not the brightest bunch so use 
 them wisely. 
  
  The graphics for Opposing Force made little improvements to the original Half Life. Even though 
 still visually appealing however its starting to show its age. Games like Unreal Tournament 
 and the new Quake Engine Quake 3 are now the darlings of the beauty pageant, its a shame 
 to see that Opposing Force still using the Quake 2 engine.
  
  Sound wise is the same however its still robust and aggressive as ever since last year. 
 There are more voices added (mainly for the squads) and additional short bursts of the musical 
 scores. Those scores are few and far between however hit the correct tempo when needed. Its 
 a shame that they didnt ulitise this more often. The environmental sounds are just as hostile 
 with loud explosions and the like and whats really impressive were the echoes of running 
 feet from the Black Ops as they draw near you yet still remain in their hiding places only to suddenly 
 flank you.
  
  As far as expansion packs goes, its rather long and approximately it maybe half as long 
 as Half Life. Considering the intensity of some of the missions makes the game feels a little longer 
 than expected as you constantly trying to search for cover to avoid the bombardment. That said 
 it took me close to the ten hours mark. There is that typical easy, medium and hard difficulty 
 however playing on medium will definitely challenge even the seasoned FPS players due to the cleverness 
 of the AI and the brittle surroundings.
  
  I will admit, it was initially hard to imagine playing an expansion pack that did not involved 
 the main character (in this case Gordon Freeman) however playing one of his adversaries the Marines. 
 I always trying to imagine what will be the game play like being the enemy trying to hunt down 
 Gordon and making sense will be a daunting task indeed. However the Gear Box think tank done the 
 impossible and produced a fast-paced action FPS even though it feel like more of the same but different; 
 but don't let that deter the enthusiasm. Go and play Opposing Force and welcome back to that death 
 trap called Black Mesa. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EXCON_
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  STORYLINE:
  Opposing Force is not an mission pack, nor is it an expansion pack. In fact, its a whole game in 
 it self, from the view point of Adrian Shepherd, one of the US Marines sent to clear Black Mesa 
 of the Alien infestation and eliminate the scientists... and well, things don't go the way they 
 should.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  An actual improvement over those of its original game, with the HD models pack, it updates the 
 look of the environments, character models, weapons, and sound effects (the best change being that 
 they made the SMG into the M16A2 with an M203 attached) .
  
  SOUNDS:
  as I said above, the HD pack that was included into this game increases the sound quality and gives 
 the NPCs better voices while you weapons sound different. The biggest difference is the shotgun's 
 reloading sound (sadly I noticed these kind of things...) .
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  This game introduced more weapons that I feel should have been kept into Half-Life 2 such as the 
 'Squid gun' that shoots spore clusters that explode and blow anything apart, or the 'Shock bug' 
 which similar to the Hive Hand, but shoots unguided electrical bolts. And more human weapons were 
 added, like the clip-based magnum, the M249 SAW, and the M24 sniper rifle, a huge improvement over 
 the crossbow. The multiplayer was even better in this version too, but good luck finding anyone 
 to play it now a days, but thanks to steam, some people still actually do.
  
  OVERALL:
  9.0 out of 10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 4, 2008 5:19 am PT
Review:  Explanation of the game: Half life Opposing force is sort of missioned based, but not exactly, 
 in this game you have to know where to go and how you have to go to achieve your purpose. The game 
 starts off as a group of military men, who are sent to battle but get attacked by an alien spacecraft. 
 Then you start playing as someone named shepard or something like. as you make your way through 
 the game's difficulty level and you keep uncovering secrets that reveal and will help you achieve 
 your purpose, the game starts to get really good.
  
  Review: Of course as you may know, in a computer, a game doesnt seem to look as great as in other 
 consoles like the ps2 or the gamecube or the xbox, However, this game comes pretty close. graphics 
 8.8/10, they look like the graphics from red faction but i bit more messed up or blurry. the game 
 play is truly a 9.3 out of 10 because of all the things you can do like kill aliens, hide, and 
 many other things. sounds, they are good but not great. the explosions are the ones that sound 
 really good
  
  Surroundings: the surroundings of opposing force are awesome, sometimes you may see a spacecraft 
 crashed on the floor or sometimes you may see some vehicles stop or being operated by enemies or 
 sometimes you may see your own team's vehicles destroyed. there are blown up buildings with cracks 
 all over the walls. there are hidden places for weapons and many other things. also sometimes you 
 may see factories and labs where some aliens are being studied.
  
  Teams or help in the game: In opposing force there are teams that sometimes on some missions that 
 you have to do help you and that also fight with you. Among this team, there's a medic, an engineer 
 that opens looked doors, and two other soldiers which have very nice weapons to defend themselves 
 with. their comments are so good. they may say "let's go" or "move in". those comments are really 
 good and when they're dying or about to die, they may say "you're gonna have to do this one your 
 own" or something like that.
  
  Enemy's Artificial Intelligence and weapons: this is truly the best part of the whole game combined. 
 the aliens are very smart in this game. in other games, the enemy usually comes running towards 
 you and starts hittting you, However, in this game they dont go after you, instead they stay where 
 they are and wait for you to come back. everytime they hit you they make a noisy or sound. many 
 of them have the ability to appear and disappear. when they appear, you may see like a thunder 
 or some electricity and you may hear a sound. Don't get me wrong here, in this game you not only 
 see aliens you also see humans that are your enemies and they also have incredible artificial intelligence, 
 sometimes they might shoot you, and then they would run away, but if you are really close to them, 
 they'll stay next to saty and never stop shooting. the weapons are awesome, truly beautiful, there's 
 a pistol, a gun which has like a red light that points right to where you are aiming (don't know 
 what it is called) , there's a bazooka, there's also grenades, knife, and a crowbar. there's more 
 but i dont remember the other ones.
  
  Conclusion: I recommend this game to anyone that wants to kill aliens and really wants to play 
 in a game where artificial intelligence is crucial. the game is really good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 12:11 am PT
Review:  It is often easy for a company to create a mediocre expansion pack for a successful game, but don't 
 tell that to the creators of Opposing Force. This game is full of the same kind of fun that made 
 Half-Life such a great game, while changing things around to make a new type of fun.
  
  The story is pretty much the same as Half-Life, except that this time around you play as Adrian 
 Shepard, one of the marines who is supposed to hunt down Gordon Freeman. The expansion begins at 
 about the same time that Gordon goes through the portal to Xen. It starts off related to Half-Life, 
 then continues the story, explaining how more of the Combine's forces are destroyed and what happens 
 to the Black Mesa Facility. Like Half-Life, the story is told mostly through in-game dialogue and 
 hints, and there are no real cutscenes within the game.
  
  The levels in the game are well-crafted and are original enough to keep things fresh. The combination 
 of the new puzzles and the brilliant new weapons (there is finally a proper sniper rifle!) , along 
 with a handful of new enemies a few interesting bosses manages to make this expansion good enough 
 to almost be a sequel. You will likely not get very bored of the single-player and the game is 
 only slightly shorter than Half-Life, which is a pretty decent length to begin with.
  
  As far as the looks go, the game is pretty much the same. The slight change of environments and 
 new enemies helps to make the game look a little better by being a little different, but it is 
 essentially the same graphics engine and though it looks good, for its time its age was beginning 
 to show. This game definately looks good though, and with a slightly larger variety of friendly 
 NPC's, at least you don't get tired of seeing the same people all the time as much as Half-Life.
 
  
  The sound is top-notch, with wonderful new sound effects, slightly better voice acting and a brand-new 
 soundtrack that is almost as good as Half-Life's. 
  
  Overall, this is an expansion you will NOT want to miss that is an expansion of a game that you 
 will NOT want to miss. The main problem here is the multiplayer. There are some interesting new 
 maps, and the new weapons add for some variety in the multiplayer, but it is essentially the same 
 exact thing as Half-Life Deathmatch. Luckily, the single-player, which is the main component of 
 this package, is well worth the price by itself.
  
  If you own Half-Life, this expansion is a must, no question about it. If you do not own Half-Life, 
 then I have no idea what you are waiting for, because that is one of the most defining first-person 
 shooters. Verdict? This expansion is a must-have for Half-Life owners, though don't expect too 
 much new out of the multiplayer. Enjoy.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Gameplay: 9/10
  Value: 7/10
  
  OVERALL: 8.5/10 (8.25/10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 10:08 pm PT
Review:  In this expansion pack for the original Half Life entitled Opposing Force, you play as Corporal 
 Adrian Shephard. You and your fellow US Marines (Hazardous Environment Combat Unit division) are 
 sent to the Black Mesa Research Facility. Before you are given your objective, however, your plane 
 is shot down and you are forced to fight for your life. As you venture throughout Black Mesa, it 
 is revealed to you that your HECU unit was to kill any one within the facility and cover up the 
 incident that had occured.
  
  Its a first person shooter, and its a fun one at that. You acquire many different types of guns 
 like the SAW, knife, shotgun, MP5, rocket launcher, wrench, grenades & satchels, a portable Barnicle, 
 sniper rifle, some sort of alien grenade launcher, and many more. Each weapon is equalyl satisfying 
 to fire off and the sound effects of each explosion and shot fired is fantastic even by todays 
 standards.
  
  You will be forced to fight a lot of different things through out Opposing Force. This title pits 
 you against things like Black Ops soldiers (which are the HECU's nemeses) , Shock Troopers (humanoid-aliens 
 that shoot electrical charges at you) , Vortigaunts, these dog-type things that send out shockwaves, 
 these giant walking tad-pole sorta monsters that shoot these poison needles at you, a gigantic 
 worm appropriately named Pit Worm, and many more. Each adversary is fun to fight, and you'll encounter 
 each one numerous times (except the Pit Worm.. he's like a mini-boss) .
  
  In this title, you are able to command different groups of HECU soldiers as you progress. Each 
 one carries different weapons, some can heal you, others can get you through locked doors, etc. 
 Anyway, each one is definitley helpful to have when you get into battles. However, their AI is 
 just bad... you'll want them to follow you down a ladder and they will just stand there and do 
 nothing or sometimes even say good bye. Oh well.
  
  The ending to this game was disappointing. You disarm this nuclear bomb that the Black Ops were 
 prepping, and as you walk into the elevator to face the last monster you notice the G-Man re-arming 
 the nuke. Anyway, you fight this huge beasty, kill him, and somehow wind up on a plane with the 
 G-Man. He tells you that he has "a fascination with people who adapt and survive against incredible 
 odds" and has decided to "preserve you for future endeavours." From there, outside the plane, the 
 sky turns into what I imagine is space. The G-Man takes his leave, and keeps you in space... away 
 from harm, and away from doing harm.
  
  Also, this title has a lot of puzzles in it. I'm not a fan of puzzles but others may be.
  
 
  I highly suggest if you haven't played Opposing Force by now (like me) then you really need to 
 get this title and play through it. Its a lot of fun, and certainly challenging. An 8.5 out of 
 10.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 5:52 am PT
Review:  As regular PC Gamer readers will know, our reviews section is reserved for complete games, while 
 expansion packs are left to the scrutiny of Tom McDonald's Extended Play column. In fact, Half-Life: 
 Opposing Force is only the second expansion pack in our five-year history to receive a full review 
 (after Jedi Knight: Mysteries of the Sith) , but our experience with it convinced us that it deserved 
 our full attention. The impressive length, innovative perspective, and dynamite level design make 
 Opposing Force the undisputed expansion pack of the year, and a strong contender for best game, 
 period.
  
  It should be a foregone conclusion that last year's undisputed Game of the Year has found a happy 
 home on each of our readers' hard-drives, but let's review for the sake of that overworked patent 
 lawyer who still hasn't played Half-Life:
  
  It was another stimulating day at the subterranean Black Mesa Research Facility. The loyal staff 
 of privileged scientists at the Sector C Test Labs arrived for work in anticipation of another 
 in a series of attempts to create a resonance cascade. A mysterious sample delivered that morning 
 by military escort created quite a buzz, and the lead scientists were under pressure from the administrator 
 to deliver success. Pressure, it seems, that was applied too hard.
  
  Stark pandemonium struck the facility when a malfunction opened a pan-dimensional rift through 
 which hostile aliens entered our world. Gordon Freeman, a scientist who aided in the dreadful incident, 
 awoke from unconsciousness to a Black Mesa wrought with destruction and chaos. Aliens were terrorizing 
 - and mutating - his fellow humans. Armed with a crowbar and whatever weapons he could scavenge, 
 Gordon slowly crept toward the surface. Eventually, the cavalry arrived in the form of a crack 
 military unit sent to rescue the Black Mesa stuff.
  
  Or so it seemed. Before his astonished eyes, shadowy US marines assassinated Gordon's innocent 
 colleagues. The armed grunts were not there to rescue, but to cleanse and silence. Stunned, terrified 
 and enraged, Gordon silently calculated his escape strategy. Trusting no one.
  
  The rest, as they say, is gaming history. Gordon, with our help, evacuated the facility, traveled 
 to the alien world of Xen, conquered the alien threat, and saved the world - and his own neck - 
 in the process. A final cryptic encounter with a mysterious government agent served to draw the 
 curtain on the story, leaving unanswered questions and a neon vacancy sign for a sequel.
  
  It was only a matter of time before that space was filled, but we were skeptical that the follow-up 
 would live up to the intriguing plot and design quality of the original. To our great surprise 
 and satisfaction, Opposing Force surpasses every expectation. Just as Half-Life set a new precedent 
 for action games, Opposing Force raises the bar for expansion packs.
  
  Leaving conventional sequels in the trenches, Opposing Force takes place during the action we experienced 
 in Half-Life. This time the player fills the role of Marine Corporal Adrian Shephard, sent to the 
 Black Mesa facility to execute Gordon Freeman in the wake of the resonance cascade. So hang up 
 your bleached scientific gown, maggots, and strap on those army boots - because you're headed for 
 Boot Camp.
  
  No kidding, either. Boot Camp replaces the original game's Hazard Course training exercise, and 
 is not to be overlooked. Overbearing drill sergeants set the tone for the player's new callous 
 persona. Where are you from, soldier, Drill Instructor Dwight T. Barnes asks another member of 
 your platoon. Texas? Holy cow, you know what comes from Texas, don't you? he remarks, tipping his 
 hat to Stanley Kubrick. Luckily, Shephard won't have to endure months of basic training. For our 
 sake, he's been bumped to the top of the advanced training list. It's a twenty-minute crash course 
 that should be more than adequate for any Half-Life veteran.
  
  The full game begins with an opening segment every bit as original and atmospheric as the groundbreaking 
 intro from Half-Life, though not nearly as long. Enroute by air to the Black Mesa facility, Shephard 
 and his wisecracking squadmates are suddenly struck by an alien craft and forced to crash land. 
 After coming around from unconsciousness, Shephard finds that a scientist has rescued him from 
 alien autopsy, and we're off and running.
  
  Not ten minutes into the game, the now-infamous order is received via radio: Forget about Freeman. 
 The alien threat is too much, and all marines are ordered to pull out. But in a brilliant scripted 
 scene, Shephard just misses the last helicopter transport out, and suddenly the player's M. O. is 
 simply survival, which proves to be a great sport of its own. It turns out that Freeman didn't 
 encounter all of the creatures that crossed into our world. In addition to most of the ones we're 
 familiar with, Opposing Force introduces about ten new aliens, all of which have a penchant for 
 human flesh. Some run as fast as Shephard, while others use organic firearms that continue to attack 
 once their owner is eliminated. Another - perhaps the most frightening - represents a further stage 
 of head crab mutation. It spits innards from its stomach and flails its claws maniacally as it 
 runs in your direction.
  
  Shephard, like Freeman, also runs into human opposition. As before, they prove to be every bit 
 as formidable as any abomination from Xen. Known simply as Black Ops, these black-clad ninja types 
 represent another battalion covertly sent in by the government with their own set of objectives, 
 and they have little respect for grunts like Shephard. Wanting just to deliver their mysterious 
 and malevolent package and get the hell out, they'll execute nosy Marines on sight. Maneuvering 
 through their lairs can be hairy, and will require frequent use of the quick-save key.
  
  Thankfully, Shephard is not alone in his struggle. At key points in the game, he happens upon other 
 stranded marines from his platoon who will assist and fight alongside him. The friendly officers 
 specialize in a variety of classes, including a Heavy Machine Gunner and a Medic who can provide 
 much-needed first aid. The Engineer is helpful in opening locked doors with his blowtorch.
  
  Typically though, all the human soldiers in the game exhibit terrific intelligence. Remember 
 how terrifyingly smart they were in Half-Life? Well, now that AI is on your side, and it makes 
 a real difference when the chips are down. When injured, they'll retreat under cover of friendly 
 fire, peer around corners, and lob grenades over obstacles. They'll even duck and cover their heads 
 if a grenade falls nearby. Best of all, they're ace sharpshooters. As the ranking officer, Shephard 
 can command his units to stay and guard specific areas or cover his six. Friendly soldiers will 
 only go so far, however - they'll stop following Shephard at certain designated points, so don't 
 rely on them too much.
  
  Working alone is not as futile as it may seem. Once Shephard scavenges a few decent weapons, he 
 becomes a resourceful fighting machine. Even his lowly wrench packs a wallop far fiercer than the 
 old crowbar. Remember, Shephard has muscles in places where Freeman never even knew he had places. 
 The .357 Desert Eagle with its affixed laser sight is extremely useful, while the stealthy sniper 
 rifle is just plain fun. Another new weapon, the belt-fed SAW (Squad Automatic Weapon) , is simply 
 the most blazingly cool machine gun since the M56 Smart Gun from Aliens.
  
  Additionally, plenty of extraterrestrial firearms make their debuts. Most unique among them is 
 a machine that fires an orb of teleportational goodness capable of warping anything in its path 
 to another dimension. The secondary fire button actually teleports Shephard to a small corner of 
 Xen replete with health and ammunition. When ready to return, a warp gate is available to throw 
 him back into battle.
  
  As for level design, Opposing Force is the most detailed and diverse 3D action game since... well, 
 since Half-Life. Thankfully, Shephard is not made to wander through any one environment for an 
 unnecessary length of time. Among other settings, he'll explore labs and wide open spaces on the 
 surface, scale cliffs, dive under water, and immerse himself in pitch-black underground tunnels. 
 And mercifully, there's very little Xen in the game - just one very short trip is made; a thoughtful 
 reaction from Gearbox to player criticisms that the alien dimension was the least fun part of the 
 original Half-Life.
  
  Half-Life purists should be ready to make one major concession. Opposing Force has many more puzzles 
 than the original and may require die-hard first-person shooter to dig a little deeper into their 
 gray matter than they previously had to. Instead of wildly shooting clusters of enemies over and 
 over, Gearbox opted to break up the action with environmental brainteasers. If you liked Half-Life 
 more for its action than for its crate-shoving and jumping antics, there's a chance you'll be disappointed 
 by Opposing Force. The Half-Life vets here at PC Gamer have all welcomed the extra challenge, however.
 
  
  Something else that Half-Life fans will appreciate is the way in which Opposing Force cleverly 
 references back to the first game time and time again. Since this mission takes place at the same 
 time as the events of the original, you'll see a lot of familiar events replayed from an all-new 
 perspective. You'll even bump into your old alter ego Gordon Freeman! One of the luxuries Gearbox 
 had with doing Opposing Force as an add-on pack is that it allowed them to assume a much closer 
 familiarity with the events of the first game than would be permitted with a stand-alone sequel. 
 Gearbox really seized this opportunity, and everyone who paid close attention to the little details 
 in Half-Life will be rewarded handsomely for it here.
  
  One strange inconsistency some have noted is the reaction the scientists have to Shephard. Freeman 
 remembers a research facility swarming with militia sent to hunt down human survivors. The scientists 
 should be hiding in the floorboards, but for some strange reason they show little fear of Shephard. 
 In fact, they're so kind as to offer a shot from a hypodermic when he is wounded. Of course, the 
 player is free to execute any egghead he pleases.
  
  Bad endings have been the downfall of a hundred good games. They're an insult to the rest of the 
 adventure, and can ruin all that's come before. Unfortunately, the ending to Opposing Force is 
 mediocre and anti-climactic at best. The showdown with the final boss creature is little more than 
 a disappointing exercise in puzzle-solving. While such conundrums serve a great purpose in the 
 middle of the game, an action title should have bookends of fiery missile-launching death. There 
 is one final encounter with the mysterious G-Man, but it doesn't tie things together.
  
  As terrific as the single-player experience is, multiplayer hasn't been overlooked. Again departing 
 from the norm, Gearbox contracted elite mercenary level designers to do their dirty work for them. 
 Designers include Ritual's famed Levelord and Tom Paradox Mustaine, as well as David Kevlar Kelvin 
 of Legend Entertainment. The result is thirteen original maps, each with its own look and feel, 
 custom-designed for the new Opposing Force weapons. While we'd love to see additional modes of 
 play, the terrific single-player experience more than compensates.
  
  In short, Half-Life: Opposing Force grabs the player's attention with the strength of an alien-possessed 
 Marine and steadfastly refuses to let go. It's so good that, had this been released as a full-price, 
 stand-alone sequel, I doubt many people would have complained. We can only wish that most complete 
 games were so well-designed, and applaud Gearbox for living up to such incredibly high expectations. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 5, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  Halflife was a blast, then they released opposing force and oh my it was a great game.
  In HL opposing force, you dont play as Dr. Freeman but as a soldier.
  You will start out at bootcamp, 
 which is really nice and presents you with the features of the game.
  
  Gameplay:
  +First presentation is really good, you feel like a real soldier
  +Gameplay remains as good as 
 ever
  +Weapons are really nice
  +New enemies are welcome
  -Length of the game isnt that rocking
  
  Graphics:
  +Nice graphics for an already old game
 
  +Still features detailed maps and characters
  -Overall graphics havent improved
  
  Sounds:
  +Nice weapon sounds
  +/- Missing more music
  
  Value:
  +Challenging and entertaining 
 singleplayer story
  -Short game
  
  Tilt:
  +Excellent tutorial
  +Great presentation
  +Nice and easy to understand story
  
  Halflife was great, this one is even better!
  See ya 
 all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: forever_blank
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 17, 2007 10:04 pm PT
Review:  Well here we are again, returning to the Black Mesa research facility we once weathered through. 
 Except this time we see the chaos through a different point of view. Subject: Adrian Shephard - 
 22
  
  Status: Deployed To Black Mesa Research Facility
  
  Rank: Corporal
  
  Thats right, he's a Coproral in the army that has been sent to clean up this mess, though he doesn't 
 really realise it, he's in for one hell of a day (sounds familiar) . To start, graphically the game 
 is virtually unchanged, textures are blurred and really the only new improvement are lightning 
 orbs in the game, you'll know what I mean when you see it.
  
  Quite a few new features in the game, which are quite frankly awesome: Chunky aliens that shoot 
 lightning orbs at you, soldier aliens (which pretty much are the equivalent of you) , a whole heap 
 of new Earth and Alien weapons, a portal device which teleports you into the Vex to heal or find 
 some health packs lying around, stealth soldiers (who's A. I is fantastic) . Its all very much worth 
 the value. Sound has also been improved slightly, taking away some of the muffled qualities of 
 the original.
  
  On your journey you will see, here and feel familar things that are reminiscent of the original. 
 Seeing Gordan jump into the Vex portal, seeing the G'man sabotage and destroy things, or coming 
 across a familar boss. Simply knowing that you might get a glimpse of something Gordan didn't see, 
 such as himself or a character he spoke to... Its just to put it plainly a great expansion, a compelling 
 story, it reinvents Half Life, the way it should of been from the start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suicidal_Healer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 13, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  Half-Life: Opposing Force is not an mission pack, nor is it an expansion pack. In fact, its a whole 
 game in it self, from the view point of Adrian Shepherd, one of the US Marines sent to clear Black 
 Mesa of the Alien infestation and eliminate the scientists... and well, things don't go the way 
 they should.
  
  Graphics: An actual improvement over those of its original game, with the HD models pack, it updates 
 the look of the environments, character models, weapons, and sound effects (the best change being 
 that they made the SMG into the M16A2 with an M203 attached) .
  
  Sound: as I said above, the HD pack that was included into this game increases the sound quality 
 and gives the NPCs better voices while you weapons sound different. The biggest difference is the 
 shotgun's reloading sound (sadly I noticed these kind of things...) .
  
  Gameplay: This game introduced more weapons that I feel should have been kept into Half-Life 2 
 such as the 'Squid gun' that shoots spore clusters that explode and blow anything apart, or the 
 'Shock bug' which similar to the Hive Hand, but shoots unguided electrical bolts. And more human 
 weapons were added, like the clip-based magnum, the M249 SAW, and the M24 sniper rifle, a huge 
 improvement over the crossbow. The multiplayer was even better in this version too, but good luck 
 finding anyone to play it now a days, but thanks to steam, some people still actually do...
  
  So if you own Half-Life, and have a Steam account, you should have this game, and you should 
 have played it. Its worth the time to play it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 8, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  An expansion should outshine its predecessor.. thus giving the incentive to buy the expansion. 
 Opposing Force (OF) not only lets you see what goes on behind the scenes as one would say to the 
 HL1 story, but lets you know what happens to the Black Mesa facility itself.. OF kicks up the arsenal 
 of weapons to the best degree.. I found the weapon loadout being one of the best in a FPS even 
 to modern games. Although I used that shock gun pretty much the rest of the game through. (Saves 
 ammo) . The graphics did not change much from the original.. though they were a bit better.. (just 
 a small smidgen) that being the only factor hampering a perfect 10.. Same excellent gameplay.
 
  
  Same excellent sound
  
  Same excellent Value
  
  And my personal review of 10 :)
  
  make this expansion a 9.9 total! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilt0193
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  While not the greatest game of all time, opposing force offers great gameplay and a story that 
 is a different view of the Black Mesa incident. THE-MUCH-LOVED-QUICK-REVIEW Gameplay: 9/10: You 
 don't know how good it is to see Gordon Freeman doing things you did.... oh yeah.... shootings good 
 too...
  Graphics: 9/10: While not the best on their own, they can be enhanced 3 fold with the high definition 
 pack included with Blue Shift .
  Sound: 9/10: If anything else... the sound is the reason why this game has the best tutorial sequence.... in 
 all gaming.
  Value:9/10: For today's standards it is a well worthwhile investment. You may or may not find yourself 
 going back to the levels... but that is dependent on your personal style of gaming.
  Tilt: 9/10: There are very, very few expansions that can offer this kind of gameplay. It does exactly 
 what an expansion needs to do. It offers a multitude of new weapons, enemies and still plays the 
 same as Half-life. THE-NOT-SO-LOVED-DETAILED REVIEW Rarely does a gamer see a game company accomplish 
 what Valve and Gearbox have done. They have made an expansion in which the game is played the same, 
 however content is added. Another difference in this package is that the new content isn't totally 
 worthless like some expansion packs. The gameplay is comparable to that of half-life's, except 
 it is shorter (as expected) . you will get roughly 7-12 hours out of it's campaign. I don't feel 
 the need explain half life gameplay. If you want a description follow the link to my review of 
 it at the bottom of the page. The greatest moments of the game are when you get to re-live half 
 life moments and see Gordon Freeman. You cant interact with him, but it's just that fun. The graphics 
 are typically the same as half life. However if you have bought the half-life: Blue Shift package, 
 you can enhance the graphics greatly with the high-def texture pack. However the graphics are appropriate 
 enough that they don't destroy gameplay and are stable. Like the graphics, the sound is stable 
 and fitting enough that it keeps you immersed into the game. The value constitutes to roughly 7-12 
 hours. All those hours... are awesome. Depending what type of gamer you are will constitute if you 
 will replay the game. I myself am choosing to relive it with the blue shift high def pack. In conclusion, 
 I will end the same way I began. Opposing Force is truly an awesome expansion pack to a truly awesome 
 game.
  
  My half life review: http://www. gamespot. com/pc/action/halflife/player_review. html? id=414532
 
  
  (A disclaimer about my reviewing style will be posted eventually) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fixer38
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 13, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  Opposing Force lets you play as one of the soldiers you had hard time killing as Gordon Freeman. 
 It may confuse you at first but you will get used to it. Opposing Force puts you into the boots 
 of Corporal Shepherd who is sent with the rest of the marines into Black Mesa with only one objective 
 : Kill Gordon Freeman. But all does not go well, your helicopter is shot down on its way to the 
 complex and most of your team dies. You later find yourself alive and thankful to the cowardly 
 scientist who saved you from death. Confused and demoralized you try to understand what is going 
 on... only to find that the G-Man has other plans for you. Opposing Force adds a small piece to 
 the already huge Half-Life universe with drastically more action then you would expect. Comparing 
 to Blue-Shift Opposing Force delivers allot more punch with new weapons, levels and allies. New 
 enemies are also present in the coerce of the plot which unravels slowly and enjoyably trought 
 the entire game. You get to see some very interesting places were you have been before in Half-Life 
 1. Like the infamous crusher were you are trowed in or just the portal at the lambada laboratory. 
 You also get to lead a squad of fellow marines to aid you with the never-ending struggle against 
 Xen`s forces. There is allot of great new continent in Opposing Force and its way to much to list 
 here.
  
  All in all Opposing Force is a great addition to the growing Half-Life series. From the moment 
 you are called a `dirt-bag` at boot camp to the moment you are placed in a stasis you will love 
 Opposing Force like you loved Half-Life 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 29, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  Although it feels dismissive to simply recommend Opposing Force as a more of the same, but different 
 extension of the much-loved original, the Half-Life pedigree was the only incentive I myself needed 
 to revisit Black Mesa. Im also willing to bet that any HL fans who didnt grab a copy of OpFor 
 directly from store shelves upon its release in 1999 probably acquired it later in the Platinum 
 Pack bundle. Which is all just to say that I understand that Im preaching to the choir when it 
 comes to convincing anyone to give OpFor a try, but I wanted to share a few thoughts on why  even 
 though I already rated the groundbreaking first title in the series with a perfect 10 score -- 
 I actually liked the sequel even better; were it possible, I would give this one a 10.1.
  
  That extra tenth of a point comes from the elation I felt when I first returned to the familiar 
 blood-spattered hallways, labs, silos, and craggy vistas of Black Mesa. The protagonist, Adrian 
 Shephard, arrives at the facility shortly after the unforeseen consequences of Gordon Freemans 
 visit to the Anomalous Materials test chamber take effect. Following a cinematic crash landing 
 and brief introduction to the new horrors in store  the headcrab zombies are evolving into big, 
 asthmatic, loogie-spewing beasts, an entirely new set of critters is muscling in on the Xenian 
 invasion, and a Black Ops unit is on the scene to clean up the cleaners  OpFors action returns 
 to form with well-scripted events around every corner and plenty of pitched battles. Although the 
 top-notch enemy AI programmed into Half-Life was certainly commendable, I always had a bit of trouble 
 keeping the Barneys and scientists tight on my heels when trying to lead them around. Friendlies 
 would often stop in their tracks if I ran ahead of them through a doorway or turned a corner, so 
 I got used to leaving them behind. The members of the four-man squads found in OpFor were just 
 as likely to lapse into navel-gazing if I moved out of their line of sight, but I never had to 
 lead them very far to find some pretty hectic battles. I especially enjoyed the three-way slam 
 between the alien shock troopers, Black Ops assassins, and my own crew toward the end of the Foxtrot 
 Uniform chapter. Overall, however, functioning as a group was a primitive affair when compared 
 to the self-directed actions of the computer-controlled compatriots found in more recent titles 
 like Call of Duty.
  
  One of my absolute favorite aspects of the entire HL series is the look and feel of each games 
 weaponry, particularly the laser-sighted Desert Eagle that is unique to Shephards kit. The symbiotic 
 relationship that Shephard forms with OpFors organic arsenal is expanded and enhanced well beyond 
 the Snarks and Hivehand in the original. As much as I enjoyed dispensing the nasty little cyclopean 
 scuttlebugs in HL, I recall using them on only one or two occasions in OpFor. I had better luck 
 with the creepy but fascinating Shockroach that was all-too happy to join my team after I vaporized 
 its original alien host. Like the equally-grody but less-effective Hivehand, the roach generates 
 its own ammo supply that works well against humans, so the spiny little fellow quickly became my 
 go-to choice for one-on-one encounters. The detached barnacle was good for chomping smaller creatures 
 -- like Headcrabs or Houndeyes -- into mush, but the weapons real treat was in its utilization 
 as a grappling hook. Finally, the friendly, purring catfish-meets-salamander Spore Launcher wasnt 
 just cute enough to cuddle, it was also one of the most effective weapons in the game.
  
  The fine folks at Gearbox did a fantastic job with the second entry in the esteemed Half-Life series. 
 The inter-dimensional clash that unfolds throughout the massive and sprawling Black Mesa complex 
 is fertile ground for a number of excellent survival stories, as the various homemade mods released 
 for Half-Life can attest, but Shephards story was by far the most interesting and creative. Adrians 
 return as a renegade member of HL2s Combine troops would fit brilliantly into the episodic sequels 
 for that game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iminthepink
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 17, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  How can you possibly improve upon a commercially successful product like Half-Life, its almost 
 impossible? How is it possible to improve upon a game that has set new limits in gameplay, technology 
 and plain old fun? Amazingly Gearbox Software has taken the world by storm with the release of 
 Opposing Force, the first of several expansion packs for the genre re-defining game and indeed 
 possibly one of the finest expansion packs ever released. In short, Opposing Force adds upon the 
 already revolutionary game, and is arguably even better than its predecessor. Surprisingly Opposing 
 Force is an expansion pack: ordinarily expansion packs for FPS games tend to be considered mediocre: 
 add a few new levels, twist the story around, put in some new weapons and enemies and then you've 
 got yourself an add-on. For the first time ever, Gearbox Software has managed to re-define expansion 
 packs into something much more than simply adding new content and changing things around. In fact, 
 it's appropriate to say that Opposing Force has to be on of the best expansion packs ever released.
 
  
  As the title implies, players will be introduced to Corporal Arian Shepard a marine from the Hazardous 
 Environment Combat Unit that's sent into the Black Mesa Research Facility to deal with a mysterious 
 biological outbreak and to eliminate rouge physicist Gordon Freeman. Opposing Force retells the 
 story of Half-Life albeit from this change in perspective. And surprisingly the story blends in 
 amazingly well with that of the original. As you arrive at the Facility, it becomes immediately 
 clear that things have gone horribly wrong: unidentified flying objects intercept Shepard's osprey 
 and destroys it forcing it to crash land. Shepard is then carried across the chaotic surface of 
 the facility before being relocated to the infirmary section of the facility. The developers have 
 done extremely well in retelling the story from another person's perspective but never make it 
 feel as if you're in a different universe than that of the original and whilst Shepard is never 
 aware of Freeman's location, Gearbox have done well at blending the story in with the original 
 game, giving you hints of Freeman location and giving you the ability to revisit some of the more 
 iconic locations in the facility from a slightly altered perspective. Your path even converges 
 with that of Freeman's, which consistently shows you that you're still in the same universe and 
 fighting the same epic struggle for survival.
  
  Unlike Half-Life, whose story seemed to revolve around the prospect of ending the invasion, Opposing 
 Force's story seems much more epic and more about survival than the need to end the invasion. Some 
 gameplay and story aspects from Half-Life are even further expanded upon in Opposing Force including 
 the Black Operatives and Gearbox has managed to include their own aspects. It soon becomes apparent 
 that these Black Operatives are intending to end the crisis in a surgical strike and it's up to 
 you to stop them from succeeding. The story's epic feeling compels players to keep playing.
  
  Like Half-Life, Opposing Force is able to immerse the player by its consistent success at delivering 
 surprises. Each level is different from the last and you never get the feeling as if you've done 
 something before, or if something is done too much. Whilst Opposing Force is only one third the 
 length of the original the game comes full with original content and gameplay. Unlike other games 
 which tend to include hours of drearily similar firefights, everything in Opposing Force is different 
 than the last. Overall you should be able to finish Opposing Force in little more than 10 hours 
 or so.
  
  Also like Half-Life, Opposing Force's gameplay is very puzzle orientated which means that on most 
 occasions the player must solve a logic puzzle that will need to be solved before you are able 
 to progress. These puzzles are always different and are located in just the right places so that 
 it doesn't get repetitive. Unlike Half-Life where you could recruit up to a maximum 2 scientists 
 or security guards, Opposing Force allows you to recruit up to 4-8 marines. These Marines are considerably 
 more durable and effective in combat than scientists and fortunately they have the same advanced 
 AI that made them such formidable opponents in Half-Life. Against the intelligence of the enemy 
 along with the advanced AI of your marines some of the fire-fights that you get into seem amazingly 
 fierce and realistic. However the job to keep your allies in line does tend to get a bit repetitive 
 when they fall out of line or fail to accurately follow you. This can get rather frustrating at 
 times when you need the additional help.
  
  Opposing Force's arsenal is amazing to say the least, with an additional 9 weapons included on 
 top of the original Half-Life, and just like the original each weapon is divided into its category 
 ranging from melee weapons, to standard guns, to assault rifles, to biological weapons and experimental 
 weapons and finally military issued fire-arms. Each gun has its own advantages and disadvantages, 
 keeping the gameplay balanced but always making you choose between the right ones in a certain 
 situation. One especially good addition is the Dispalcer Cannon. Whilst not only having the ability 
 to vaporize enemies, the secondary function acts as a portable teleportation unit, giving you access 
 to areas of Xen and Black Mesa that would have otherwise been inaccessible.
  
  Opposing Force keeps all of the same enemies that were from Half-Life but also introduces an entirely 
 different race known s Race X. This largely mysterious race has its own set of critters ranging 
 from bipedal like dogs with scythe like arms to lumbering beats of amazing strength similar to 
 the Gargantua. The game also introduces a new king of Super Zombie.
  
  Opposing Force doesn't come with any particular Multiplayer component although the game does come 
 with a set of unique death-match style maps that can be fought in over LAN connections and over 
 the internet. Most of the maps have been outfitted with the new weaponry and concepts. However 
 it's the single-player campaign that remains the best reason to get Opposing Force.
  
  Whilst the graphics isn't considerably different to Half-Life there are some noticeable differences. 
 One minor flaw with Half-Life was the lack of diversity when it came to character models: usually 
 there were about 4 different scientist models, a single security guard model, and 3 types of marines. 
 Opposing Force, whilst keeping the same models, adds even greater diversity. A new security guard 
 model nicknamed Otis is included: a fat security guard that always seems to hang out near vending 
 machines. 4 distinct Marine types are included such as a Medic who can heal your health, an Engineer 
 who can help break down locked doors, a Demolitionist and a standard Marine. This minor improvement 
 helps add to the immersion so that you don't always think the scientists and such have been cloned.
 
  
  Despite being only one third the length of Half-Life, Opposing Force still manages to send players 
 on a massive ride of surprises, story and action that will reel you in and capture you for hours 
 of entertainment and excitement. In short, the best First-Person Shooter game in history has been 
 made even better with the greatest expansion pack ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrotha
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 28, 2006 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Half-life: Opposing Force, is the first in line of the three Half-life expansions. However, Opposing 
 Force, adds the most to the franchise of those 3 expansions. Opposing Force is simply astounding 
 if you played through the first Half-life. The Half-life engine is used to bring this game to life, 
 curteousy of Gearbox Software. The father company of all Half-life expansions. Back to Opposing 
 Force now. The main twist of the game is, you're no longer Gordon Freeman. You are a marine named 
 Adrian Shepard sent in to Black Mesa by the U. S. army to capture Freeman. You're story begins around 
 the end of Gordon Freeman's story in Black Mesa. Your first assigned mission was to capture Freeman, 
 but when he becomes nowhere to be found, and your government orders the marines to evacuate Black 
 Mesa, things turn for the worst. Your squad is about to take off in a chopper on evac, and you're 
 on your way their, when a man in a uniform (The Gman) closes the hangar door on you, preventing 
 you from reaching the chopper. Your squad has left you in the confines of Black Mesa. Fortunately, 
 you radio for help, and gain contact with several other squads who were also abandoned in Black 
 Mesa. The government has now sent in Black Operations soldiers to eliminate any remaining marines, 
 and use a bomb to destroy Black Mesa as well. Now you have a whole new mission, survive the horrors 
 of Black Mesa long enough so that you may find a way out. The best part about Opposing Force is 
 the enormous amount of new content the game introduces to the Half-life franchise. You only have 
 half the weapons you did in the first episode, but a whole line up of new ones as well! To this 
 day, Opposing Force has the most weapons of any half-life game. But weapons are the least you could 
 say about new content. Shepard (the character you play as) only witnesses the creatures and events 
 Gordon Freeman witnessed for a very short amount of time. So what do you replace that with? Why 
 a whole new gang of critical events, enemies, and a whole new story. Creatures previously unseen, 
 start porting into Black Mesa around the time Shepard arrives. Not even the scientists who worked 
 at Black Mesa, and had been researching the creatures from the other world this whole time know 
 anything about these new creatures. The best thing about Opposing Force in my opinion however, 
 is the wonderful atmosphere. When you think about it, you realize you are in the middle of a four 
 way war between you and your remaining buddies who want to survive, the Black Operations squad 
 who wants to destroy black mesa as well as you and your buddies, the few Xen race aliens porting 
 in from the other world to collect the crystals that were stolen from their planet, and the new 
 aformentioned Race X aliens that are too mysterious to make it possible for anyone to know anything 
 about them. In the end, you have to stare the end of the world (in creature form) in the face, 
 and destroy him before it's too late. Black Mesa has become a war zone, Gordon Freeman is long 
 gone, everyone is out to kill you, and you just want to escape, what more are you asking for? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doodeeman
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 25, 2006 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Well, what else can i say? It rocked, there is certainly room for better graphics, but hey, its 
 an older game, but put aside graphical problems, and it KILLS THE MARKET! and with the Blue shift 
 High Def. pack, it makes the cheese... now, why don't the make add ons this good anymore!?!? Well, 
 i'll give it a near 10..... oh yeah, the only thing is, with the cheats... its a pain to get them 
 working.. i want to mess around a bit, and i have to ctuff around to get it working.. ah well, 
 doesn't matter. And the additions of alien weapon's and the hvy Military weapons is a nice icing 
 on the cake, there are a few pain in the neck levels though, e. g. where you are going thru the 
 sewers, against all those BIG things.... YOU JUST WANT TO SCREAM!!!! (btw, im just stretching for 
 words now =D ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 3, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  The second expansion to Half Life that I played and fount it quite good. In this one you play as 
 one of the marines sent in to contain the inncident and kill Gordon Freeman, but you wont spend 
 any time looking for Dr. Freeman, instead the whole time you are basically trying to escape Black 
 Mesa. The scientists in the other games you see the marines killing actually end up helping you 
 which is somewhat disapointing. It would of been better having certain scientists as targets you 
 needed to eliminate but ah well its still good. This expansion unlike Blue Shift has quite a few 
 new enemies which are very cool and well designed. It also includes about 4-5 new weapons some 
 of which I didnt use at all while others like the lightning gun are great because it has rechargeable 
 ammo. It might be that I have begun overdosing on half life games but I didnt find this one as 
 interesting as Blue Shift even. On a whole its problary the better expansion however. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 8.2
Date: Sep 14, 2006 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life: Opposing Force is the expansion pack that was always going to be released. The follow 
 up to the seminal Half-Life, it provided the same world, the same gameplay and ultimately the same 
 faults as that game. However, it also introduced some quality new gameplay elements and thanks 
 to the different take on the Black-Mesa scenario, it provides a refreshing view on the original 
 story-line.
  
  Developed by Gearbox Software (Halo, Brothers in Arms series) you play Corporal Adrian Shepherd 
 of the marines. Introduced through an impressive opening cut-scene, you are sent with your squad 
 to Black Mesa to close down the situation that occurred in the original Half-Life. The game, which 
 starts at about the Forget About Freeman' chapter of the original, actually takes a different path 
 to that game, though the paths do cross from time to time. Your helicopter crashes, you lapse in 
 and out of consciousness and ultimately when the game starts you are doing exactly what Mr. Freeman 
 had to do - running for your life. However, the angle presented is a refreshing one and a few new 
 welcome game elements are introduced. As Shepherd, you are usually given orders through radio commands 
 to get to a certain location, but of course getting from Point A to Point B is fraught with danger 
 and loaded with hostile combatants.
  
  The graphics were probably cutting edge for 1999 and still look pretty good today. While it does 
 use the same engine as the original, they do look a bit better. The huge environment has been well 
 detailed and the allies and enemies look the part, though graphics have advanced significantly 
 since this game. The weapons are nicely detailed, and there is plenty of graphical variety. The 
 framerate is consistently smooth throughout the game, even when there is a lot happening on the 
 screen. The post-disaster Black Mesa is a creative, believable and eerie atmosphere.
  
  The sounds are also atmospheric and suitable but they definitely show their age now. The explosions 
 sound very hollow compared to contemporary games. However, the sound does assist with creating 
 a genuinely eerie atmosphere. The ambient noises within the Black Mesa complex are creative and 
 atmospheric, the voice acting is decent (though I think the marines sound a bit odd) and the enemies 
 sound imposing and intimidating.
  
  When in full swing, Opposing Force is a fantastic gaming experience. A few new enemies have been 
 introduced that are smarter, quicker and harder to defeat than in Half-Life  with the Black-Ops 
 personnel particularly challenging. The bosses are big and imposing and do take some strategy and 
 puzzle solving to complete. Another excellent new feature is the squad feature. At times youll 
 be fighting along side three or four of your marine colleagues and this does lead to some spectacular 
 fire-fights. Theydo hold their own, without being invincible. The only real gripe here is that 
 at times they get lost, or will not pass certain points for no apparent reason. But other than 
 that, its a great addition.
  
  The story is well developed through the use of in-game dialogue and except for a brief stint in 
 Zen, all of the action takes place at the Black Mesa facility. There is a truly diverse world, 
 some superb level design and excellent gaming moments to be had in this facility with some particularly 
 memorable firefights. However, like with the original, there are puzzle elements that did not work 
 at times and it was particular infuriating having to quick save all the time due to the instant 
 death by not being in a pixel perfect position or completing a jump at the right micro-second. 
 I have certainly been through enough ventilation shafts for my entire gaming career and I dont 
 know what is about ladders in the Half-Life series, but they are damn easy to fall off. A lot of 
 the original ideas of Half-Life are still in Opposing Force (seamless story, health power ups, 
 excellent NPC dialogue) , but they were expected to be.
  
  There are a couple of new weird and wonderful weapons which are derived from the alien content 
 and there is a nice touch of humour throughout, usually at the expense of the scientists. And as 
 for the ending, well it is kind of humourous too.
  
  Opposing Force took between nine and ten hours to complete on the default level, which is a decent 
 amount of game time for an expansion pack. Although perhaps an hour of this was sitting in frustration 
 with the 'puzzle' issue detailed above - and the ensuing quick saving and reloading. I had no motivation 
 to replay it at a higher level, but others may have. There is a multiplayer component, but I havent 
 tried that and do not know if it still well patronized.
  
  I got Opposing Force as part of the Half-Life Platinum Pack, so value for money from my point of 
 view was pretty good. It probably would have even been worth to full price on release.
  
  Half Life: Opposing Force is a very good game, but is still has couple of niggling annoyances to 
 hold it back from greatness. It is definitely recommended to anyone new to wanting to complete 
 the entire Half-Life series and is also worthwhile for FPS fans. It has enough action, variety, 
 originality and quality gaming moments to keep any gamer happy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dillmundo
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  I never really was into 1st person shooters, mostly because I was convinced that they were the 
 usual generic version of all shooters. Games that didn't appeal to me, until I got this game as 
 a gift. When I started playing it, the graphics were so-so, but then the interaction of dialogue 
 between characters seemed so advanced! The way the game was directed and shot, it looks like it 
 would be a great movie!
  
  So getting into the gameplay, I noticed that the controls were smooth, and easy to get used to. 
 Playing the game seemed to have found the sweet spot between shooting everything in sight with 
 an explosion of blood and gore, and walking slowly, anixously awaiting the next creature to jump 
 out from around the corner!
  
  The game is fun, fast, exciting, and driven by an intense story! You'll enjoy watching the plot 
 thicken as you uncover more and more of this mysteryous alien race that has taken over the Black 
 Mesa Resarch Facility. This game isn't you typical shooter, it's a great addition to the Half-Life 
 series, and one of the best ones at that! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtbeacham
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 11, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  We all know how great the Half Life series is. Half LIfe 2 is probably my favorite game of all 
 time, and the earlier half life games are just as good, without the great graphics that we are 
 accustomed to today. Opposing Force was a lot of fun because you get to play as someone on the 
 other side, as a soldier instead of Gordon Freeman. I thought this game's weapons were better than 
 those in the original Half Life, with cooler alien guns and more powerful weaponry overall. Also, 
 the monsters were better in OF than in HL1, with more variety and just plain scarier. I would definitely 
 recommend this game to shooter fans. It is just plain enjoyable fun even today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilazn_boi
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 21, 2006 6:05 am PT
Review:  I wouldnt consider this a expansion pack to half life cause it doesnt really expand it sorta fills 
 in the blanks half life didnt.
  Gameplay 10/10
  All half life games start with like a 10 min train or helicopter beginning which is sorta of annoying 
 but the actions starts so early in the game which no other game does. They make you run around 
 and stuff. There is also new weapons. Which is awesome cause now there a a machine gun and sniper 
 rifle. And the flashlight got replaced with the night vision goggles which is just AWESOME!!!!
 
  Graphics 8/10
  The graphics are marginally better then half life 1 i guess so it should deserve some credit.
 
  sound 10/10
  Now there is no annoying commands like if you press e they follow you.
  Value 10/10
  This game comes free with a half life bundle pack...
  Reviewer's Tilt 10/10
 
  This game did many thing half life 1 wanst able to do and also half life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godsuki
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Opposing Force is far the best expansion pack for the best game of the year which is Half - Life. 
 In this game you play Coporal Adrian Shepard from U. S Marines Special Task Force. Your Mission 
 is to find Gordon Freeman and kill it but first you must survive the crash of your squad transport. 
 
  
  The Weapons are cool also the military gun like the SAW Light Machine Gun, NATO Sniper Rifle, Desert 
 Eagle and more. 
  
  What is cool about this game is that the scenarios is the same of Freeman, which means that you 
 are explore the unknown areas the Freeman did not search it due of the storyline.
  
  This Game Rocks, without a doubt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clipjammer
Rating: 7.8
Date: Apr 15, 2006 10:05 pm PT
Review:  OF is a great game that delivered many thrills to my blood-shot eyes. You will not finish it as 
 quickly as you first think. PROs New guns, new monsters, new mind-set, smooth movement CONs (truely 
 hate the old assault weapon, with its pitter-patter metal clanking) and sometimes squad mates are 
 retarded. Gameplay is relatively good, no major cons. Graphics are impressive for its time. Sound 
 is iffy, not as great as others out there. Much worth the bargain bin price. Lots of cool splatter 
 effects. Scientists are very fun to kill. After you beat it, go back and find everyway to kill 
 yourself. Thats what I've done :D Buy it if you seek thrills... and aliens... and blood... and cool 
 guns... and more blood. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nodham
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 12, 2006 7:44 am PT
Review:  Opposing Force is a missed opportunity. While the gameplay is top-notch, I couldn't help but feel 
 a strong sense of deja-vu.
  
  Opposing Force casts you as a member of the army team that harasses Gordon Freeman throughout the 
 original Half-Life. This may have you shaking with glee at the thought that you'll be able to take 
 on the 'evil' scientists and maybe fire off a few rounds at ol' Gordon himself, but don't get your 
 hopes up. 
  The game takes place during the same time period as Half-Life, so you may hear certain radio messages 
 you remember from the original, and so on. However, your character is conveniently unconscious 
 for most of the story of Half-Life, waking up around the time the "forget about Freeman!" call 
 is uttered, which means there won't be much hunting of our bespectacled hero. Therefore, while 
 you are part of the "opposing force", the only ones you'll be opposing is, as usual, the aliens 
 (ok, and some ninjas) . Scientists are once again part of your team and will help you, instead of 
 being the targets they should be for an evil soldier.
  You do 'recieve' several types of soldiers to help you now and then, and while the commands for 
 them work well enough, their AI isn't really anything to write home about. Most of them will rush 
 headlong into battle and be gibbed aside at the first opportunity when left to their own devices.
 
  Gameplay follows the usual helping, shooting, jumping pattern we know and love, with the occasional 
 'boss battle'. Even some of these seem recycled, however. There's a portion of the game featuring 
 a worm of some sort, which you must destroy in a similar way to the three tentacles in the first 
 game. Sure, this is toxic waste and that was fire, but both quests entail turning something on 
 somewhere to attack an immobile baddie that can't be killed by conventional weapons.
  There are new types of weapons and enemies to tussle with, and they're worth the price of admission. 
 Who wouldn't want to wear a barnacle on their hand, or 'use' some kind of alien that you reload 
 by feeding? There's also a hyperactive zombie and other strange aliens.
  
  In conclusion, while Opposing Force is a worthy entry into the Half-Life universe and is a blast 
 to play, it's just not as revolutionary as it would have you believe. Approach it expecting the 
 familiar gameplay and environments and you won't be disappointed, but don't anticipate genuine 
 twists that Opposing Force just can't deliver. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 1, 2006 11:07 am PT
Review:  Half Life Opposing Force is a very well done expansion pack to the already great Half Life. Rather 
 than playing as Gordon Freeman players instead play as a soldier hunting down Freeman. Half Life 
 developer Valve is doing a really good job at making their games long for players to both have 
 fun and enjoy. Opposing Force doesn't really seem like an expansion pack because it is pretty long. 
 Half Life is a classic game that may never get old and will always remain a classic. That is why 
 Opposing Force is what it is. The only con about this game is the graphics. They are the same as 
 the original Half Life but graphics do not make a difference in such a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta4ya
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is just awesome! The length of the game is about as long as HL1 and is just as fun! I own 
 all the half-life life games and I like them all I spent about 100 hours or more because i beat 
 the game and Im still playing it and I always will! The game has excellent everything. Im love 
 the variety of monsters and weapons. My favorite weapon out of all is probably the Sniper Rifle 
 since its long range and I can hide and crouch down or go up high where your enemies cant see you 
 and.... BAM!!! One down! My next is the SAW machine gun because I like the rapid fire where i can 
 just go into a room with a huge gang of enemies and shoot rapidly around the room then quickly 
 they drop dead! The start of the game takes place right after the crash and all your other soldiers 
 dead and you have to get out of there and keep your ass alive! Later on you'll find out that Freeman 
 isnt the big thing anymore, its getting your own ass outta there and staying alive!
  Close to the end of the game you'll find out that your guy is actually following in Freeman's footsteps. This 
 game has a great single player and multiplayer and its definetly recommended for people who like 
 SCI-FI FPS and love the Half-life series just like me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tartagliam
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 29, 2006 6:41 am PT
Review:  What can I say, this expansion pack brought everything you'd expect from the Valve team. You get 
 an entirely now campaign from the Grunt's perspective. This means you can actually use grunts as 
 allies and fight along side them. But not only is the gameplay dynamic changed up a bit, you have 
 completely new levels and experiences. Unlike Blue-Shift where it seemed like you were playing 
 HL over again with a new character, you actually feel like you're Shephard (your grunt character 
 in OF) .
  
  The expansion pack also adds new weapons, new aliens, cool indoor and outdoor enviroments and an 
 awesome new gameplay experience. Even if you were a so-so HL fan, this expansion pack is a must 
 own. Again though, as with an expansion pack, the downside is it's length. Expect to play through 
 it multiple times to get it's worth... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ericcartman3722
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 26, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  This was one of the first games I really got into. When I was younger I always played counter strike 
 with my brother so I fealt familiar with the controlls and overall gameplay. In this game, you 
 play as Adrian Shepard. You first have the option of going to boot camp, which is basically a much 
 more realistic version of a tutorial. Once you complete boot camp and start playing the actual 
 game, you realize that the story really isn't that great. You're aircraft is basically shot down 
 by aliens and your trapt at a base. The basic purpose is to make it out alive.
  
  From the start to the end, you are constantly collecting wepons. You start out with a very basic 
 wrench, and move up to have guns that banish enemies into other demensions. The guns in this game 
 are very realistic and well designed, but since this is a sci-fi FPS, you can find many guns that 
 have "alien like" qualities. You can send out these little bug like creatures to destroy your enemies, 
 you have this "grappling gun" that basically is a monster. It shoots out its long tounge and grapples 
 onto certain spots that you wouldn't be allowed to acces regularly. On the other hand, you are 
 also given a combat knife, desert eagle, shotgun, chaingun, etc. This game basically provides both 
 fictional and very non-fictional wepons which will please any type of FPS fan.
  
  During the game, there are many things that get repeated. For example, around every 5-20 minutes 
 you will have to break open an air vent in order to gain acces to new areas. This may seem old, 
 and it does get a little repetitive, but overall, the game's good points wash out the bads.
  
  The graphics in this game are actually VERY well done for late 1999. They even seem to look 
 really good on my laptop. (I have no idea what its capabilities are and it is mostly slow.) There 
 are a ton of nice looking urban environments to explore. Since you are constantly taking part in 
 a ton of battles against your enemies, you would really expect the frame rate to be high. Some 
 points in the game, you and your fellow squad members are fighting 5-15 enemies at once with tons 
 of explosions, visual effects, gunshots, and your computer won't seem to slow down at all. If you 
 compare Half Life: Opposing Force to any PC game today, you won't find this game's graphics any 
 better. They can look a little low quality at times, but considering that there is always so much 
 going on and this game was made in 1999, it's hard to complain.
  
  The controls are identical to the original Half-Life as well as Counter Strike. If you have played 
 any of them in the past you will catch on just fine. You basically use the W, A, S and D keys to 
 move, the number buttons to change wepons, the E key to take actions, and your mouse to move your 
 view. Since you use your mouse to look around you, the game seems really realistic. The other realistic 
 part is that there are NO cut-scenes in the game. So you are prety much convinced that you ARE 
 indeed Adrien Shepard. Looking/aiming with the mousepad is extremely fun and easy. I beat this 
 game in less than 24 hours using my laptops touchpad.
  
  Overall, this game proved to be more than Half-Life was for me. If you can find this game for the 
 PC I would reccomend it to ANYONE. You can easily squeeze a good 10-20 hours out of it.
  
  To wrap it all up:
  
  The good:
  -Awsome Gameplay.
  -Can an expansion pack really be this 
 good?
  -Awsome wepons: Guns, knives, aliens.
  -Awsome graphics for 1999.
  -Pretty cheap price.
  
  The Bad:
  -Story is good, not great.
  - Some objectives can seem 
 repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vufor
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 24, 2006 4:29 am PT
Review:  What a great development in game industry....
  I have almost finished the Half-Life... suddenly I saw the expansion pack caled HL Opposing Force, 
 here you go I bought it.. at the start of the game I just stuck and look to he game I felt that 
 man I have past this part of game in HL. I really got dissapointed that may be it was not expansion 
 pack this is may be some sort of graphic improvement package for the same game HL.
  But obviously graphic did not make any different felling to me. Same old!!
  
  I digged up net 
 for more info... and same time passing game... well. I was wrong for 100%... when I understood the 
 matter behind this pack.... I just amazed.. how developers could creat game which is totaly different 
 game but same time is connected to the original version of game. You will
  
  Well, play it and you will see how you will cross the your own mess in HL :) ) ) ) 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunman357
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 23, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Half-life opposing force is a awesome expansion pack set in the same exact time as the original 
 game.
  
  You are put in the shoes of Adrian Shepard, a soldier affiliated with the american military.
  
 
  From the beggining, you can tell, that it occurs at the same time as Half-life, due to the alien beings 
 spawning out of thin air, causing damage, killing, and litterally wreaking havok, which is more or 
 less the entire original game.
  
  In this expansion, they don't have even one level that's the same as the original game, therefore 
 creating a fresh experiance. There are also all new weapons, which also assists in the new experiance.
 
  
  The graphics and gameplay of this game are more or less the same thing as the original, therefore 
 the feel of the game did'nt change much.
  
  The sound of this game did'nt stray far from it's roots, so it still contains the awesome sound 
 that it's predacessor contained.
  
  This game is a very long game, just as the original was, so if you did'nt have enough half-life after 
 the original, opposing force is a must buy.
  
  It also contains a suitable multiplayer mode, which contains many MANY maps, so even after you beat 
 the single player game, you'll still have fun.
  
  Whether or not your a half-life fan, opposing force is a must buy for all FPS fans.
  
  This 
 game is AWESOME, long, and worth ALOT more than the $20 you can buy it for.
  
  I hope my review helped someone!!!
  
  
  
  ~gunman357~
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: whgresiak
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2006 2:02 pm PT
Review:  FPS mission packs usually arent to great. Add some Weapons, new levels, and new characters. NOT 
 this one! This Expansion Pack set a new standard. It returend you to familiar Black Mesa, but had 
 you playing as one of many
  soldiers sent to take Gordan Freeman down in the original. The Action starts right away as your 
 Helicopter is shot down by alien forces. The
  next part is awsome, as it see's you on the verge of unconsiousness lying on the ground only able 
 to watch as your as squad gets torn apart by aliens. The next thing you know your being dragged 
 by a
  scientist into a safe point. You wake up later and then the action really starts. There are a slew 
 of brand new weapons including a much
  needed Sniper Rifle, and some kick ass alien weapons. The
  game is about as long as HL1 and will 
 probably take you
  longer as it is much more difficult, with about 10 new
  creaures added, and new bosses. The Story is really
  imersive as Adrian Shperd (main character) 
 does not know what Gordan Freeman is doing but you do. You cross path's with Gordan (you
  only physicaly see him once) and see some familiar places.
  You even get to ride the Black Mesa 
 Transit System.
  There are many awsome scripted sequences including
  one where the room your in lockdowns and the floor
  starts to brake, and Acid is quickly starting 
 to fill the
  room. The Catwalk above you brakes and you have to leap
  on to it to get out of the room. The Action never lets
  down as you are treated to new weapons 
 and creatures about every hour. I still play this game and, I think it still can compete with all
 
  these new Super Amazing Graphics but have totaly linear and tedious game play games (I'm looking 
 at you COD2) . If you dont have this game and your a Half-Life fan (if your not theres something 
 wrong with you) go out and
  buy it. You can get it for like $5 or you can Buy Half Life Anthology wich has Blue Shift, Opposing 
 Force, Team Fortress Classic, and Half Life 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stangsaleen2000
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 25, 2006 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Here is the first expansion or spin-off to half-life that does do a good job. This time your on 
 the opposite side, but you don't feel like it since your not fighting Gordon Freeman. Your more 
 of following in his foot steps and don't feel like your doing anything new in the game. If you 
 played the first one you might have some fun with this one cause there are some new things to this 
 game. If you haven't ever played a half-life game then don't start with this one. You wont understand 
 what is going on. Anyway, this game is worth playing if you feeling like running through Black 
 Mesa again and shooting at aliens some more. Give this game a shot if you feel like it and you 
 might have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popo62
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 9, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  First of all if you haven't played the original half-life, then why not? It totally revolutionised 
 a genre originally benchmarked by Doom in 1994. Opposing Force is everything you could ever want 
 from a follow up/expansion pack for such a great game. The added elements of Squad based combat 
 and the introduction of new weapons/enemies/allies as well the old favourites adds to the gameplay 
 element. The level design is excellent with plenty of action packed set-pieces and some great combat 
 scenarios. The AI is what made the original game so unique and rewarding, and Opposing Force's 
 enemies are just as smart. They work together using a variety of weaponry to take you down, and 
 certain enemies will attack each other so your not the only one they are worried about. As for 
 the storyline, as with the whole of the half-life series, there is always that element of mystery 
 such as the 'gman' who pops up every now and then. All of these small detailsh engross you deeper 
 into the plot. Not only does Opposing Force do this, but it delivers just as the original half-life 
 did, twisting and turning the plot to create a superb gaming experience. This game excels in all 
 of the areas that made the original game such a success, and adds enough to interest any fps gamer. 
 If you have half-life get this, and even if you dont, buy the generation pack, because this is 
 a series that cannot be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GizmoSimo
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2006 11:03 pm PT
Review:  Opposing Force is not just an ordinary expansion to a great game , it is "The expansion" of "The 
 great game" , in opposing force you take the role of Andrew Shephard a grunt sent to eliminate 
 Gordon Freeman , but you are separated from your teammates and have to fight on your own . 
  
  Opposing Force uses the same enemies and weapons from half-life , in addition to a bigger arsenal 
 and teammates that have different jobs and can help you during fight , medics and techs are extremely 
 helpful , and you'll find yourself aided sometimes by the people you where sent to kill.
  
  The game has a great storyline , great gameplay and it is exactly what i expected it to be for 
 being a expansion to the godfather of first person shooters that is Half-Life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iyitorun
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 6, 2006 3:35 am PT
Review:  Yeah this is realy a lovely game. The gameplay was nice except the difficulty in keeping grunts 
 in line with you. The game was kind of hard especially when in the voltigore's nest and when fighting 
 Black ops in the start of the last level. All together this definately lives up to the half life 
 name and remains one of the best games I have ever played. Hope for a sequel bcos the end was quite 
 not satisfiying. Shephard was left stranded in xen by the GMAN. Anyway this game ties greatly to 
 the original Half life where take the role of 27 year old Freeman: the research scientist of black 
 mesa who somehow was the cause of the tragedy. The government decided to make matters worse by deploying 
 soldiers to clean up the mess and cover up for the disaster by silencing witnesses. In opposing 
 force you play as one of the relentless marines who somehow was seperated from his base units and 
 discovered a new kind of alien lifeform among the chaos. Overall the game still isn't as good as 
 the original due to the locations at which play. This game is recomended for any first person shooter 
 fan 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoyo462001
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2006 4:41 pm PT
Review:  fanstatic game. when you think of most good games they have flauds in them but this game is somthing 
 else. the levels are not in a single way prediitable and load up in like microseconds ans what 
 is even better is if you've played the original half life it makes it an added bonus. weapons on 
 it are good, and the thrill of killing the enemies is worthwhile and also wide variety of enermies. 
 what also makes this a good game is its storyline which gets you more and more connected to the 
 game.
  
  as soon as you've read this review buy this game because it will not dissapoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakbuky_ted
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 6, 2005 11:11 am PT
Review:  After Blue Shift came out i'm sure everyone said "well the Half-Life series had better put together 
 somthing a whole lot better than that to stay in buissness". And guess what... thay did. Most people 
 i've talked to about blue shift thought it sucked and i'm sure you did too. That's why they created 
 a better game in the same series. In Opposing Force you can finally play as a marine and try to 
 track down Gorden Freeman. I think the best part of this game is you here some of the same sentences 
 as the first one. For example in the 1st one when your stuck in a cllapsing room you here a radio 
 saying something along the lines of "Freeman got trapped under the collapsing bulding he is definatly 
 dead." And when you are a marine your friend says that over the radio next to you. Another great 
 part of this game is you can have a medic, an engineer, and a regular soldier on your team. In 
 conclusion this game is almost as good as the original if not as good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trendkill351
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 21, 2005 8:51 am PT
Review:  half life opposing force is a great pc shooter. you play as the bad guy in the original half life 
 game. your job is to go to black masa kill all the aliens and kill gordon freedman, making it so 
 there was no proof that the accident at black masa ever acurred. the thing first person shooters 
 lack the most is story. but this game has a great story line, especially for a shooter. this game 
 is still aming even tho it came out 1999. the online play is still great now. this is a must get 
 for both pc gamers and half life fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ershadsonda
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2005 9:14 am PT
Review:  The graphic is nice, the gameplay rocks, the story is great.... i've finished the original game 
 twice and i finished this one twice also.... i was pretty much stuck on the monitor screen... hahahaha
 
  
  i love it the way they make the story for opposing force intertwined with the original, it felt 
 like playing a game with a loooong story.... i loved the original game, however i feel like this 
 one is better coz it has more weapons, and you get to play as the army dudes!!.....
  
  anyways, if you love the original go grab this one, or if you don't love the original still go 
 grab this one... but you still have to buy the original though, that's way they called it expansion 
 pack (duh!) ..... hahahahha.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarsLander
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 11, 2005 8:59 am PT
Review:  Now even though Opposing force is a pretty short game, it's still loads of fun. And in some ways 
 it's better than Half-Life itself. For starters you have access to some awesome weapons including 
 an m60 machine-gun, and the bfg gun from Doom ( although it looks alittle different ) , as well 
 as a sniper rifle, and one of those mandible creatures ( you know the ones that chew off your head 
 ) , you can use them like a grappling hook pretty cool. Also you get to face some new enemies, 
 like bigger nastier zombies, and these really big creatures that are like the size of an elephant 
 but as mean as a T- Rex yikes. So overall the game is very entertaining, even though it's alittle 
 short for my taste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theheavydrinker
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  I have to say when I first heard about Opposing Force, I wasn't too thrilled with a 3rd party doing 
 the official expansion mission pack for Half-Life. Needless to say, I was surprised.
  
  Opposing Force has a military feel to it, and you have a more allied feeling in Black Mesa rather 
 than alone. This, combined with many new guns, enemies, and gameplay elements makes Opposing Force 
 as fresh as Half-Life.
  The game handles pacing and level design flawlessly so (not to spoil it) you'll see different areas 
 of places you've been before. The only complaint I have is that the game is a little short, but 
 I'd rather it be short and sweet than be longer and drag. The multiplayer was also amazing. Capture 
 the Flag is just superb. There's a lot of little cool effects thrown in like missile launchers, 
 using the spark-gun underwater and grappling around the levels like Spiderman (or Link with a hookshot) .
 
  
  This game really has a lot going for it and it's one of the most ambitious mission packs released 
 for a game, ever. Granted, it doesn't add any new features like an expansion pack would, but It 
 really shines in a flawless execution of an add-on.
  
  * Update *The only thing that annoys me a little bit is Valve screwed this game up on steam. The 
 new loading screens take away from the immersion and Capture the Flag seems to be missing online. 
 I tried to find the CTF servers, but I couldn't. My suggestion is to play this on WON if you can. 
 If not, it's still good but not as awe inspiring as it once was. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 043030
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 11, 2005 6:31 am PT
Review:  Half-Life was a definitive FPS, so the expansion pack Opposing Force, which was made by Gearbox 
 and not Valve, had a lot to live up to. Could it match and further Half-Life's greatness? 
  
  Well... YES!!
  
  Naturally, as it is with all expansion packs, Opposing Force isn't as stunning 
 or groundbreaking as Half-Life, though it does take the greatest elements of Half-Life and improves 
 or furthers them.
  
  In Opposing Force you are Adrian Sheppard, one of the marines sent to Black Mesa, with the objective 
 of 'cleaning up the mess'. However, your plane crashes, your fellow soldiers die and capturing 
 Gordon Freeman, the infamous scientist from Half-Life, is no longer your primary concern. Survival 
 is.
  
  Opposing Force has a good story. It is cohesive with Half-Life's chain of events, yet isn't simply 
 a repetition of those incidents. Adrian Sheppard has his own story and adventure, though there 
 are some run-ins with Half-Life's characters and occurrences! I won't give away too much, but there 
 are several locations you should easily recognise from Half-Life, and a run-in with one character 
 who should immediately spring to mind!
  
  Graphics and sound have had no real improvements, which is disappointing, though this is nothing 
 to worry about, as the game still looks and sounds fantastic. 
  
  Gameplay is what really counts, and Opposing Force is a memorable and exciting game to play. You 
 can now command a squad of allies, including security guards, medics, heavy gunners, engineers 
 and other grunts, whereas in Half-Life you only had normal security guards to assist you. There 
 are several new enemies, including a new breed of aliens called Race X. Combat is still very fun, 
 and AI is especially good! Some firefights are classic moments, you'll want to play them again 
 and again!
  
  As far as expansion packs go, Opposing Force is prodigious. This would have been an excellent stand 
 alone game as well. 
  
  Opposing Force is a must, not just for fans of Half-Life, but for any great game lover. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flinx1000
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 5, 2005 6:38 pm PT
Review:  I recieved this as a gift for Xmas, and couldn't wait to get home, install, and get down to business 
 with it. Having already mastered Half Life at the difficult level, I started at the same. I was 
 quickly into the game, but was disappointed to discover that it was merely an extension of Half 
 Life, and an hour in, I was finding it less challenging than it could have been. The problem-solving 
 aspect was fairly routine, nothing new or unusual or brainteasing; the alien characters acted/reacted 
 predictably (although the addition of a couple of new aliens and their weapons was refreshing) .
 
  Overall, it was a fun experience, taking a fraction of the time to complete as the first time 
 I played Half Life, but it could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genisk02
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 16, 2005 2:39 pm PT
Review:  Opposing Force is a must-buy, it's the greatest expansion pack for the greatest game -- This would 
 be Half-Life. Half-Life was long, fun and it's quite a challenging game. Half-Life: Opposing Force 
 isn't as long -- Think about it, it's only an expansion pack, but this doesn't mean a single thing. 
 The graphics are just as great as Half-Life's ever were, there's a ton of new weapons added in 
 ( Some cool Alien Weapons ) as well as new enemies -- There's a nice, fun war going on in OppFor, 
 and it's always making you want to ask for more.
  
  You'll begin the game as Adrian Shepard, I recall this being his name, so you can correct me if 
 I'm wrong, hmm. You'll notice right away that it's tough being the bad guy, you'll begin in boot-camp 
 which would basicly be training, it's something to warm you up before going out into the real world. 
 You'll be running around into new rooms picking up your equipment such as weapons and charges for 
 your green vision, something that's taking place for the Flashlight. It's a bit blind-ish, but 
 it's easier than having to always point the Flashlight in every direction to see what's up ahead, 
 now the vision will take up the whole screen, making it alot more of an easier job. There's a new 
 HUD, this is something that you can't miss. Now, for the more mature grunt-ish look, it's a lazer-like 
 green font -- It's probobly the best I've seen, and just like Half-Life, the Heads Up Display is 
 perfectly fine, nothing get's in my way.
  
  The graphics to this day are nothing compared to Half-Life 2 or Doom 3, but when you take the time 
 to check them out really hard, the graphics are very decent for an old game. Obviously, you can't 
 forget about the part where these graphics were the best we've since back in the 1990's, there's 
 nothing to disagree about. It's neat to see more of Black Mesa, it wasn't only good to re-visit 
 it since I had beaten Half-Life, but it's more fun in OppFor. It's not as challenging to get through 
 since there's by far not as many challenges or puzzles that Half-Life's side of Black Mesa had, 
 but there's quite a few to make it interesting and enjoyable. The gameplay is more improved, not 
 only because of the massive, massive new arsenal you'll have acquired ( There's tons, and I mean 
 tons of weapons in this game ) , but there's more war going on outside, actually. There's some big 
 enemies you'll come across that you'd never see in Half-Life, even though it's meant to be that 
 they were all there at the same time, it's just happening on the other side of Black Mesa through 
 the eyes of Adrian's. You'll be fighting Black Ops this time, instead of being Gordon Freeman against 
 the grunt forces, your basicly bad guys against bad guys in my opinion, that's how I seem to see 
 it, anyway.
  
  For it's length, I'd say OppFor was around 8 hours long for me. I rushed in a bit, but I did take 
 my time trying to find all of the weapons and med packs along the way to keep myself alive -- Still, 
 8 hours or less, it's quite long for an expansion pack. Even though it's old-school at the moment 
 and always will be, it's good to give it a try, I'd recommend buying it on Steam if you've yet 
 to purchase it all these years. Overall, Half-Life's expansion pack, Half-Life: Opposing Force 
 is a great game that anybody should play if their a fan of the FPS genre, expecially -- And no doubt, 
 and I'm serious -- If they've played and completed Half-Life, one of my favorite games.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 11, 2005 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life: Opposing Force is much better than the other Half-Life expansion, Blue Shift, which 
 says a lot, because I enjoyed Blue Shift a great deal. Opposing Force feels more serious, and intense, 
 plus it offers a longer single-player campaign, even more varied levels, and more notable weapons. 
 The military training tutorial is outstanding. Obviously inspired by Full Metal Jacket, I found 
 it hilarious.
  
  The SAW light machine gun, and that blue alien thingy that recharges itself (and makes mincemeat 
 of the troublesome black operations troopers) are outstanding. Too bad the sniper rifle, introduced 
 very late in the game, is useless, because I didn't have one opportunity to use it. Maybe it was 
 intended for online multiplay.
  
  The graphics are long in the tooth, to say the least, but that doesn't prevent Opposing Force from 
 being playable, and extremely fun. It's nice to experience the Half-Life story from the "enemy" 
 perspective, even though you can play your Marine character as a nice guy (by refraining from killing 
 scientists and security guards) .
  
  The going gets tough near the end, but not impossible, so the typical game developer "gotcha" frustration 
 factor is happily missing. I can't think of anything to gripe about. Opposing Force simply offers 
 everything that made the original Half-Life great -- they even fixed the Zen level jumping puzzles! 
 I've sold or traded many games, but Opposing Force will remain in my collection forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeekikleen
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 31, 2004 12:38 am PT
Review:  Half-Life revolutionised FPS gaming with one of the best single-player experiences ever and amazing 
 multiplayer components due to a solid mod community. Its expansion pack only reinforces Half-Lifes 
 style of storytelling as immersive and therefore does not disappoint. Opposing Force puts the player 
 in the role of an elite commando pursuing Gordon Freeman, hence the title: Opposing Force. From 
 a narrative perspective, this retells the events from the first game through the eyes of someone 
 completely different  and does so outstandingly. Various hints throughout the game provide the 
 player a point of reference vis -- vis the original game adding to both context and excitement. 
 Only could a game with the quality of Half-Life have its story told twice and still be as thrilling 
 as the first time. 
  
  Some key additions include night-vision, and some new weapons. The most interesting new weapon 
 is the teleportation gun that lets one cross over to Xen for some much needed healing. Other than 
 that, the technical aspects such as graphics and sound are of good quality.
  
  Half-Lifes first expansion pack does not feel like a mission pack  in fact, its story and length 
 are comparative to some current FPS games as modern shooters have seemed to adopt an average gameplay 
 length of about 6-10 hours. Its level design varies just enough to keep the player interested and 
 one noticeable improvement over Half-Life is the exclusion of a Xen-like jumping puzzle. Furthermore, 
 it includes some interesting boss levels that mix up the pace of the game much like the original. 
 Half-Life: Opposing Force is an exceptional expansion pack to an exceptional game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SQUILTHEONE
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 5, 2004 11:18 am PT
Review:  you really have to think when you play this game. if yiou dont think you will not do good. its 
 got really funny looking aliens too and its a l-o-n-g game it itook me forever to beat it
  this is a must have game. The controls are unbelievably good despite the game being converted from 
 the pc. you will lose any positive feedback associated with the review. We encourage you to write 
 your review in a word processor or text editor, This game just has that kind of a feeling where 
 you know it is only gonna get bette. You don't know what is going to happen next which is good 
 and the game doesn't feel too long or too short.
  
  -squil-
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darth-revan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 27, 2004 11:01 pm PT
Review:  ive played many expansion packs and games over the years but never have seen an expansion better 
 than most other games. opposing force (op force for short) is an expansion to do justice to the 
 best game of all time. this game wasnt just thrown togethor from crap. put u in gordans shoes again, 
 no, instead it let you play as a marine sent in to kill gordan. this also shows parts to plots 
 half life never did. most expansions just have a few thrown togethor bits of the original and a 
 few months in development and voila you have an expansion. but gearbox went the extra mile and 
 did something awsome. but whats the bad part of this expansion? well its a year after the original 
 came out so naturally the graphics that werent perfect before still arent. and the sound in some 
 senses isnt as polished as it could be. the length is good and the multiplayer will keep you going 
 longer with more player models and game modes the ending of the came isnt as good as it could be 
 after all when you fight the final boss and *** *** *n a ***** t** *-*** *** *** w***** t******o** 
 ***** *** ******* *****. now decifer that if you can and thats the ending. now why would i have 
 you decifer that at all? well the game is really damn hard. so if you give up there is the dissapointing 
 ending that happens to adrien shepperd. however the plot forces you fight on. now after all that 
 the game is still the best damn expantion pack ive ever played. when you play this game remember 
 this.
  
  .Good luck Soldier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: youngbloodza
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 18, 2004 3:12 am PT
Review:  This game gives you a glimpse of what the grunts had to go through whiule Gordon went through grunts 
 and aliens alike. You play the role of Adrian Shephard, a marine that was sent to clean up the 
 Black Mesa, to clean up the mess that the scientists built. From the beggining, there's action. 
 Your helicopter is attacked by the xen airships and you crash. Also there's a mix of action and 
 puzzle. Some of the puzzles are very simple while otheres are a little harder. The expansion introduces 
 a bunch of new weapons like A heavy Machine gun, Instead of that fly shooter, you get an electric 
 shooter that the shock troopers use. You also get a desert eagle that has lazer sight and barnacle 
 gun, which has use for both puzzles, and action. There are also new aliens, like voltigores, who 
 are gaping monsters that can kill you in less then 4 shots. pit drones, which are swift and fast, 
 and shoot stingers. The ffiendly A. I is pretty useless, for they cannot climb or jump over obstacles, 
 and they get in oyur way ALOT, also theyll be behind you and there spread shot will hit you and 
 youll die. Also there were a bit of bugs like mounted guns and such. IN this game, you'll find 
 some twists that you'll like and black ops, who have good AI. Theyll run away if injured, but throw 
 grenades if you hide. Also they. ll flank you and use tactics like running from behind. This game 
 wont take you much time at all, but its still worth the steam cache :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megazorro1615
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2004 3:37 pm PT
Review:  Explanation of the game: Half life Opposing force is sort of missioned based, but not exactly, 
 in this game you have to know where to go and how you have to go to achieve your purpose. The game 
 starts off as a group of military men, who are sent to battle but get attacked by an alien spacecraft. 
 Then you start playing as someone named shepard or something like. as you make your way through 
 the game's difficulty level and you keep uncovering secrets that reveal and will help you achieve 
 your purpose, the game starts to get really good.
  
  Review: Of course as you may know, in a computer, a game doesnt seem to look as great as in other 
 consoles like the ps2 or the gamecube or the xbox, However, this game comes pretty close. graphics 
 8.8/10, they look like the graphics from red faction but i bit more messed up or blurry. the game 
 play is truly a 9.3 out of 10 because of all the things you can do like kill aliens, hide, and 
 many other things. sounds, they are good but not great. the explosions are the ones that sound 
 really good
  
  Surroundings: the surroundings of opposing force are awesome, sometimes you may see a spacecraft 
 crashed on the floor or sometimes you may see some vehicles stop or being operated by enemies or 
 sometimes you may see your own team's vehicles destroyed. there are blown up buildings with cracks 
 all over the walls. there are hidden places for weapons and many other things. also sometimes you 
 may see factories and labs where some aliens are being studied.
  
  Teams or help in the game: In opposing force there are teams that sometimes on some missions that 
 you have to do help you and that also fight with you. Among this team, there's a medic, an engineer 
 that opens looked doors, and two other soldiers which have very nice weapons to defend themselves 
 with. their comments are so good. they may say "let's go" or "move in". those comments are really 
 good and when they're dying or about to die, they may say "you're gonna have to do this one your 
 own" or something like that.
  
  Enemy's Artificial Intelligence and weapons: this is truly the best part of the whole game combined. 
 the aliens are very smart in this game. in other games, the enmy usually comes running towards 
 you and starts hittting you, However, in this game they dont go after you, instead they stay where 
 they are and wait for you to come back. everytime they hit you they make a noisy or sound. many 
 of them have the ability to appear and disappear. when they appear, you may see like a thunder 
 or some electricity and you may hear a sound. Dont get me wrong here, in this game you not only 
 see aliens you also see humans that are your enemies and they also have incredible artificial intelligence, 
 sometimes they might shoot you, and then they would run away, but if you are really close to them, 
 they'll stay next to saty and never stop shooting. the weapons are awesome, truly beautiful, there's 
 a pistol, a gun which has like a red light that points right to where you are aiming (dont know 
 what it is called) , there's a bazooka, there's also grenades, knife, and a crowbar. there's more 
 but i dont remember the other ones.
  
  Conclusion: i recomend this game to anyone that wants to kill aliens and really wants to play in 
 a game where artificial intelligence is crucial. the game is really good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visi0naries
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 15, 2003 8:54 am PT
Review:  Half-Life was released quite some time ago, and fans of the Half-Life game wanted an expansion 
 pack of it. They finally got their wish when the release of Half-Life: Opposing Force went on shelves. 
 This is where the fun began for many, many people who've been wanting a new challenge that had 
 the same aspects as the original Half-Life.
  
  Opposing Force was released about 2 or 3 years ago, and it was a straight out expansion pack for 
 Half-Life. You take the role of Adrian Shepard, and you follow the story of the marines going into 
 the Black Mesa Facility. You'll also be commanding your own comrades in the game and you will tell 
 them what to do so you can move on. It's basically has the same gameplay elements as Half-Life, 
 only from a different perspective.
  
  The beauty of the game lies in the gameplay. It has Half-Life's gameplay, along with some new multi-player 
 action. The multi-player mode is fun at first, but it might not be worth your time since it's basically 
 just a straight out deathmatch like Half-Life's multi-player. If you played Half-Life's multi-player, 
 you won't really find anything new in Opposing Force's multi-player except some new weapons and 
 new levels... and that's just about it.
  
  The single-player mode will definitely keep you busy for as long as you play it. It has the same 
 aspects that brought Half-Life into what it is today. The gameplay may seem a bit "old" because 
 the engine is basically the same, but there is definitely some fun that you will experience during 
 the time you play the game.
  
  It would of been nice for Gearbox or Sierra to improve the graphics over the original Half-Life 
 so it can be best suited for playability. Also, hearing the sound of aliens groaning can get cheesy 
 and annoying at times, but everything else is great in terms of the sound.
  
  Another flaw of Opposing Force is the game's length. It is incredibly short and it definitely doesn't 
 last as long as Half-Life's story. It is very possible to beat the game in one sitting if you know 
 where your going. Your also going to have to deal with some familiar monsters and aliens in the 
 game, when you hoped for extra and new monsters.
  
  Overall, Half-Life: Opposing Force could of been a much better game. If Sierra or Gearbox worked 
 on the single-player mode more harder and thorough, Opposing Force could of been a great game. 
 With that said, Opposing Force does offer some fun action like the new (not brand new) multi-player 
 mode and some minor/major changes. If you're a huge fan of Half-Life, this is the game to own, 
 if not, you wouldn't have a heart attack if you could give this game a try and decide for yourself. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
