-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Half-Life 2: Episode One
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/halflife2aftermath/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Exciting and fast-paced action ride with some of the best Half-Life gameplay to date.
 New team dynamic is fun and a welcome change of pace from the traditional lone-wolf gameplay.
 Sharp writing, witty dialogue, and some of the best characters in a game.
 Top-notch production values from the still-impressive Source engine.
 Hollywood-quality voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Incredibly short, featuring only four to six hours of gameplay.
 No new multiplayer content.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  1, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.7
Critic Score: 8.6, 65 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 7,653 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: Valve Software
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Jun 1, 2006 &raquo;  
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Episode One is even better than Half-Life 2. The only problem is that it's over before you know 
 it. 

  Few companies tease its customers as well as Valve. 1998's Half-Life ended on an intriguing note, 
 with series hero Gordon Freeman basically being "recruited" by the mysterious G-Man to work for 
 him as a dimension-hopping commando. But fans were really caught off guard by the ending of 2004's 
 Half-Life 2, as Gordon and ally Alyx Vance were caught in a massive explosion. Rather than have 
 us wait years and years for the outcome of that cliff-hanger, Valve has taken the series into episodic 
 territory to get us answers more quickly. Half-Life 2: Episode One is the first in a new trilogy 
 of episodes that are scheduled to be released over the course of the next year. (You don't need 
 to own Half-Life 2 to play Episode One, as it's a stand-alone product, though it would definitely 
 help if you did.) And Episode One is a memorable romp through the Half-Life universe, with gameplay 
 that's even more satisfying than that of Half-Life 2. The only downside is that, due to its episodic 
 nature, it's over far too soon.  

          Gordon Freeman is back in action, with Alyx by his side, in Episode One, the first of a 
 trio of episodes that continue the Half-Life story.     

  Unfortunately, Valve's storytelling remains about as cryptic as ever. The episode starts off on 
 a wrong note, as there's an incredible cop-out to explain how Gordon and Alyx survive the explosion 
 and how the G-Man gets knocked out of the picture, but it gets a lot better after that. Rest assured, 
 answers are finally given, but keep in mind that new questions are raised, as well. Episode One 
 is about the escape from City 17. Though the quisling Dr. Breen was defeated in Half-Life 2, the 
 Combine remain on Earth, cut off from their alien dimension. Now, with the Citadel reactor on overload, 
 it's a battle to escape the ruins of the gutted Citadel and the city itself. Of course, that's 
 easier said than done, and you'll once again be plunged along a tightly controlled and highly scripted 
 ride filled with a fair share of ups and downs.  

  Half-Life has always been a mix of combat and puzzle-solving, but the formula feels honed to a 
 razor's edge in Episode One, as Valve seems to have designed content that's geared toward Half-Life 
 veterans. The puzzles and battles seem even more complex and challenging. In fact, the best encounters 
 in the game require a mix of puzzle-solving and combat as you desperately fight to stay alive long 
 enough to figure out what you need to do next.  

  There's a wonderful new team dynamic at work in Episode One, thanks to the fact that Alyx battles 
 alongside you throughout most of the episode. After playing on your own throughout Half-Life and 
 Half-Life 2, it's refreshing to have a companion by your side, and Valve takes advantage of this 
 by throwing you into situations where you must rely on teamwork to survive. Alyx is a capable assistant 
 (perhaps almost too capable, since it's pretty tough to kill her off, and she seemingly has unlimited 
 ammo) , and she's often the difference between victory and defeat in many encounters, as she'll 
 cover your back while you're busy trying to sort out the puzzle.  

          Alyx introduces a new team dynamic for Half-Life, such as when you have to illuminate her 
 targets for her in the dark.     

  Spending so much time with Alyx has other upsides, as well. The flirtation between Alyx and Gordon 
 continues even further, and while it's a bit strange that it's such a one-sided relationship (thanks 
 to Gordon, again, never uttering a single word) , you still get a feeling of warmth and affection. 
 There's lots of humor, as well, as Episode One features some sharp and witty dialogue uttered by 
 Alyx and other familiar faces. Barney and Alyx's robotic Dog are back, as well as Eli Vance (Alyx's 
 father) and the ever-hilarious Dr. Kleiner. Valve's impressive facial animation is still incredible, 
 and you really get the sense that you're interacting with believable characters in the game. Of 
 course, it also helps that the voice acting remains top-notch. Robert Guillaume, Michelle Forbes, 
 Merle Dandridge (Alyx) , and the original voice cast remain the same.  

  This sense of familiarity has its downsides, as well. For instance, though extremely well done, 
 the environments of the Citadel and City 17 were already explored in Half-Life 2, so you may find 
 yourself encountering moments of deja vu as you battle through the episode. Your arsenal of weapons 
 also remains unchanged. The versatile gravity gun gets heavy use through the episode, and it's 
 invaluable to solving the many environmental puzzles in the game, but other than that, you're packing 
 the same assortment of pistols, rifles, and grenades as before. It's also worth noting that there 
 are no vehicle sequences in Episode One. That's not exactly a bad thing, though, as the vehicle 
 sequences in Half-Life 2 felt fairly linear and dragged on for too long.  

  In terms of opponents, you do get glimpses of challenging new foes that are coming up in future 
 episodes, but for the most part, the enemies remain the same from Half-Life 2, including the head 
 crabs, zombies, Combine soldiers, striders, and so on. The Combine troops do seem to have some 
 new abilities, such as the ability to rappel down buildings right in front of you. They're also 
 a bit smarter, as they seemed to utilize cover better than they did in Half-Life 2, but you don't 
 really get the sense of squad coordination that was seen in the original Half-Life. The only memorable 
 new opponent is the zombine, a Combine zombie, and these guys quickly become your first target 
 when they appear on the scene, thanks to the fact that their favored tactic is to charge you with 
 a live grenade in hand.  

          Battles can get crazy, but with Alyx covering your back, there's nothing that you can't 
 do.     

  Visually, Episode One introduces a lot of subtle improvements and enhancements in the Source engine, 
 keeping it in line with video-card developments over the past couple of years. The new high-dynamic 
 range lighting technology (seen only if your video card supports it) makes a big difference, as 
 the outdoor scenes look a lot better, while indoor scenes feature impressive shadowing and atmosphere 
 at times. Some of the textures in the game have been increased considerably, notably on Alyx and 
 the other main characters, and the game looks incredibly sharp.  

  When you get down to it, the only major complaint about Episode One is that it's over so quickly. 
 There are only four to six hours of gameplay, and veteran first-person shooter fans will definitely 
 find themselves at the lower end of that range. Episode One does ship with the two existing Half-Life 
 2 multiplayer modes, but if you own Half-Life 2 already, you already have those. Finally, the game 
 does include a developer commentary system of sorts, similar to the one used in the PC version 
 of The Chronicles of Riddick, and that does provide some interesting insight into the development 
 of the game (though the rehearsed nature of the developer dialogue makes it sound more like a lecture 
 than a proper commentary track) . But apart from that one unique feature, the only thing truly new 
 in Episode One is the single-player story. Before you know it, you've escaped from City 17, the 
 credits are rolling, and you're left wanting more. So in a way, Valve has teased us once again, 
 though the bright side is that we don't have to wait long for the next set of answers to be found 
 in Episode Two, which is due out around the end of the year.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (492 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: FabulousGamer90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 3:46 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2: Episode One, marks the start of Valve's rather rocky journey into episodic content. 
 The game carries on where Half-Life 2 left off; so without giving the ending of Half-Life 2 away, 
 the goal is now to journey back through City 17 and escape. This time around, however, the supporting 
 character Alyx accompanies you through the whole journey, providing this instalment with a refreshing 
 sense of teamwork which Half-Life hasn't really had before now.
  
  It's implemented to Valve's usual exceptional standards, with Alyx being very able and agile, while 
 still remaining a character you feel compelled to protect. The game taking place with her by your 
 side allows you to develop a much stronger relationship towards her. Though it may sound an annoyance 
 to have an AI follower all the time, she never gets in your way, and makes the experience all the 
 more immersive.
  
  The game takes you through some of the underground and then into the depths of the city, and to 
 the trains to escape. Much of the environments this time are a lot darker in the first half of 
 the game, there aren't a great many updates, except for the addition of a new type of zombie; and 
 most of the game takes place in areas we've already been before, just different parts of those 
 areas. Obviously being episodic content, it's also very short, spanning 4 hours at the very most. 
 However, it's still the same fast faced, exciting action that you've come to expect from a Half-Life 
 game, and the advancements to the story along with the new teamwork addition should be enough to 
 love the game if you loved Half-Life 2; and it's definitely worth the very small price its offered 
 for on Steam.
  
  Valve promised a new episode every 6 months or less; however, what we've been seeing are release 
 dates twice as far apart as they promised us. While it's hugely disappointing, I don't think it's 
 a betrayal on Valve's part, and merely an example of how oblivious they are to how long it takes 
 them to make a game. But, the episodic idea doesn't impress me even when it's implemented correctly. 
 It just means we get more and more cliff-hangers; and Valve have messed it up by not giving us 
 what they promised. Resulting in what is probably their biggest mistake yet. Either way though, 
 Episode One is a blast for the time it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Half Life has been one of my favorite FPS since the first one that I played in 2001 on the PS2. 
 Now with Half Life 2: Episode 1 it's still one of my favorites it's just a fantastic game that 
 offers an awesome story and a game that is simply a lot of fun.
  
  Things I like:
  The story it basically starts off from where you left off in Half Life 2, it's basically just as 
 good as it was in the first two game. It's one of the things I like so much about Half Life also 
 and you'll really enjoy it to. 
  
  The graphics look great which they also did in Half Life 2, that's basically what they look like. 
 Which that isn't a bad thing in my opinion. Because everything looks great from the environments 
 to all of the characters and enemies you will see.
  
  The gameplay is the same as it's always been nothing has been changed, would you want it to be? 
 I thank not because it's perfect the way it is right. The sound is also really nice like it has 
 been before.
  
  Thanks I didn't like:
  The biggest thing for me is the game is so short you can just fly through it. Which is something 
 that I didn't expect I thought it would of at least been longer than what it was.
  
  The AI is still like it was which I wish they would made it better, but at the same time that isn't 
 a big deal to me although it may be to some people.
  
  You face basically all of the same enemies, I guess like two new monsters that you will face. Which 
 that is another that isn't a big deal also.
  
  Overall half Life 2: Episode 1 is simply fantastic like I said I loved the first 2 and the same 
 goes for this one. It's to bad that it's so short it leaves me wanting more but o well, if you 
 liked the first 2 then you'll like this one just as much.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta_116326
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Episode One is a continuation of the Half-Life 2 storyline. Dr. Freeman si yet again a convict 
 of the surviving Combine Forces and with the help of Alex and the Resistance he must find a way 
 to get the message to white forest of an impending attack and its possible destruction.
  
  Just like its Predessesors the Engine of the game is top rate giving it lush toned graphics and 
 on the right computer a semless gameplay experiance. The weapons of the game are the same youve 
 seen it its original and can bring a whole new level of entertainment to the game as well as the 
 great and imfimous Crab-Head army of zombies to blast your way through.
  
  The game lacks a multi-player expansion of any kind but who cares. other than continuing the story 
 a new multi player would be pointless as its already perfected and sold seperatly.
  
  I Suggest this game to any Half-Life fan or Fans of Heavly story orriented Games or just plain 
 graphics loves because even after being a few years old its Graphics are still above average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingLim
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2009 4:12 pm PT
Review:  The game is great hands down, even if it's short, as the action is pretty neat and well-balanced. 
 I'm impressed with the way it forces you to use the grabber in the first stage to solve puzzles 
 and on the enemies and introduces back the better weapons one at a time though the original game 
 already does that. It's still refreshing since the level design is superbly done so you won't feel 
 the cliche. 
  
  Back to the puzzles, it again won my respect as there's still new ways for your grabber to interact 
 with new environment puzzles despite the first game already did so much with this feature. Other 
 than that, you get to fight a little of everything the first game threw at you, and you'll be too 
 engrossed to be amazed at how neatly Valve arranged their order of appearances. My favorite weapon 
 this time is the rocket launcher as at some stages, it lets you utilise its awesome firepower quite 
 heavily. 
  
  However, I'm sorry to say that STEAM spoilt my gaming experience by being awkwardly buggy in my 
 pc system. STEAM already screwed my Half Life 1 anthology gameplay but this time, it takes the 
 cake. It crashes my game frequently for whatever reasons, and messed around with my save games. 
 There are serious graphics and sound errors too sometimes. I had ok pc specs, like 2GB ram and 
 p4 3.2ghz, but I think it might be the viruses at work. Anyway, without the bugs, it will be a 
 short, engaging and superb gaming experience.
  
  KingLim 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sardinar
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  "We'll see... about that!" - Government-Man (G-Man)
  
  "Well, Gordon... unless you have a better suggestion... He is a robot. He's done the math... You 
 did do the math, right?" - Alyx Vance.
  
  After Vortigaunts have kidnapped our Freeman from G-mans 'bedroom' that G-man will have to see 
 about, we are teleported into a pile of solid debris (very nice) . Alyx Vance and Dog discover you 
 after having to do some trash work finding Gordon Freeman lying there like a lazy bum. Luckily 
 for us, we didn't have to wait another 6 years for Half-life 2 Episode 1 to be released, nor did 
 Gordon Freeman get to sleep another 20 years under G-mans lulls. You, Alyx and Dog get to some 
 broken TV to communicate with Eli and Dr. Kleiner. They tell you to get out, but you can't afford 
 it unless you slow down the core inside the citadel. Alyx is gonna accompany you throughout the 
 most of the game, Valve does a good job of making her personality amusing and sometimes even funny. 
 So, this is how Half-life 2 Episode 1 has started. If you started playing Half-life 2 Episode 1 
 without playing the original Half-life 2, I would consider that dumb because Episode 1 doesn't 
 give you time to learn. 
  
  
  STORY:
  
  So ya, we have started off right after the Half-life 2 ended. Storywise, it is just a continuation 
 of Half-life's series, it may not be as great as Half-life 2's story but you are gonna get to see 
 a Stalker up close. It doesn't mean repetitive or anything, It's still entertaining.
  
  The Good:
  1. Creates multiple cliff-hangers on to Half-life 2 Episode 2.
  2. Answers some 
 of Half-life 2 questions.
  3. Enemies sounds reflect on Half-life 2's backstory. (Feature of the game's predecessor, not a 
 big factor)
  
  The Bad:
  1. Some questions may still be unanswered, but they're much less and the problem itself is more 
 unnoticable this time (Not a big factor) .
  
  SOUND:
  
  Sounds stay perfect in Half-life 2 Episode 1, this time they're creepier, more alerting and terrifying. 
 Since some of the places will actually need your hearing capabilities greatly, sounds of this game 
 may be even better than Half-life 2's.
  
  The Good:
  1. Zombies in the Dark: You can hear em... but when the flashlight is out, it couldn't get anymore 
 terrifying.
  2. Since Alyx is around you alot, she jokes around thus putting a different flavor into the game. ("... Zombine, 
 get it?" - Alyx)
  3. Still the best voice acting.
  
  The Bad: Nothing much, Alyx' voice may get annoying to some real irritable people but yeah, nothing 
 much.
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  The gamestyle of Half-life 2 changes a bit in Episode 1. It has more puzzles and more indoor stuff. 
 Valve does a good job of not making the game repetitive so I am impressed. The fact that the game 
 is too short kinda disappoints me but the fact that it took only 2 years for the game to develop, 
 it seems fair. Just because fans craved for more merely spooked Valve to create smaller Episodes 
 instead of Half-life 3.
  
  The Good:
  1. More Puzzles!
  2. More Zombies/Antlions, less Combine!
  
  The Bad:
  1. Too short!
  2. You don't get weapons 
 early in the game.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Yes, the Graphics are noticably better than Half-life 2's but has some problems that may cause 
 some FramePS drops.
  
  The Good:
  1. It is not an expansion, it is a complete sole product - thus making the graphics better.
  
 2. Great Facial expressions in the game.
  
  The Bad:
  1. The part where you get to the core causes the FramePS to drop and may overload weak PCs.
  
 
  OVERALL:
  This is a pretty good followup to Half-life 2 but it is very short and may cause some FPS drops. 
 It has added some Puzzles to it and put more Zombies and Antlions into the game thus making it 
 less repetitive. The shortage of weapons at the start of the game confused me a bit but I know 
 it was for the sake of puzzles. It's a great game and should be played by anyone who liked Half-life. 
 I confess that this review isn't as good as the previous ones due to the fact that I wrote it at 
 not such a great time but meh, I tried.
  
  SCORE: I have had to combine Story and Sound factor into one due to the unbalanced overall score 
 afterwards - I am going to have to work on it sooner. 
  
  STORY: 10 GAMEPLAY: 8 GRAPHICS: 9
  
  OVERALL SCORE: 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toriko42
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 30, 2008 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2: Episode 1 improves on the original in a variety of meaningful ways. It removes the 
 tedious puzzling sequences of the original and instead puts more emphasis on platforming and intense 
 action. It also gives you the best moments of Half Life 2 condensed into a short package. There 
 is one problem with this though, game is far too short. With only 2-4 hours of gameplay Half Life 
 2: Episode 1, though worth playing for any fan of Half Life 2, is not worth buying alone. 
  
  The plot of Half Life 2: Episode 1 (Hereby known as Episode 1 in this review) is actually worse 
 then the original. There are no twists in it or any turns. All it does is explain how Gordon and 
 Alyx got out of their situation at the end of Half Life 2 and then details their escape from City 
 17. That is actually it. Character development of everyone but Alyx Vance is also non-existent. 
 Alyx though is well developed and it's a lot of fun playing through the whole game with her by 
 your side. She is a great AI partner and never gets in your way. There are also plenty of moments 
 where you will still be solo but Alyx is so well integrated it shouldn't cause you any problems.
 
  
  The gameplay this time around has shifted it's focus. In Half-Life 2 there was an immense build 
 up to the best action moments. There were also some annoying puzzling sequences such as the infamous 
 crane. Luckily those are done away with. Driving sequences have also gone and all story telling 
 is done on the fly in the action. This makes Episode 1 full of shooting, action, and platforming 
 which is much more intense this time around. This is a welcome change and because of this, Episode 
 1 does indeed have superior gameplay to Half Life 2. There are some creativity issues though, there 
 are no new weapons or enemies to play with this time around which is kind of disappointing. Even 
 more disappointing is the lack of a sniper... still. Alyx gets to use one, why can't I?
  
  The graphics have also received a tune up. Lighting effects are significantly improved and the 
 textures also look stronger (possibly due to the better lighting) . Facial animations and features 
 overall also look better. Barney for some reason though looked a bit muddy and so do some textures 
 but other then that the graphics are slightly improved. Sound is the same as in Half Life 2, same 
 sound effects, same strong voice acting, same awesome sound overall. There is more music though 
 and it's nice to have since the music is pretty good.
  
  Episode 1 won't amaze anyone who loved the original Half Life 2, in fact you might be disappointed 
 by how short it is. Despite this though it still has enough improvements to make it a great game 
 to play and an excellent addition to any Half Life fans collection. For an action filled experience 
 and a great game, you should give this game a chance though only after you play Half Life 2. 
 
  
  Pros: Alyx is a great AI partner, welcome emphasis on action, strong platforming, removed tediousness 
 and driving, slightly tweaked graphics for the better...
  
  Cons: ... except for the occasional muddy texture, poor character development of anyone else, lame 
 story, doesn't answer any questions from Half Life 2, too damn short
  
  Overall: A great addition to any Half Life fans collection
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rtssam
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  Ive been playing this on the 360 as part of the orange box and its been so far brilliant :D.
  
  The story pick up where half life 2 left off, the citidel core has been destroyed but before 
 it kills you and alex the g-man comes and say's that he'll give you favor, then it comes to a big 
 cliffhanger and thats where episode 1 comes in. Alex and d. o. g find you buried in rubble you awake 
 and see that most of the city is destroyed, you make contact with alex's dad and he tells you that 
 you MUST escape from city 17 and thats where episode 1 sets off
  
  The gameplay is near perfection. Mainly because of the great weapons for example the gravity gun 
 (can pick up small things and throw them) makes the combat intense and immersive, The gunplay is 
 top notch too for example you can sprint up to an enemy lighting fast and double barrel shotgun 
 them and all thats left is tons of blood spread across the wall which is immensly satasfying not 
 to mention fun. There are also puzzles which are few but are again satasfying. Every puzzle you get 
 stuck on has a easy solution and leaves you thinking "Why didn't i see that" or "Why didn't i do 
 that in the first place". Overall the gameplay lives up to its predossesor
  
  The presentation is also good, There's been improved lighting and charactor models which really 
 stand out at parts and a little more particle cap. That doesent mean that the rest of the game is 
 stale the game graphically was ahead of its time anyway so you'll still see the same high quality 
 textures as seen in half life 2.
  
  The sound is to be honest similar to half life 2. Which isint a bad thing because half life 2 had 
 great sound, however some new charactor and gun sounds would have been aprecciated. My only complaint 
 about the sound is the fact that when you get shot or you kill someone upclose theres a weird "BeeeeeeB" 
 noise, its not my xbox or anything its just something that happens and its anoyying at times but 
 DEFINATLY doesent ruin the game at all not nearly just a little annoying thing.
  
  Overall its a great game. HOWEVER my biggest complain is its length i completed it in 2 hours and 
 20 mins on medium difficulty it ends really soon and abruptly. But in the end its better to have 
 quality rather than quanitity so if you liked half life 2 you owe it to yourself to get this
  
  Gameplay-9.8
  Graphics-9
  Sound.8.5
  Value-5
  Story-9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrozenLiquid
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2008 3:39 am PT
Review:  In 2004, Half-Life 2 took the gaming industry by storm. With its polished gameplay, breathtaking 
 graphics, and excellent story telling, it received huge acclaim and an immense number of awards. 
 Two years later, Half Life 2: Episode One has come out to tell the fans what has happened to Gordon 
 Freeman and company. What we have is something well worth playing, but the initial shock has since 
 been lost.
  
  The story picks up right where Half Life 2 left off. As the reactor explodes, and time freezes, 
 Vortiguants appear to save Gordon and Alyx from a session with the G-Man. You end up dazed just 
 outside the Citadel, and reunite with Alyx not too soon. As one of the few rebels still in City 
 17, Dr. Breen asks to hold off the imminent explosion of the Citadel so that you can escape safely. 
 That means a trip back to the Citadel you just came from, and a few more interesting revelations. 
 Sadly, there are no answers to previous questions. The previous Half-Life games were incredibly 
 thin on plot, but despite its episodic nature, Episode One possibly has a richer story (a segment 
 of the "Aftermath" plot) than any of the previous chapters, and it's one very short game. There 
 are many times where you'll be just watching events unfold without ever pressing a button. It's 
 not desirable in a video game, but Valve have a way of keeping you engaged. Episode One is definitely 
 their best effort yet. You will feel very involved with what's happening around and, as well as 
 craving interaction from Alyx. More on her later.
  
  The gameplay has not changed from Half-Life 2. There is a mix of action-oriented sequences and 
 physics-based puzzles fans can see from a mile away. It's as if Valve has acknowledged that your 
 perception of video game physics has changed from amazing novelty to standard implementation, because 
 you get the Gravity Gun almost straight away. You will primarily be using the Gravity Gun for half 
 the game, but the rest of Half-Life 2's arsenal will come pouring back in (some, such as the Roller 
 Mines, are retooled to help you this time around) . We've seen the gameplay all before though, and 
 since it has not significantly changed from the original Half-Life, we've been seeing this gameplay 
 for a very long time. On the bright side, what is there is around a decade's worth of polish, and 
 the mix of action and puzzles has never been better than in this game.
  
  Episode One uses a modified version of the Source Engine, which also powered the original game. 
 Unless you know the words "HDR" and "Phong shading", all you need to know is that Episode One looks 
 a bit better than Half-Life 2, which itself was ahead of its time in terms of photorealism. All 
 the MIDI sounds Half-Life fans have come to known are back in the game, and once again the minimal 
 use of forgettable music is strangely satisfying.
  
  Before I finish this piece, it is worth mentioning the genius that is Alyx Vance. Alyx was introduced 
 in Half-Life 2 as Eli Vance's kid, and in the few short hours this game holds, she truly makes 
 an impressionable mark right up until the end. She's the digital co-op buddy you've always wanted: 
 smart, sassy, and good-looking. She aids you like no other NPC has done before, and makes jokes 
 to make the journey that much more bearable (Episode One is truly melancholy) . There's a certain 
 thing she does in the underground when we faced off against a pack of zombies, which chilled me 
 to the bone then made me laugh a split-second later. It was quite possibly the single most greatest 
 moment in the Half-Life series, and you've got to experience it to believe it.
  
  What Valve has done has been worth their experience as FPS developers. The biggest gripe is that 
 it does not introduce anything new, to the point of even recycling some old aspects. To add insult 
 to injury it's a very short ride, but with that being said its a must for any Half-Life fan, and 
 worthy of any gamer with an itchy trigger finger. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zarden
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2: Episode 1 continues the story line, which began in the original Half-Life 2. You play 
 as Dr. Gordon Freeman and are accompanied by Alyx Vance, an ally met during the events of Half-Life 
 2. The episode follows our heroes as they struggle to escape the decaying City 17.
  
  Game play is the same tried and true method as previous Half-Life titles. If you have any experience 
 with the franchise, then you already know what you're in for. Ambush attacks from Combine forces, 
 Zombies lurking in the darkness, and Antlions swarming from they're burrows, are all par for the 
 course here. Unfortunately, combat while entertaining, doesn't really do much to distinguish itself 
 from other first person shooters. Or even for that matter distinguish itself from the original 
 Half-Life 2. 
  
  A huge plus for Episode 1 is Alyx Vance. Alyx is with Gordon through out the vast majority of the 
 episode, only leaving when a boss must be defeated or puzzle completed. This gives the game an 
 incredible sense of camaraderie that wasn't felt in Half-Life 2. It also aids in building Alyx's 
 character into a believable part of the story. Alyx is what makes Episode 1 what it is; her character 
 makes the game whole. Her charm, wit, intelligence and constant praise of the player makes the 
 trip through the episode that much more enjoyable. 
  
  Honestly, the only major flaw I can find with Episode 1 is its length. The game contains only five 
 chapters, each take about an hour to complete. Add it all up and you can most likely finish the 
 game in five to six hours tops. For a lack of better words, that's just not enough game to warrant 
 a solo release. For me, the game really just serves as a set up for later installments of the series. 
 As such, I couldn't find any real answers to the questions I had about the Half-Life 2 universe.
 
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode 1 does exactly what it's supposed to do, pick up the storyline that began 
 in Half-Life 2. It also helps to continue build the relationship between Gordon and Alyx through 
 classic teamwork and co-op style battles. However, it's painfully short experience leaves players 
 only wondering, as it doesn't really answer any questions. Still, Episode 1 delivers an excellent 
 adventure along side Alyx that is must for all fans of Half-Life despite its shortcomings. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaskaville
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  The Good: Great characters, revolutionary story, great weapons, modern graphics, not scary, so 
 realistic.
  
  The Bad: To much problem solving, pathetic online play.
  
  I'm really impressed with this game great job. How does Zombies fit into this game I wounder? In 
 my opinion they don't they just put them there to give the extra thrill to the game and hey it 
 payed off. I hate it when the Zombies have to get the grenades out and charge at you and your cornered 
 in and then you die, I hate that. The graphics are so realistic because in your usual game if you 
 shoot an enemy down and he dies he disappears into thin air but in this game if you do the same 
 he doesn't disappear so two thumbs up on the graphics. Brilliant characterization, except you can't 
 see the character your playing, Alyx is so hot. This is my first Half-Life game and I don't understand 
 the story very well because I didn't start off at the first game so o well. The online play just 
 made me want to gag because the chat room is uncensored, the other players avatars pause in place 
 every second, + there are a bunch of perverts in the chat room (No offense) , you don't want to 
 know what there were talking about. Ether than the online play it's a perfect game, 1.0- Online 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gears80
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2008 10:44 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed playing through episode one. As a continuation from Half- Life 2, it lives up 
 to its predecessors success very well. 
  
  Source has never looked so good, with HDR lighting technology being the booster shot it really 
 needed to be pretty outside scenes involving water. It is still kind to slower systems, and unless 
 you are running it on something very anemic you should have no trouble whatsoever. On a XFX 8600GT 
 XXX edition it ran as smooth as silk, but the many load times are still slightly frustrating, but 
 that is more anticipation of what is going to happen next rather than the games fault.
  
  Spending more time with Alyx is great and her charecter receives much more development than in 
 HL2 . She is rarely not by your side unless you are solving one of the episodes many enjoyable 
 co- operative puzzles. These almost never feel formulaic, with clearing Alyx a line of sight for 
 her mounted sniper rifle an example i particularly enjoyed. The Ant- lion puzzles are repeated 
 a little too often, however. You will see what I mean.
  
  There are a few disappointments, particularly about the length of the game which, if you are good, 
 can last only one sitting. To be fair, this is exactly what Valve promised with its shift towards 
 episodic development, but if you purchased it with the Orange Box, you have nothing to complain 
 about. The other qualm is that it really does not take you anywhere new, as many of the areas in 
 city 17 will be instantly recognisable to anyone who has played the previous game. Ditto the lack 
 of vehicles, which were a highly entertaining new facet to Half Life added by HL2. All of these 
 issues are solved by Episode 2, which is personally my favourite of the two episodes. There is 
 really no point to buying Episode One if you do not own Half Life 2, as there is no introductury 
 moive clip a la Episode 2 that will fill you in on the events of the previous incarnation of the 
 series. There are many points in buying the Orange Box however. Through Steam, it is great value, 
 and the Half Life 2 series, Portal and TF2 are a gamers paridise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xipotec
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Overall this is a cood continuation for the series . Graphics: impressive as always. The new aresa 
 were nicely presented.
  Gameplay: This is where things got muddy , For a newer game this was too linear for me. I would 
 love to see more open maps for Hl in the future.
  
  There was little replay value here and overall its expensive. If you take into account all the 
 money you will spend for each episode and add it up, it will be much more expensive then a regular 
 game of similar length. I am willing to overlook these few flaws because it iIS HALFLIFE! Its like 
 visiting an old friend and there is real notalgia there. I personally would like to see a few new 
 surprises in the next episode besides a new gun or vehicle.
  If you like the HALF LIFE world and want a bit more this should keep you going for a while. But 
 to me it feels liek an expansion pack and not much else ...... YET! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somadude
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 19, 2008 2:03 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 8/10
  The superb gun combat and puzzles are all here in full form but the lack of any vehicle sequence's 
 make Episode one feel a little empty in spots. Luckily Episode one has amzing urban combat that 
 is very enjoyable.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  Again Half Life 2 has some of the best graphics around and Episode one only mproves the already 
 amazing graphics fueled by valves "Source" engine.
  
  Sound 10/10
  Wow just wow, Episode one is just as well voiced as the orignal Half Life 2 and that alone makes 
 it amazing.
  
  Value 7/10
  Sadly the game is over in around 5 hours and though it's replayable it's not as memerable as te 
 original HL2.
  
  The good 
  Its Half Life 2s combat in full form, graphics are still stunning, sounds even better.
  
  The 
 bad 
  WAY to short, no vehicle seqences cause some pacing issues, not as memerable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: honkyjoe
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  The adventures of Gordan Freeman, Alyx vance, and D0g continue with this add on pack.
  
  Gameplay-
  The gameplay of HL2Ep1 remains the exact same as Half Life 2. This is an excellent 
 thing because Half Life 2 has such amazing gameplay. The new puzzles are fun and engaging. There 
 are very small things added to add to the experience. The enemies seem smarter to begin with. In 
 Half Life 2 the AI was very advanced but in Ep1 the enemies seem to work together much much more. 
 This is a good thing because they aren't extremely hard to take down but it makes you have to work 
 a little more to get your kills. Another cool thing is for part of the game your Gravity Gun becomes 
 ultra powerfull. I wont give away any more. Overall the gameplay of Ep1 is amazing and fun, just 
 like Half Life 2.
  Overall: 10/10
  
  Story/Characters-
  The story of Ep1 takes place mostly in the Ruined Citadel. The story is rather short which is a 
 letdown compared to the Original Half Life 2 story which seemed endless. Throughout the game you 
 will have your Heroine partner Alyx Vance to aid you in whatever needs aiding: P. She is just as 
 loveable as ever, as is her Robot named D0g. Ep1 is filled with new characters and creatures. I 
 wont give away anything else. the story of Ep1 is great but short and the characters are just as 
 amazing.
  Overall: 9.0/10
  
  Graphics/Sound-
  The music and sound in Ep1 is top notch. being in the broken Citadel you will hear buzzing and 
 ambience of a world in Chaos. The voice acting is still just as good as it always has been which 
 is excellent. The graphics are texturally better but the environments lack the feel of half Life 
 2. The run down cities and rural areas found throughout Half Life 2 have been replaced with black 
 and Gray walls which seem boring and plain. Though I didnt expect the Citadel to look like Disneyland 
 it wouldve been nice to spice up the environments just a little. Besides this everything else is 
 great.
  Overall:8.5/10
  
  Replayabilty/Multiplayer-
  Half Life 2: Episode 1 is a game you will be coming back to when you are in a mood to submerse yourself 
 into an amazing game. There is no Multiplayer but in a game like this it is not needed. I played 
 through Ep1 3 times the first week fiding new things and places.
  
  Overall game:
  Ep1 makes your half life experience even more full. It adds much more to the story and the gameplay 
 is as good as ever. I reccomend this to anybody who has Half Life 2.
  9.0/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleDuck
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 8, 2008 8:20 am PT
Review:  Recently I obtained The orange box. Instead of reviewing the whole thing though, I'm going to review 
 each game individually. Why? Because whilst the games update, it gives me something to do. 
  
  So episode 1. If (likely) you've played Half Life 2, then you will know that Mr Freeman is 
 back with face dude I can't ever remember the name of and we start with Mr Freeman escaping the 
 face man via teleportation, something I'd prefer to call cheating. From there on in, the game consists 
 entirely of narrow corridors and dark places, with low troop variety and puzzle variety. Pretty 
 much, as soon as you solve one task, you've solved them all. The games shortness is a major factor.
 
  
  Not to say this is a bad game. The action is good, but not hard, the weapons as we can all guess 
 from previous half lives are easy to use and when the characters talk about physics it is still 
 (most of the time) horrifically wrong. The games main object is to tease you into the second chapter 
 I feel, something it does well. But I do ask why do this. Look if you want this game, buy it, for 
 less than 5 due to it's low content, if you want to see half life run through it's last through 
 ever shortening half lives buy it. If you want a new game with flashy eager things, leave this 
 well alone.
  
  Also I've not said anything remotely funny in this. So errr.
  
  Bewbs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoAssKicker47
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 25, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Good:
  Excellent graphics and sound all-around; low system requirements; the coop nature of the campaign 
 is refreshing and unique; some excellent action courtesy of Combine forces; tight scripting keeps 
 things intense; humorous, witty dialogue; varied gameplay; developer commentary.
  
  Bad:
  Way, way too many zombies; quite short by genre standards, clocking in at five hours.
  
  
 
  *There are spoilers in this review*
  
  When Valve announced the idea of episodic content to continue the story Half-Life story, yours 
 truly here felt happy. No longer shall I wait another six years to get some answers! Valve continues 
 the series through a threesome of episodes, respectively named Episode One, Two and Three. Episode 
 One is a bit of a mixed bag, containing some excellent action and exhilarating set pieces, all 
 while providing a list of frustrating moments that are very disappointing considering the sheer 
 amount of talent this developer obviously has.
  
  As suggested, Episode One continues right where Half-Life 2 left off  right after disposing of 
 the gruesome Dr. Breen at the Combine citadel, Gordon Freeman and Alyx Vance are caught in a big 
 explosion, only to be frozen in time and saved by a group of Vortigaunts. A short conversation 
 with the G-man ensues and you eventually awaken within the crumbling bowels of the citadel, running 
 out of time before its core explodes and completely wipes out City 17. In Episode One, you, as 
 Freeman, and Alyx, must make your way through and out of City 17.
  
  Episode One is unique in that you are always accompanied by Alyx. She's an agile, durable young 
 lady who's just as useful as she is flirtatious. During the entirety of Episode One you'll grow 
 fonder or her as you progress since she's a very talkative character. You'll learn more about her, 
 other characters and even yourself just through her charming, continuous babbling. Beyond her ability 
 to keep things amusing, she's a handy little sidekick. Episode One has a tight dynamic between 
 Gordon and Alyx in that every fight is oftentimes also a puzzle which you'll try to solve while 
 Alyx covers your back. Other times you'll have to help her fight through waves of incoming enemies, 
 which leads to very tense moments as Alyx is relatively easy to kill. Whether you're blocking Antlion 
 burrows while she fires at them or running through the streets while she's providing covering fire, 
 the action in Episode One feels fresher and more unique thanks to this pair up.
  
  Other characters make a return, including the scratched-headed Barney Calhoun, Dr. Eli Vance and 
 Dr. Isaac Kleiner, who remains one of the most amusing characters in a game to date. The script 
 is just as good and witty as it was in Half-Life 2, helping the player grow connected to the characters 
 he struggles to protect. As you might expect  not many answers are given to the questions that 
 Half-Life 2's cliffhanger raised  but seeing as it's the first of three episodes, that's easy 
 to forgive.
  
  Episode One continues the nature of the Half-Life universe in that it's very scripted and highly 
 based on set pieces. Many of these are wonderful, with the best of them pitting you against the 
 Combine forces that dogged you throughout the original game. Two memorable scenes pit you against 
 the Combine war machines, the gunship and the strider, and the soldiers themselves seem to be a 
 bit on the smarter side this time around. However, there's one place where Episode One stumbles; 
 there is a surprisingly big amount of Zombies here. In fact, you'll spend the bulk of the game 
 fighting zombies in all forms, including a new Combine zombie, the Zombine, which might charge 
 you with a live grenade in its hand. The number of zombies here is so large you might be reminded 
 of the old Ravenholm, but while this part of the original HL2 was a novelty, acquainting you with 
 your gravity gun (which is, by the way, just as important in Episode One as it's ever been) , about 
 halfway through Episode One it gets a bit stale.
  
  This design decision is at its most questionable where you and Alyx need to fend off hordes of 
 Zombies while waiting for an elevator to descend, all in pitch blackness. This battle is about 
 twice as difficult as the turret fight in Half-Life 2 and marks an all-time low in the series. 
 Furthermore, the inclusion of the Zombines is often questionable, as most of the fighting takes 
 place indoors. You can snatch their grenade if you're quick enough with the gravity gun, but that 
 makes for some frustrating moments where the grenade goes off before you have a chance to fling 
 it somewhere else, more often than not killing you on the way.
  
  In terms of graphics and sound, there little in the way of improvements, which is a good thing 
 since the Source engine holds up very well. There is better support for anti aliasing and the game 
 makes great use of HDR effects, but the textures, models, animations and facial expressions remain 
 the same impressive ones they were in 2004. It also runs very smoothly on older hardware, which 
 is always a plus. The sound is also top-notch, but that's not very surprising since it was one 
 of the best aspects of the original game to begin with.
  
  Despite the fact that its numerous zombies might leave you feeling a bit frustrated by the end, 
 there are enough exciting events to keep you riveted all the way through. The excellent dynamics 
 between Gordon and Alyx give Episode One an extra edge, and the gameplay is just as varied as it 
 was in Half-Life 2. Of course, it helps that the graphics and sound effects are some of the best 
 that the genre has to offer. It may be on the shorter side of the fence, clocking in at about five 
 hours, but its density and content are far beyond impressive. Episode One is recommended to any 
 fan of first-person shooters and Half-Life in particular, and a worthy a addition to the greatest 
 first-person shooter franchise on the PC.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mivanc
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I beat half-life 2 a couple times waiting for the first expansion to come out. Eventually I found 
 the game for 10$ at a local Staples and decided it was worth the price. Its fun and enjoyable. 
 Continues the story and gives a bit more action alongside Alyx and Dog, which isn't a bad thing. 
 More fun with the gravity gun. I'l definitely replay it a couple times when going through the whole 
 series once EP3 comes out. HL2 is one of my favorite series of all time (as well as the orginal 
 HL)
  
  The only issue with the game, is how quick it ends. But that seems to be the nature of episodic 
 content courteousy of Valve. Its over in a flash. Definitely not worth spending more than 10$ for. 
 For someone who doesn't have any of the Half-Life 2 games, definitely get the Orange Box as its 
 included and probably worth buying that way. On its own, check your bargain bin.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pangster007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  Ahh, Half Life 2. Even though the game has been out for long time now, it was only last year or 
 so did i complete it. The timing at which I did so perfectly lent itself to the follow-up: "Half-Life 
 2: Episode 1" and "Half-Life 2: Episode 2" from the "Orange Box" compilation. The Orange Box itself 
 includes HL2 + Episodes 1, 2, and Portal, and Team Fortress 2. As an added bonus, my copy of the 
 OB included Counter Strike 1.6, awesome - except i'd probably not play it over my beloved CSS.
 
  
  There isn't all that much to say about this game after having reviewed HL2 because the games are 
 so similar. The continuation of HL2 - but split into a third portion - pretty much sums up what 
 Episode 1 is and with it, there is much criticism to be made from me. The story starts off from 
 the moment the citadel is being destoyed. After being teleported away from the explosions you caused 
 there (in the previous game) , you find yourself just outside of the citadel under some rocks. With 
 Dog and Alyx's help, you recover your gravity gun. The party is then informed that the breakdown 
 of the citadel could cause the entire destruction of City 17 much to the irony of the revolution 
 you wanted. With a new mission to stabilise the core, Gordon (yourself) and Alyx go back into the 
 fortress once again.
  
  The gameplay is directly derived from HL2 and would feel very familiar from after HL2. However 
 the episodic structure of the game has somewhat affected the pacing and overall experience in a 
 negative way. Because of the familiarity and the time since HL2, that 'Wow' factor has diminished 
 quite a bit. The finale is underwhelming of what is to be expected of HL, but is fitting for the 
 initial 3rd of a full game. Some weapons are missing like that alien-squishy-ball thing and the 
 overall pacing and structure of the game does not encourage the use of the variety of weapons you 
 do have (like the crossbow and magnum) . Every enemy has been seen before except for the flying 
 alien ship (which is the biggest highlight of the game imo) . And the overall open-air areas are 
 very much stifled in contrast to HL2 and it exerts very linear experience throughout. But that 
 is where HL2 excels at - the action and exhilaration that is borne out of that linearity.
  
  The visuals are solid but the art-direction is as compelling as ever. The game silky smooth 
 at super high resolutions, locking closely at 59-60 fps on my machine. The striking bloom effects 
 seem to have been upped alot, but does not look excessive at any time. The sound is also solid. 
 Explosions retain their 'deaf-ear' effect and distant exlosions have the familiar lagging boom 
 sound. The audio came out punctually in 6-channels and the music is varied well according the setting 
 and pace (from heart pumping beats, to eery atmosphere in the dark) .
  
  All the negativity i've come to say is not to be taken as what the game is all about. Rather, they 
 are the reasons why this episode does not stack up to the experience i had with HL2. Ignoring HL2, 
 Episode 1 is excellent. Overall, the game is excellent value in the compilation but you shouldn't 
 expect a full-fledged game. It doesn't do much new but helps extend the now-familiar HL2 gameplay, 
 which would be great for some, but may be disappointing for those who expected the series to keep 
 on going up and up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  Half-life 2 was one of my favourite games of all time, and as I played episode one I was pretty 
 sure this was going to be even better. And if it had been 3x's as long then yes..... It would have 
 been. The game won't make any sense at all if you haven't played half-life 2 previously. So all 
 in all episode one is amazing and besides being far FAR to short, it is a worthy addition to the 
 franchise. Besides there not being ANY vehicle sequeces that helped make half-life 2 soo amazing 
 and that it's over far too soon, there is NOTHING wrong with episode one. As long as you go into 
 episode one expecting a short game then you will probably be fully satisfied with it. Half life 
 episode one dose pretty much everything better then half-life 2. Except the previously noted problems. 
 So go out and buy it, it is worth the purchase price. Just make sure to play half-life 2 first, 
 because you'll be lost if you don't.
  
  Good: Slightly improves almost everything half-life 2 was.
  
  Bad: no vehicle sequences.
 
  One of the shortest games I have ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maluigi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 9:31 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Same lovable characters; awesome graphics; amazing shooter with a good amount of puzzles; 
 terrific voice acting and dialogue; great musical score.
  
  The Bad: It'll take you around 4-6 hours to finish the thing.
  
  Okay, this'll be a relatively 
 short review. Also, I'm fueling myself with diet coke and ice cream right now, (EXPLOSIVE COMBINATION!) 
 so if I go overboard, I apologize.
  
  In the previous game "Half-Life 2", Gordon Freeman (main character) and Alyx Vance (sexy sidekick) 
 had just been saved from an explosion in the Dr. Breens citadel by the vortigants, and a mysterious 
 man (dressed in a suit and holding a briefcase... like he's some kind of bigshot.... who does he 
 think he is? And why is he stalking Gordon and Alyx? Is he some kind of stalker who gets kicks 
 out of people fighting for their ****ing lives? Get a job!) . Once safely outside of the citadel, 
 Gordon is discovered by D. O. G underneath some debris. Once Alyx and Gordon regroup, they discover 
 that the citadel could blow at any moment... again. So the whole idea rotates around Alyx and Gordon 
 giving themselves, and some other people, a little more time so that they can escape from City 
 17 before it blows up.
  
  Now for the gameplay. Unlike the last game where, every time you got reunited with Alyx, you got 
 separated a couple of minutes afterwards by some really stupid event, this game rotates around 
 teamwork. Alyx has a handgun with unlimited ammo (greedy son of a *****, taking all of the ammo 
 for herself) , and is a big help when it comes down to you, her, and twenty antlions. The controls 
 are basically the same as the last game, and, yes, you still have the gravity gun. So, what's new? 
 Well... ummmm... you and Alyx working together is pretty much it... 
  
  The graphics still rock. They look the same as the last game, with a couple of tweaks to make certain 
 details stand out.
  
  The music and sounds are also awesome. Intense music kicks in at just the right time, and gunfire, 
 objects, and especially the voice acting, just sound amazing.
  
  Now for the games biggest, and only flaw: 4-6 hours of gameplay. I'm dead serious. That's not to 
 say that there's plenty of action, because there is. It's just strange that you're still gathering 
 weapons at the very last level of the game, and hardly ever get to use them. However, the game 
 does covers a lot of ground. It's just a shame that you'll beat the game the day you get it.
  
  Well, that's it. In short: It's an awesome game, but it only lasts about 4-6 hours, so.... I 
 don't know... I don't think you can rent PC games. Well.... buy the Orange Box, or play this game 
 at a friends house or something. If you're a huge fan of Half-Life, then go ahead and buy it, just 
 make sure that you buy a used copy at the lowest price possible. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anti18
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 left gamers clueless after it's cliff hanger ending. The game ended in the middle of 
 an explosion, leaving you wanting more. That style of ending has become all too familiar to Half 
 Life fans. Episode One picks off right after the explosion. You're main goal is to leave the city 
 before an mass explosion can claim your life. You play all of the game along with Alyx Vance. While 
 A. I. teammates may have been an annoyance in Half Life 2, Alyx is a helpful companion throughout 
 Episode One. Graphically, the game has been facelifted from Half Life 2 and looks fantastic. Textures, 
 and luster has been improved to keep the graphics fresh and new. The sound is spectacular as usual, 
 and the annoying glitch that caused the original Half Life 2 to freeze and slow down has been removed. 
 For only $20 bucks you don't expect a long 6-8 hour campaign especially for an expansion pack. 
 However Episode One can be beat easily in 2 hours for diehard Half Life fans, and in about 3-4 
 hours for somebody new to the FPS genre. But still, Half Life 2 Episode One is a great new installment 
 to the Half Life franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blurrypixel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  What's to like:
  - Alyx
  - Alyx's dialogs
  - Alyx's high kicks
  - Alyx's fac... shall I go on?
  - Great atmosphere
  - Great lighting (ambient and flashlight)
 
  - Great story driven game
  - Solid first person shooter
  - Intense combat
  - Original comic relief
  - Great physics
  - Superb NPC AI (Alyx)
  - Superb animations
  
 - Superb facial expressions and lip sync
  - Superb voice over, sound track and sound effects
  
  What you may not like:
  - Linear
 
  - Not very challenging
  - Short ending
  - Max resolution 1280x1024?
  - Some escorting
  - Very short game (4-6 hours)
  - Not enough destructive elements
  
  
  Story - It's all 
 about Alyx.
  
  One great improvement over the original HL2, is the addition of very rich story elements and character 
 development. 
  
  The story picks up right after the explosion at the end of HL2 and your goal will be to escape 
 the Citadel and its perimeter before everything blows up (again?) .
  
  In order to do so, Alyx will accompany you during the whole episode. 
  
  Let's get one thing 
 straight: Alyx is not your typical "escort npc" like you may have found in other games. Simply 
 put, She. Kicks. Ass. You don't need to baby-sit her and she never gets in your way. She can handle 
 herself pretty well, actually, probably even better than you can. Just look at her when she gets 
 in close combat: high kicks, knee kicks, pushes them around, etc.
  
  Her presence also makes the experience believable and addictive. She is constantly engaging in 
 one-way conversation (so I guess it's not a conversation then eh?) . Of course, your actions will 
 pretty much do all the talking for you. 
  
  Without revealing anything about how the story unfolds, we could compare this Episode as the 'Alyx's 
 Rollercoaster'. Brace yourself; you're on for a ride.
  
  
  Game - Can you spell A-C-T-I-O-N? 
  
  Well, I guess I just made it trivial now.
  
  If you 
 think HL2 had some great action, Episode 1 is even more intense with plenty of adrenaline rushed 
 segments. 
  
  There are no uneventful stretches. That goes to say that there is no vehicles, which isn't something 
 that you will miss.
  
  There are considerably more dark areas where you need to turn on your flashlight this time around. 
 Because of it, you are often stressed to find your enemies as quickly as possible 
  
  1) before they can reach you and kill you
  2) so that Alyx can know where to shoot / who to 
 kill
  
  Yes, you control her aiming with your flashlight in pitch-dark rooms. Otherwise she is pretty much 
 self-sufficient.
  
  
  Conclusion - A step in the right direction, though way too short
  
  If you weren't feeling engaged in Half-Life 2's story or its characters, Episode 1 successfully 
 puts you back on track.
  
  Alyx's character development goes beyond any expectations and you will get attached to her before 
 the end.
  
  Still, like its title suggests, Episode 1 is merely a chapter in the overall HL2 grand scheme of 
 things. It doesn't try to answer any of the bigger plot questions, but does, on the other hand, 
 provide you with key elements that will trigger your curiosity for the things to come.
  
  Considering Half-Life 2: Episode 1 is part of the Orange Box (+) , but is quite short (-- ) , I give 
 it an 8.4/10.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azurewrathhal
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  So, at some point between starting and finishing half life two episode 1 I had to stop and check 
 steam to make sure I hadn't accidentally loaded "Escort Quest: THE GAME." or "Trial by error." 
 But it turns out I had actually loaded half life 2 and I was just frustrated with valve's terrible 
 game play choices.
  
  As you might have guessed, I hate escorting. I loathe it. If I wanted to lead idiots around inside 
 an area they might be having fun in, I'd have kids and take them to the playground. Worse still, 
 is that in HL2EP1 (for which I will call this absurdly titled game from here on out) in the beginning, 
 the idiot you're escorting, is actually more useful than you are. Sigh.
  
  But I kept playing, I actually enjoyed myself from time to time when the game decided to make me 
 feel useful.
  
  The source engine is absolutely gorgeous and by now valve has had enough time to iron most of the 
 problems out, though it wouldn't be a valve game if it didn't crash randomly.
  
  It is a half life game still as well, so the most modest of poor decisions will almost always kill 
 you, (more often than the combat) and poor performance in platforming segments is a sure fire trip 
 to the quick load screen.
  
  And after the 6 hours or so it'll take you to quick save your way to the finish line you'll end 
 up running through hoops for an hour just so you can get the requisite 25 rockets it takes to kill 
 what is basically just a cyberdemon on clown stilts.
  
  But the game is still compelling enough to make you finish, which says a lot. 
  
  Is it as 
 good as half life 2 even if half life 2 was split into small chunks? No, not even close. The worst 
 of the original half life 2 is better than the best of episode one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HL2Box
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 3:35 pm PT
Review:  I was very happy with episode 1 for half life 2. It had very good voice acting and made you feel 
 like there is really an alyx your helping. This game is a perfect add on to the half life game. 
 Its controls are so easy to learn and use in the game and everything is very real. The physics 
 in this game are even better then half life 2. And this episode used more use of the phyics in 
 the game and put them to use in a very good way. The water, everyones favorite graphic, was very 
 real. And it also let you know alyx a little bit more. It showed her feelings alot in this game 
 and made a new person to fight, The Hunter, my favorite. Its very real and addictive to look at 
 and fight, if you get to half life episode 2 you see him and fight him there. But for the pc you 
 can spawn him before you get half life episode 2. The fighting is much better as-well as the gore 
 and blood, not that I will even get into that. They also added more voice acting in alyx and barney 
 and pretty much everything you will see in this game will have hundreds of things to say. I think 
 that this game is a very good part of half life 2, and so now thats done here is my score,
  
  Graphics, 10/10
  
  Voice acting, 10/10
  
  Controls, 10/10
  
  Story line, 10/10
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  To begin, this expansion is in no way as impressive as Opposing Force was to Half-Life 1, but in 
 the end, this is a very solid single-player experience. Read on.
  
  First off, as I always like to do, get the aesthetics out of the way. The game still looks great 
 even a couple years after the original HL2, and the addition of HDR lighting into the mix definately 
 helps upgrade the engine a little. The main problem here is that though you will go through 'new' 
 areas, a lot of the environments feel the same as the original. That's not to say they look bad, 
 because they still contain all the love and detail that HL2 contained, but it just gets a little 
 repetitive. In fact, you spend the whole first part of the game going through the same exact place 
 you went through in HL2's climax, except it is a little more destroyed this time around. Still, 
 this game does look good, it just could have used a little more variety.
  
  The game sounds just as magnificently as HL2, with [possibly] better voice acting then before and 
 sound effects to match. Just like HL2, this will be a game you will want to turn up.
  
  Considering how much Opposing Force had added to the original HL, I personally expected quite a 
 bit out of this expansion for HL2, I expected new weapons, new enemies, an interesting story and 
 some nice additions to the multiplayer. The only part of that that is truly fulfilled is the story.
 
  
  There are NO new weapons, and in fact one of the weapons from the original is not even available 
 in this expansion (the pherapod) . There is only ONE new enemy I can remember from the top of my 
 head. Granted, this new enemy does make certain encounters interesting, and it is a nice new enemy, 
 but that is the only one there. There is nothing new in the multiplayer, in fact it includes HL2DM 
 and Half-Life Deathmatch Source, both if which you already probably own if you have bought HL2 
 outside of Steam. 
  
  So with all these complaints, what is it that makes this game fun? The action. The game basically 
 takes the fantastic action from Half-Life 2, makes it a bit more intense, and throws you back in 
 the mix. The action in this game is fantastic and well done, and though there is no real last boss, 
 the climax of this game will definately have your heart pumping. There is not as much of a 50/50 
 split in puzzles/action like HL2, but rather more of a focus on the action and less on puzzle (I'd 
 say something like 70/30) . This isn't a bad thing, but it does make the game end a lot more quickly 
 than it may have were there a few more puzzles.
  
  To add to that, the character development (specifically of Alyx) is absolutely fantastic in this 
 game. On top of that, the continuation of the story is taking a very interesting direction.
  
  Because the game is short, you will likely take advantage of the included Developer's Commentary, 
 which has all sorts of interesting tidbits about the game, but other than that, the only reason 
 you might come back to this game is to replay it before playing Episode Two (and Three whenever 
 that comes out) . The multiplayer is great, and the new Half-Life DM Source is nice since you finally 
 get to play the original multiplayer in the source engine, but that also means all those mods you 
 used to play need to be remade for HLDMS. To me, the only new thing is Episode One and the replay 
 value is really based on that.
  
  Don't take it the wrong way though, this is an immensely (though short) satisfying expansion to 
 one of the best PC games ever made, and that is no small feat. If you have played HL2, this is 
 a must, just don't be surprised when you end up beating the game in 1-2 sittings. Enjoy.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Value: 7/10
  
  OVERALL: 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nuseir
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2008 5:30 am PT
Review:  this game was supposed to be a great FPS but thier is one problem ,in most part their is no shooting 
 , in most of the game the player uses the gravity gun and solves puzzles ,also covers antlions 
 holes , and don't get to shoot anything .which is what the player supposed to do in a FSP , it 
 works well as an adventure game but not a FPS ,the game is good and the graphics are nice and don't 
 need a powercard to run , so this is a great plus ,also the story is very good .. another plus .. but 
 the shooting is at its minimum . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyshadow
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I thought Halflife 2: Episode 1 would be a long and exciting expansion to the already great game. 
 At first impression, I was glad to see that it started where the previous game ended. The storyline 
 throughout was also very coherent. The greatest fault this game has is it's length. I began to 
 get very much into the game, kind of "on the edge of my seat" because of the story comming together. 
 But it's needless to say, that after only 4 hours of gameplay, I was shattered to see credits. 
 I would not recomend this game to anybody unless they were getting it for about $5 CAD or free.
 
  
  
  Jake 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chandu83
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Valve has decided to be generous to gamers by introducing episodic content in Half Life 2 series. 
 Instead of making everyone wait till the next big Half Life game to find the outcome of the ending 
 of Half Life 2, they released Half Life 2: Episode One.
  
  Episode One begins exactly where Half Life 2 left us. Without giving too much away, Episode One 
 answers most of the questions posed in Half Life 2, but the story telling is still very surreptitious, 
 because there is still a lot left unanswered and we can only hope that future episodes will shed 
 more light on the matter.
  
  The game is much more polished and I never noticed any bugs within the game, which is excellent 
 because Half Life 2 had its little share of bugs. It's a fairly short journey this time around, 
 but there is not a moment's rest throughout. Thankfully Alyx is there for support for most part, 
 and trust me, you are going to need it.
  
  Visually, the game looks a lot better than Half Life 2. If you have a video card that can support 
 HDR, the lighting throughout the game is enhanced and it looks amazing, especially in the outdoor 
 areas. The textures have received some treatment as well, because you will notice that models in 
 the game look a lot more realistic, especially Alyx.
  
  The environments are very familiar because they are seen in Half Life 2 as well. But with improved 
 graphics and lighting effects, they look a lot better than the previous game.
  
  I am going to keep this review short, because if you have played Half Life 2 and enjoyed it, then 
 you should play Episode One. The game is now a part of the Orange Box bundle, so price shouldn't 
 really be an issue.
  
  There, now you have no excuse for not playing this beautiful game.
  
  Stop reading and start 
 playing!
  
  Be warned though, it will be over in a hurry, but you have Episode 2 as well, so you will not be 
 left disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 6:58 am PT
Review:  Well Half-Life Episode 1 starts after the explosion in Half-Life 2 where something happened with 
 time. Probably Alyx and Dog are looking for Dr Freeman. After they found him they contact with 
 Dr Cleiner and the Alyx's dad. Dr Cleiner tells them that the Citadel is going to blow out and 
 the only way to have more time is going at the reactor and put shields on it. So when they put 
 on the shields on it, they met Barney and other people who they want to live Citadel but the Combine 
 didn't let anyone to leave. So decided to leave by train and create a counter-plot for leaving 
 people first and following after Alyx and Freeman. But when they were on the train the Citadel 
 blew out and the explosion caught up them. So ends Half-Life Episode 1 and we waiting the second 
 from the trilogy of Valve's Half-Life Episodes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 25, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  After the massive impression the original half-life gave to the world of the FPS, everyone couldn't 
 help but eagerly await the arrival of its sequel- Half-life 2. When it finally arrived in 2004, 
 it was another big hit. All matters considered however, it didn't quite achieve the quality of 
 the original. Not even close actually, as Half-life 2 suffered from a few problems, the biggest 
 problem of the game being the lousy enemy and allied AI. So episode 1 brings us more of the same, 
 and really doesn't change much of anything from the original, but it does somehow manage to make 
 up for a few of the original's faults.
  
  The story of episode 1 takes place directly where Half-life 2 left off. You had destroyed the Citadel's 
 dark-fusion reactor and seemingly defeated Dr. Breen. Unfortunately, in your moment of triumph, 
 the G-man extracts you from certain death, leaving the new heroine, Alyx, to die. When episode 
 1 begins however, you are suddenly plucked away from the G-man by your alien allies- the vortigaunts. 
 You wind up buried in some wreckage when you return to the real world, but Alyx and her robot pet 
 Dog quickly manage to find you. You quickly come to disocver the current situation, and set-out 
 to delay the citadel's imminent explosion, and escape from City 17.
  
  The basic gameplay here is completely unchanged- Valve ain't fiddling with a winning formula, and 
 we can't blame them. The shooting action here is still quite sharp, the arsenal having all the 
 general stuff you'd expect, including the trademark gravity gun, and ever popular crowbar. You'll 
 be facing most of the same enemies you faced in Half-life 2. Combine soldiers, headcrabs and zombies, 
 antlions, and more. 
  
  Episode 1 does introduce two new enemies for you to face- there's the "zombine" (The term being 
 coined by Alyx when you first encounter these guys) . These guy's main feature is the fact that 
 they can draw out a grenade to use as a club against you. Of course- they always activate this 
 grenade- effectively making them entertaining suicidal fighters. Then there are a few stalkers 
 you also have to deal with. You glimpsed stalkers in the original- but you never really saw their 
 capabilities. Their most annoying ability is to hinder your progress in the citadel by attacking 
 you with red beams, and even destroying the orbs you use to solve various puzzles in the citadel.
 
  
  Other than these two new foes however, episode 1 offers absolutely nothing new, and completely 
 fails to improve in several areas that Half-life 2 desperately needed improvement. For starters- 
 enemy soldier AI is as bad as ever, with no signs of any attempts at improvement by Valve (Talk 
 about lazy) . Its been stated that allied AI has been improved as well, but thats ultimately not 
 saying much. Alyx makes a great partner, but she did just as well in the original game, even though 
 you fought with her only briefly... The only difference is that she has some new unique attacks 
 against certain enemies, particularly zombies, but this isn't AI improvement- this is just improvements 
 of her capabilities, and could of easily been included in the original game.
  
  What episode 1 DOES manage to do however, is skillfully dodge those previous complaints with some 
 extremely sharp level-design. Much better than the level design of the original game. The enemy 
 AI issues are dodged due to the fact that soldiers aren't nearly as much of a dominant enemy in 
 episode 1 like they were in the original game (The dominant enemy now unquestionably being the 
 zombies) . Allied AI issues are also dodged since your backtracking alot less often now- so they 
 don't get in your way nearly as often here. Its all great stuff, that more than makes up for several 
 of the game's faults.
  
  Graphically, Episode 1 still looks great, with the new addition of HDR. Other than this, the graphics 
 look pretty much similar to what you saw in Half-life 2- great character models- great particle 
 effects- the same old yet still great looking environments... Thats the only complaint to be had 
 here- the environments on hand are all what you saw in the original game. But hey, why complain 
 when the environments here still look excellent? Sound wise, the game sounds excellent, just like 
 the original with great voice acting and sound design.
  
  When all is said and done, Episode 1 may offer more of the same, but it offers it in a sharper 
 package. Albeit- a much shorter package at that- but whats on hand here is higher quality than 
 what you saw in Half-life 2. So if you liked that game- you'll love episode 1.
  
  Pros: Spot-on level design that skillfully masks over many of the game's AI flaws. Shooting action 
 is still sharp. Graphics and sound work are still excellent. The zombine is an entertaining new 
 foe.
  
  Cons: Enemy soldier AI is still lackluster. Being a mere episode- the game is very short by nature.
 
  
  Recommendable for: Liked Half-life 2? You'll love Episode 1. Standard FPS fans should also like 
 Episode 1, though its short length is a bummer. You'll probably want to play Half-life 2 before 
 getting episode 1 to understand the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggest_loser
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  HALF-LIFE 2: EPISODE 1
  
  Although hailed by critics and fans as the best PC game of 2004, Half-Life 2 had an ending that 
 left many people scratching their heads. It wasn't so much an ending but a lead up to Episode 1, 
 the first of three expansion packs to be developed and released by Valve. In short it is a remarkable 
 production that completely lives up to hype and establishes itself as the epitome of what gaming 
 should be: a mixture of pulse raising action and continuously exciting game play, along with exquisite 
 technology that allows strong storytelling and impressive environments. The game begins with the 
 players again in control of hero Gordon Freeman. Along with Alyx Vance, you have been mysteriously 
 rescued from the dangerously unstable citadel, with the help of the Vortegauns. It soon becomes 
 apparent that the destruction of the building will destroy all of City 17. It is a race against 
 time to leave the city and evacuate the once repressed citizens, who have continued their revolutionary 
 stance in taking back Earth from the oppressive Combine alien force. 
  
  
  
  Arguably Episode 1 delivers the most stellar Half-Life game play to date. It sticks closely to 
 the formula of the previous games with a mixture of scripted action sequences and light puzzle 
 solving. Although players will be unsurprised by what they receive towards game play with this 
 package, they will be constantly astonished by the amount of effort that has been placed in somehow 
 making this feel as fresh and exciting as ever. Much has been made of the co-operative style of 
 game play that the presence of Alyx Vance brings to Episode 1. Although there were only key occasions 
 in Half-Life 2 where she accompanied you, she remains thoroughly prominent throughout this entire 
 expansion pack. In the first portion of the game, which revolves around revisiting the Citadel, 
 you are only armed with the Gravity Gun and as such there is great reliance on Alyx to provide 
 covering fire. Later on during an underground blackout you'll have to shine your flashlight on 
 targets for her to open fire. This reliance on each other serves to build the players relationship 
 with Alyx, which will surely be continued throughout the next two chapters. 
  
  
  Not only can she seamlessly navigate around the environment as easily as the player, but she also 
 remains an asset with her crack shot and strong wit. The latter is courteous of some terrific voice 
 acting, while lifelike facial animations also add to her lovely persona. Finally, a game with a 
 key character that remains informative, tough and charming, as well as beautiful. There are critical 
 moments in the game where she expresses emotion rarely seen in a video game, like saying goodbye 
 to her father via a computer screen, gently pressing her fingers against the glass surface, or 
 curling up in a corner after being absolutely terrified after a train accident. It just adds that 
 extra level of realism and humanity into the character. 
  
  
  
  The Source engine powering the game has been tweaked to deliver improved lighting effects and stronger 
 visuals. The available audio commentary with the game details the lengths that went into delivering 
 on the technical front. But really you don't have to listen to that to notice the effort put in. 
 All of the environments have again been meticulously designed and tailored to deliver an entirely 
 believable world. The buildings of City 17 still have that remarkable European architecture about 
 them, while propaganda and graffiti sprouts across the sides of buildings. The Citadel, looking 
 evermore like the Dark Tower from Lord of the Rings, remains terrifying, as it looms above the 
 clouds, dangerously unstable and unpredictable. The visuals, in crafting a believable universe, 
 add wholly to the player's belief in the game's fiction. The amount of variety placed on the environments 
 ensures that the frantic shoot 'em game play never goes stale. You'll fight your way through the 
 streets of City 17, aiding gun totting revolutionaries along the way, travel back inside the Citadel 
 to disrupt the core, blast through a hospital infested with Combine soldiers and zombies and be 
 tipped upside down by a devastating train ride. 
  
  
  
  Cynics may argue that the developers have attempted to cram absolutely everything into the game, 
 but really I found it to be so intense, beautifully paced and exciting that this would seem ludicrous. 
 There are quiet moments in the game that allow you to relax for a moment or two to catch your breath. 
 Valve seems to love the element of surprise. Many of the standout set pieces spring from nowhere 
 and genuinely add a degree of suspense to the game. A standout set piece being a scripted battle 
 with a giant Antlion as it crushes everything in its path. Though when you do reach the surface 
 midway through the game, there is an unsettling image of destruction, as a Strider marches back 
 and forth over the rubble of a fallen city, like something from the Warsaw Ghetto, which also remains 
 a standout. Finally, the closing frames of the game remain one of the most visually arresting scenes 
 this hard-boiled gamer has ever witnessed, as the player sits back exhausted, watching total demolition. 
 
  
  
  
  Many people have been quick to attack Episode 1 for its length. It has been stated that game lasts 
 for little more than 4-6 hours. I find this criticism to be in a word: irrelevant. At approximately 
 $35, you wont find a game of higher quality. And surely it's better to have a game that is relatively 
 brief but exciting, as opposed to one which is overlong and downright boring. Perhaps it does tease 
 players with its unanswered questions, but for a price like that, who cares? Half-Life 2: Episode 
 1 is a game of such remarkable quality that it cannot be justified in writing. Everything outstanding 
 from its predecessor has not only been included but also improved on in some way. The visuals seem 
 sharper, the pacing is close to perfect and the set pieces are more exciting and intense. This 
 is game that everyone should treat themselves to. And surely it is the Game of the Year.
  
  
  For:
  
  
  + Remarkable production
  + Exciting and often unpredictable.
  + Alyx Vance. 
 + Improved engine. 
  
  
  Against:
  
  
  - Another cliff-hanger ending.
  
  
  Verdict: Don't miss out on the most polished and sensational gaming experience in years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zythyl
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 26, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  If the term "episode" is anything to go by, then HL2: Ep1 is the first in a fantastic series. It 
 follows Gordon Freeman in his escape from City 17 as the *SPOILER* citadel blows up due to Breen's 
 untimely... "escape".
  
  The game requires Gordon Freeman to shut down the citadel's destress beacont o the Combine "advisors" 
 and to deliver the information about the signal to Eli Vance and essentially escape the crumbling 
 cityscape. 
  
  The visuals are still the same as HL2's but do include some new anti-aliasing options (mainly x16's 
 and x8's) and higher resolutions to deliver a more optimum gaming experience for newer machines. 
 
  
  As Episode One is the first in the HL3 series, it IS quite short so to make up a whole entire game 
 with Eps 2 and 3. Nevertheless, Episode One does have improved physics and this become evident 
 as we see Dog (Alyx's machine thing) jumping off buildings and rubble as well as throwing, yes 
 throwing, Gordon and Alyx across a canyon... in a car. 
  
  This is a must have for any HL2 fan, but if you didn't really enjoy your HL2 experience then I 
 do not reccomend you invest in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  The downside is -- this looks a lot like Half Life 2 and it's not entirely exciting to go back 
 into the Citadel as soon as you spent the entire first game blasting your way through corridor 
 after corridor.
  
  The upside is -- Episode 1 completely takes the level design to new heights. Everything looks familiar, 
 but more immersive ... more authentic .. and more challenging. Combat has a few true challenging 
 spots. Light and shadows are used much more effectively and purposefully. It's a short game but 
 satisfying. Some complain about the overall length, which is understandable considering the original 
 release was $20 (or $30?) . However, as part of The Orange Box, this is absolutely a good value 
 and doesn't overstay its welcome. The plot still moves along at a snail's pace, but at least you 
 can finish the game in a few sittings and it never feels like you're just slogging through it for 
 the sake of finishing it.
  
  Definitely worth playing just to see how refined the HL gameplay experience has become. Here comes 
 Episode 2 ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noambartouv
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:42 am PT
Review:  This half life episode was a little let down from Half Life 2 and Episode 2 because well for starters 
 there were no vichiles. It was also short which made it more of a let down (Episode 2 was hella 
 short too but this 1 was even shorter) .
  But overall the game was good and was actually the scariest of 3 (im not so sure but during a part 
 with a zombie on a table being experminted, the electricity went out in the whole block which made 
 it pitch black and i had to walk with zombie flashes in my head to get the flashlights in 3 A. M.)
 
  well even though the game wasn't as good as Half Life 2 and the next episode it was still fun 
 to play while it lasted. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smoke0
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 3:38 am PT
Review:  The Good: Same great gameplay, Alyx has a bigger role this time, continues the story of Half-Life 
 2.
  
  The Bad: Too short, no new weapons to speak of, no mutilplayer.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Also included in The Orange Box
  
  Half-Life 2 was a great game. A truly great sequel to a great game. Episode One is the first of 
 3 expansions for Half-Life 2, so this one ends ready for Epsoide 2. But does this first episode 
 show a bright future for the other 2 expansions, or should they just drop it?
  
  STORY
  
  Episode 1 picks up right where Half-Life 2 ended. You are once again playing as Gorden Freeman, 
 who in HF2, was yet again taked away from the world by G-Man like in the ending of the original 
 Half-Life, but some wired looking creatures are breaking you free of G-Mans grasp, and sends you 
 back to the world. You wake up in the ruins of the citadal, being found by Alyx Vance, and her 
 mechanical pet Dog. You & Alyx have to get into the citadal, and make sure the reactor dosent 
 explode, so that they can get survivors out of City 17. What follows is a short story, that has 
 its thrills and a few memorable points, but the short length hurts it. 8.0
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The gameplay is basicly the same as in Half-Life 2, and includes the same weapons (although 
 not all of them) , and theres only 2 things that have changed. The first is that you have The Gravity 
 Gun all the time, which dosent hurt one bit, since its a great weapon, demostrating the great 
 pyshics of the Source Engine, and its used well. The second thing is Alyx. Alyx was seen quite 
 a bit in HF2, as she was maked the heroine of HF2. This time shes back, and now shes with you 
 all the time, acting as your side kick, and she does her job more than great. She follows you where 
 ever you go, never complains, always ready to give you a helping hand, and she can take care of 
 herself. In short: The perfect friend. Her AI is perfect, and there never seems to be any problems 
 with her. Youll also grow your feelings for her, as she cracks jokes from time to time, and is 
 a part of every event. The rest of the game is basicly HF2, with new locations, and 1 new enemy 
 type. Combine zombies, which can be reffered to as Zobines (get it?) . But the single-player does 
 have its flaws. If you have played HF2, and are looking for something new, this might not be it. 
 Only story is new here, the gameplay is the same as in HF2, which makes you wish there where some 
 new stuff. Unfortunely theres only the single-player here. No new mutilplayer enhancements. Only 
 the short single-player mode. 7.5
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics are pretty much the same as in HF2, which (unlinke the single-player) , is a great 
 thing. The graphics in HF2 was awesome, and so it is in Episode 1. You still get the same great 
 facial animations, the same detail, in short: pretty much everything that was great about the graphics 
 in HF2. 10
  
  SOUND
  
  Stil the same as in HF2. The same voice actors return, which is a nice touch, even though some 
 of the characters like Dr Kleiner and Barney only are on for a few minutes total. The music has 
 seen a bit of an improvement. The music in HF2 was very eletronic music, but this time, it reminds 
 a bit of the soundtrack from Halo 2, without the ocrestra though. But the sound effects are the 
 same, and some new sound effects wouldnt have hurt. 8.5
  
  LENGTH
  
  The main flaw of the game. The game lasts from anywhere between 2-5 hours. I completed the game 
 in 2 hours and 30 min, so it was a big disappointment that it ended so quickly. The replay value 
 is pretty low, because theres no unlockables, and no mutilplayer. Only a developer commentary, 
 and higher difficultys. Thats it. So what we got here is a pretty short game. 5.0
  
  OVERALL
  
  Episode 1 shows a bright future for the other 2 episodes for Half-Life 2. But the 
 developers should stop thinking about using the expansions only as progressing the story of HF2, 
 and starting thinking of some new stuff to include, and a longer game. 2 hour and 30 min compleating 
 time is unacceptable, for such a game as HF2 Episode 1, and expansion for the great HF2, and even 
 looking at todays standards. This is a pure example, that a game, that can be completed in no time, 
 really can hurt a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djtrotte
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  'm sorry, but this is what I would have expected if the work experience kid was let loose in the 
 Valve Dev Lab and told "Go on, go crazy during your lunch break". I sneezed and finished it. Severely 
 disappointed at the lack of meat on this pizza. Since I'm on the soapbox, I was also a little peeved 
 at the lack of ability to buy the seperate components for the Orange Box, and regardless of the 
 pre-order discount, it didn't seem right that I should have to buy the whole enchilada again. (sorry 
 for all the food references, I'm starving) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harrisi17
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  Well Half-Life 2 is great and I needed to get Ep. 1 before the orange box. The game starts right 
 where HL2 ended, the core exploded, but you are still in the tower. Most of HL ep1 is figuring 
 out how to stall the explosion of the reactor to allow gordon and alyx passage outside of the city. 
 Much of the gameplay is in the combine tower using the gravity gun (upgraded) and this is fun, 
 but does drag on a little. After most of the game is finished, you start to leave the center of 
 the city looking for a train to exit. After some combine action, you are faced with a stalker as 
 a final 'boss' which is cool.
  
  The game looks pretty much like HL2 with some possible technical improvements which arn't really 
 noticeable. This is not a bad thing though. 
  
  There is a lot of puzzle solving with physics which I liked but possibly too much gravity gun. 
 Great continuation though and a good connection between HL2 and ep.2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AudioSoldier
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  Written with the recently digested Episode Two in mind, it's glaringly apparent how lackluster 
 Half-Life 2: Episode One really is. Originally titled Aftermath, it depicts the repercussions of 
 the Citadel's explosion, Though, truth be told, nothing really happens in Episode One. It feels 
 like a stilted stopgap between its predecessor and the recently released second episode. It might 
 be a good game in the broad scheme of things, but it doesn't do its heritage justice.
  
  Core to this bite-sized shooter is character development. Alyx accompanies you (Gordon) throughout 
 the three hour journey, though she seemingly serves as a gameplay device armed with fistfuls of 
 hints rather than being a meaningful addition to the story. She is an object of annoyance throughout, 
 bumping you out her way in a most un-lady like manner as she strides down her pre-determined route. 
 Her aptitude for continually perking up with: "Hey Gordon, why don't you try X or Y is a frustration 
 too, since it's such an obvious gameplay mechanic that feels wholly unnatural to this ingenuous 
 series. 
  
  Maybe I'm nit-picking, but the overall scope of Episode One is severely lacking. It doesn't feel 
 as ingeniously weaved, it's too obviously forced and, parallel to the abridged length, it lacks 
 necessary variety (they seem to run hand in hand: less game, less scope) . Sure, you get to escort 
 hapless allies outside during the final fight, but the ensuing gameplay is uncharacteristically 
 formulaic. 
  
  Arsenal increments are ominously lacking too, though the visuals are improved through the use of 
 HDR-Lighting. It's still a legitimately good looking game with the trademark facial animations 
 heightening your sense of immersion. Though, coupled with the realistic physics, it's a shame Valve 
 didn't feel more ambitious throughout the truncated adventure. 
  
  In saying this, it's more Half-Life 2, a commodity I'd be hard pressed to condemn. And, given the 
 quality of its successor (Episode Two) , you can write off Episode One as a bridge between Valve's 
 more obviously inspired efforts. 
  
  At any rate, Half-Life fans will eagerly devour this, and so they should. It's another notch on 
 Gordon Freeman's journey. Nonetheless, we are deserving of better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miklifton
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2: Episode One continues the story of Gordon and Alyx as they try to help the people 
 escape the city. Now I really dont need to get into detail about this game. Pretty much everything 
 is the same as HL2. Although it does seem that they improved on the detail of graphics a tad bit. 
 Now since its the same as HL2, you know it is a great game. The story didnt really get to far 
 ahead and explain too much. Its pretty much just escaping the city. Now, what keeps this game 
 from being perfect is, Im sure everyone knows, its short! When I heard the reviews and found out 
 it was short it didnt really bother me. I started playing knowing what was going to happen. But 
 when I actually finished the game I realized how short it was! When it finished I said to my self 
 That cant be it! And sure enough, it was. It was much shorter than I thought it was. Then again 
 that can also be a good thing. They say that when you are having fun, time flies by. The game was 
 obviously so much fun that it seemed like I only played for like 2 hours. So now we know this game 
 is fun! And Im sure thats good enough for all the HL fans and any other FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thomas_hye
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 10:41 pm PT
Review:  When i first got HL2EP1 i was like OMG I'VE GOTTA PLAY THIS. and i did. I loved the graphics and 
 the new HDR. everything looked better. Even dog was pretty. what was also new in it, was that you 
 got to sit in a van and a train for a little. Which is totally new in HL. if we look away from 
 the inbound in HL1. BUT new stuff is good stuff. The core is also a good example of The new graphics 
 PUSH. And damn it looked awesome. but it isn't funny to jump in though... YES there's a new zombie 
 too! with grenades and stuff. but he's pretty stupid. Well i can now tell what i loved in the game. 
 There's a part in the end where the combines kinda keep coming. KILL KILL KILL. yeah... but as 
 in the end... that part wasn't long from the rest. This sequel is VERY short. i played for about 
 6 hours. and i even looked around where i shouldn't and stuff like that. but yeah good gameplay, 
 good enemies, perfect sound, nice scenery, more story. BUT short short gameplay.
  also before i'm done here. i don't think you will replay the game more than 1 or 2 times. it's 
 just too short and simple for that. But everyone has different thoughts so. :D
  
  i'm so done. omg! time for school
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D3LTA1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 10:29 am PT
Review:  I bought it when it first came out, and really loved it. I was left despaired for more, and luckily 
 it has finally happened with episode 2. I relate half life to a great movie-that you get to live 
 through, and episode 1 is a lovely sequel. I recommend getting the orange box and playing the whole 
 story through-and then sitting back when you are done, and feeling much better about yourself. 
 Its worth every penny, and every hour. Plus it has re-play value, after a year or so you can go 
 back and play it again and it still has flavor. I highly recommend it to anyone who loves games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kazoo128
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 6:32 pm PT
Review:  The Half-Life series has always been one of the best in the FPS genre. Unfortunately, episode one 
 doesn't come close to representing its faithful following of gamers. The bad:
  They don't really improve on the action formula at all, and you never feel sucked in the way that 
 the previous installments in the series do. Any of the scenarios of episode one could have been 
 found in H-L 2 as extensions to levels, but feel like glued together bits of action as a stand 
 alone title. There is barely any plot, which gives the game a feeling of being monotonously linear. 
 The game wasn't long enough, because of its linear nature, to give you a feeling of satisfaction 
 at the end of the game. The use of weapons feels forced or misplaced; meaning there isn't enough 
 variety in the beginning and towards the end of the game the weapon placement doesn't really make 
 sense at all. Alex can get kind of annoying at times with regard to what she says.
  
  I experienced some buggy issues related to the quick save or quick load functions, although I don't 
 know if that's just my setup. The good:
  H-L 2 had a slick and smooth graphical feeling, and episode one definitely improves on the formula. 
 The textures and lighting are much better, and the action feels a little more refined. Overall:
 
  While the formula isn't improved on all that much, that doesn't necessarily mean this is a bad 
 thing. HL 2 was a great game- still I can't help but be disappointed by the lack of improvements 
 and plot in this recent installation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pro_gamer12345
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Honestly this has to be the shortest game I've ever played. This game has good gameplay and sound 
 but the down side would have to be the game is WAY too short.
  
  Gameplay: This game picks off right where Half-Life 2 ended. The action is marvelous. But the lighting 
 is just poor. Half the time your fighting zombies in a dark room. Not only that your flashlight 
 has that aux power still so its very limited. They expect you to find a power box in a dark room 
 where theres countless zombies? What the Hell? I actually had to squint my eyes just to see what 
 the hell is going on. Story: The story is just fantastic. I cannot say anymore. Sound: The sound 
 is fantastic. The voice acting is just marvelous. You can notice their face expressions alot better 
 than Half life 2. Not only that but the music fits perfectly with the game. The battles are unimaginable 
 without music.
  
  Value: These are the types of games whether you like it or not. Well it was a good game but I've 
 seen better. If you are going to get this game I highly recommend it to you. This game comes in 
 the orange box with Half Life 2, and Half life 2 episode 2. There is also portal and team fortress 
 2 to go along with the orange box. And yes it is worth it. I don't have much to say cause this 
 game was just way too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flclempire
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 12:05 am PT
Review:  Welp, its HL2, and its boring :|
  There is nothing new from HL2 cept Zombines, and there is nothing fun about them. Its just constantly 
 waddling around with Alyx killing endless amounts of boring zombies in poorly lit areas, I had 
 to take eye strain breaks because of the piss-poor flashlight.
  The graphics, sounds, and everything else were just as good as HL2 so they are good, but since 
 they didn't improve at all I don't think they deserve mentioning. The story didn't really advance 
 in ep1 either, other than the portal opening and the train ride at the end, this episode was pointless 
 &gt;.&gt;
  
  This game was obviously just to distract us and get Valve some more moolah while they worked on 
 ep2, but it failed because I beat the damn game in a single day T. T I'd only recommend this if 
 you've never played it and plan on getting the oj box.
  the end! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: with_teeth26
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  I got this game, like the first on, for $10 as an afterthougth. i was going to buy bioshock, or 
 airborne, but both were out of stock. so i bought this. And considering i didn't really know why 
 i got it, i'd say it's pretty damn good. apart from the fact it lasts about as long as a turkey 
 takes to roast. (well, a really big turkey) . But while it lasts it's great fun. Athough there were 
 a number of times where i would spend precious minutes running about trying to find a crank, which 
 would then slowly open a door while hords of mutants pour out of holes in the ground. it's half 
 life you know. The main diffrence from the other half life games is that you play the whole thing 
 with alex, who does bugger all to help you. i'll stand here and not do anything while you go cross 
 that dangerous birdge, fight of an army of mutants and save the world. come right back. lines like 
 this are common in the game. the upgrades to the source engine look fantastic. (yes, the shadows 
 are still flat, but the hdr effects are improved greatly.) Overall, i'd say buy it, but only if 
 it's really cheap, because the process of going to buy it will take longer than getting through 
 the bloody thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trafalet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 Episode One is definitely better than Half Life 2, and there are hundreds of reasons 
 for saying that . The HDR thing is really cool , and is doing a good job improving the graphics 
 . Is too bad that the game is so short (almost five hours) and the weapons are the same as well 
 as the enemies, except the Zombine . But thanks God , they are not as dumb as they were in the 
 previous game , offering us a satisfying challenge. The difference between easy , medium and hard 
 is visible now thanks to the A. I. , which is reasonable this time. I can't wait to play Episode 
 Two and see what happens next ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BambooStudios
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so here I am downloading Episode 2 more than a year after this game; I can't wait so I'm writing 
 this review to help pass the time. If you played Half Life 2 and enjoyed it then you will love 
 this game. If you never played Half Life 2 and you picked up this game then you will probably decide 
 that you need to play Half Life 2 first. You'll realize this game (episode 1) relies heavily on 
 the strength of it's story, which (imho) is pretty good. The graphics in this game are a visual 
 feast and not something you want to just dive into without getting into the story first. That said, 
 Episode one can stand alone and if you haven't played Half Life 2 before you can still enjoy the 
 game, though probably not as much. The game is also short and leaves you hanging... kind of like 
 the season finale for a prime-time television action/drama; Episode 1 leaves you wanting more.
 
  It's pretty much just more Half Life 2 and it's considerably shorter but the character development 
 goes deeper and in many ways makes the game more interesting. By the time you finish Episode 1 
 you will probably be wanting an Episode 2 pretty badly. I've been waiting for over a year and now 
 that the Orange Box is out I can finally see what happens next. If you don't have any Half Life 
 2 games then pick this (Episode 1) up as part of the Orange Box; you will want to play the original 
 HL2 before it and Episode 2 when you're done for sure.
  
  Oh, and if you've never seen or played Half Life 2 before then you should know that this game is 
 technically the same in almost every way:
  Excellent graphics, very modest hardware demands, widescreen supporting, single player first person 
 shooter. Episode 1 doesn't require Half Life 2 to play, it's not an expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 2, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  The official site for Episode One states that HL2 has sold over four million copies; given that 
 Half-Life 2 was one of the most anticipated shooters at the time of its release, this isn't much 
 of a surprise. What did become surprising, though, was Valve shifting the next installment from 
 an expansion pack called Aftermath to an episodic format. Today marks the release of the first 
 entry, and we expect to see the next one in six months, with the third and presumably final episode 
 coming a year from now. While we knew a lot about HL2 by the time it came out, Valve has been coy 
 about Episode One, and I've avoided watching the teaser trailers, to keep the experience as fresh 
 as possible.
  
  As you may have heard, Episode One begins right where HL2 left off, with the destruction of the 
 Combine Citadel. However, those of you who've been waiting for an answer to how Gordon and Alyx 
 escaped the devastation are going to have to keep holding your breath. If anything, the revelation 
 just gets weirder, instead of clearer. Either way, you're still at ground zero and must finish 
 the Citadel once and for all, since your heroic feats in HL2 apparently just gave the enormous 
 structure a case of indigestion. While you wander around in its bowels, you'll be treated to some 
 more mysterious activities that will presumably be explained later on. In the meantime, you'll 
 encounter the same enemies and use the same weapons, while engaging in mostly the same tactics. 
 There are bridges you need to activate by throwing those energy balls at certain devices, and you'll 
 make a lot more use of the gravity gun in general, but the physics puzzles have been downplayed. 
 Instead, you'll be using the gun mostly to deal with path obstacles.
  
  You'll also encounter the same enemies, save one, and he's just a twist on something you've encountered 
 before. Furthermore, you won't find yourself dealing with much in the way of unusual architecture 
 (save for the Citadel, but there's not much in there that you haven't seen before) . The entirety 
 of Episode One takes place in City 17. This is not a bad thing, but I would like to have seen some 
 new areas of it, like sewers or office buildings at least. Instead, you'll be moving through parking 
 structures, urban residences, ducts, and a few sub-basements. There are also no vehicles to drive, 
 which is too bad because they were a lot of fun in HL2.
  
  One of HL2's greatest strengths was its steady introduction of new area types and new creatures. 
 The ant lions, the bridge over a gaping chasm, the prison, Ravenholm, Highway 17, the hover boat, 
 the helicopters that can only be taken down with missiles, the striders -- there's a long list 
 of neat things that HL2 did, and Episode One doesn't feel as fresh as a result, since it largely 
 reuses previous content, and it doesn't advance the story as much as a four-hour experience should. 
 There's plenty of conversation (minus Gordon, natch) , but it largely deals with moment-to-moment 
 details. The remainder is mostly devoted to new problems that aren't answered within the scope 
 of this installment. We're left with about as many questions as we had at the end of HL2.
  The game still looks quite good, however, and features full HDR for some nice lighting effects. 
 The facial animation is still top-notch, the voice acting is great, and the art style is gritty 
 and detailed. Alyx is with you almost the entire way, and she's typically more of a help than a 
 hindrance, which is a refreshing change. The rebel squads in HL2 tended to get bunched up in hallways, 
 making it difficult to quickly and tactically respond to a threat, so it's nice to just deal with 
 one capable individual. And she's not invincible. There was one section where I had to do a lot 
 of running around, and I left it to her to deal with some problems while I did my thing. Unfortunately, 
 she died, and game doesn't let you progress when that happens. I was more conscientious of her 
 situation from that point on, but there's only so much I can do when I don't get an indication 
 of how much health she has, or if her health regenerates after being out of combat for X amount 
 of time. I'll take her over an invincible ally, though, or over a slew of constantly restocked 
 but faceless buddies.
  
  Episode One is a very polished experience, with a sense of humanity and personality that you rarely 
 see in a shooter. And there are some intense segments here and there. But this installment doesn't 
 have the wow factor of HL2; that was an ambitious game with a legacy to live up to. It was a well-crafted 
 experience that had obviously been in the works for years. Episode One, in contrast, doesn't feel 
 as adventurous. It's still Half-Life, which means it looks great, is very interactive, and has 
 some interesting mechanics. But I find myself yearning for the cliffs of Lost Coast, or the fortified 
 bridges of Highway 17. Perhaps now that the resolution of HL2 is out of the way, we can have an 
 experience that continues the story instead of filling in a gap.
  
  If the Episode Two teaser following the endgame credits is any indication, we will encounter some 
 new things and places. I just wish Episode One had advanced the story a little further than it 
 did. One can't second guess Valve, but it seems like the escape from City 17 could have been compressed 
 into a much more compact experience, leaving room for what comes after. Instead, Episode One feels 
 stretched a little thin, especially when you have to go back and forth several times in one section, 
 escorting refugees in batches of two to five people. And perhaps Valve's storytelling style is 
 more suited to a longer arc, because no new conflict is introduced here. Well, there are hints 
 and suggestions, but nothing rears its head in the four to five hours it takes to finish the episode. 
 (On a side note, the game defaults to Easy difficulty; we played it on Normal and we recommend 
 Hard for a good challenge.)
  
  Closing Comments
  When it comes down to it, you should like Episode One if you liked Half-Life 2. Despite the fact 
 that it isn't as adventurous or dramatic as HL2, Episode One still offers quality that's a cut 
 above the rest. Its humanity (in the face of strange, masked soldiers and sometimes grotesque creatures) 
 makes it more than a rote experience, and the Citadel is still an imaginative and interesting setting. 
 In retrospect, HL2 appears to be a very difficult game to follow up on, and Valve does a very capable 
 job of keeping the fire going. And buying the game on Steam is a relatively painless experience, 
 especially compared to where the service was when HL2 launched. Judging by the material I saw in 
 the Episode Two trailer, it looks like Valve will indeed open up the world a little. As it stands, 
 Episode One is a brief, stylistically claustrophobic experience whose polish and personality manage 
 to keep things moving. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beckoflight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 7:22 am PT
Review:  What could you expect from VALVe a lesser expeirence nooo &amp; a better 1one yes fir sure the 
 only down side that this is their 1st start in the episodic HL series &amp; this 1st 1one is kind 
 of short ! But anyway lets talk about it lets start with th story ..... you are on the top of the 
 citadel exactly where the Gman left you speachless with Alyx ... but gues what in the exact time 
 fisure the vourtigans come &amp; rescue you from both the explosion &amp; the Gman &amp; they manage 
 to stop his as well for now ..... then you are found by DOG &amp; Alyx at the foundations of the 
 citadel &amp; from there you start your escape from city 17 because the citadel's reactor is going 
 to blow .... in order to prelong its delay you find out that you actually have to go again in to 
 the citadel &amp; tweak it .... in there you will again control the overpowered gravity gun &amp; 
 after you had a metting with the reactor ..... the main adventures objective is to get out of city 
 17 ! As allways the gameplay is top notch never getting repetitive .... its main part of fun comes 
 from Alyx Vance who is just well to human to much personality in to her than it is in the entire 
 gaming industry ... i just found this to be clearly genius because the characters around Gordon 
 creted his personality because he hasn't spoken a word since the beggining &amp; he evan dosen't 
 have a body :) ) !
  Now the Source engine .... well i don't know what VALVe does but the engine looks greater than ever 
 with the HDR technology &amp; advanced shaders not ean new realease titles has better engines than 
 this &amp; from what shown in EP2 you can say that games like HALO3 or REssitence for example + (many 
 others ) still dosen't present the quality that the SOURCE has &amp; if you think about it VALVe 
 is head with its technology ..... be sure that they are working on new engine as wee speak &amp; 
 i can not imagine the wowness i will have when i will se it ! Anyway the only bad thing of episode 
 1one is well its true short i consider my game a skillful player &amp; i have finished the game 
 under 5 hours ! IF you have played te entire HL series this is a must have if you haven't played 
 evan HL2 well don't get this 1st get HL2 just to have a start of orientation as you get in the 
 story ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doomwarrior235
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  Episode 1 picks up where Half Life 2 left off. You start out outside of the citadel when it is 
 getting ready to explode. In this game you are trying to get out of City 17 before it blows up. 
 Episode 1 does a lot of things better than Half Life 2. One thing is that episode 1 is much harder 
 than Half Life 2 and the puzzles are a bit better.
  
  One thing I don't like about episode 1 is that there are no new weapons in the game, and one weapon 
 witch is the bug bait, did not seem like it was in the game. But the reason why I don't think they 
 put the bug bait in were because there are a few puzzles that involve you trying to cover up Ant 
 lion tunnels.
  
  The graphics have not been updated a lot but there are a few tweaks. The graphics still look great.
 
  
  Over all if you want to see what happens next after Half Life 2 then you need to play episode 1. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanlyger
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 21, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 was a very good game with a disappointing ending.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode One was a good game with a lousy ending.
  
  Being the first in an episodic 
 series, this game is pretty short. However, I purchased it, brand new, for only 10 dollars so its 
 hard to feel like youve been ripped off.
  
  Despite its short playtime and its lame ending, Episode One will still leave you with a sense 
 of satisfaction.
  
  Most of the game play is identical to that of Half-Life 2 with a few additions. Specifically the 
 teamwork that you have to perform with Alyx, which involves shining your flashlight a her targets.
 
  
  The graphics and physics engines are as impressive as they were before and there is a dramatic 
 increase in the facial expressions. The voice acting is as tremendous as ever.
  
  To many fans delight, Alyx Vance is by your side for almost the entire game and flirts with Gordon 
 even more.
  
  The big problem that remains is that Dr. Freeman still never says a word making the relationship 
 with Alyx awkward and makes it tough, for me at least, to really embrace the character.
  
  When all is said and done, it come down to one question; Did you like Half-Life 2?
  
  If the 
 answer is yes, then play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastpunk
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  After Half-Life 2's successful release, Valve decided to continue the series with episodic content. 
 It wasn't very smart of them if you ask me. Enter Episode One, the first of three episodes that 
 are supposed to conclude Gordon Freeman's story. So what's new? Not much. First off the developer 
 did a good job at improving the game's pacing so that it doesn't feel so fractured. But that's 
 about the only thing they improved. Episode One still suffers from some of the same problems as 
 HL2: a painfully linear design and frustrating gameplay in certain circumstances. The flaw that 
 sticks out the most is team combat. It's really annoying to have companions with you because they 
 get in your way all the time. You'll encounter zombines that have a habit of running towards you 
 with grenades in their hand. The last thing you need is some team mate blocking your efforts of 
 putting some space between you and your suicidal enemies. It's not that bad in wide areas but half 
 of the game takes place in tight indoor environments where this problem really sticks out. Also, 
 the movement controls can prove imprecise in situations that require good timing and a bit of acrobatics. 
 Side-stepping especially, it's just too ample. When you're running in a hurry across narrow ledges 
 you can't risk falling but that's what's going to happen if you try to side-step. In contrast with 
 side-stepping is jumping, which is not ample enough. It would have been nice of Valve to concentrated 
 a bit on these details. You can't make a shooter that claims to have pedigree and have this sort 
 of problems. Take UT2004 or Quake 3, these two games are a lot faster than HL2 but don't exhibit 
 this sort of finesse problems.
  
  But probably the game's biggest problem is it's length, or lack of it. You'll finish it in two 
 or three casual sessions which isn't nearly enough considering that Episode One arrived 19 months 
 after HL2! Still, the game world still has that unique feel that HL2 had. It looks and sounds great 
 and it also performs great on a large variety of hardware configurations. As for a recommendation: 
 no, I don't recommend spending your money on it. It's just too short and the story is almost absent, 
 so you will not be missing anything important if you skip this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stefanounick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  Well Half-Life Episode 1 starts after the explosion in Half-Life 2 where something happened with 
 time. Probably Alyx and Dog are looking for Dr Freeman. After they found him they contact with 
 Dr Cleiner and the Alyxs dad. Dr Cleiner tells them that the Citadel is going to blow out and 
 the only way to have more time is going at the reactor and put shields on it. So when they put 
 on the shields on it, they met Barney and other people who they want to live Citadel but the Combine 
 didnt let anyone to leave. So decided to leave by train and create a counter-plot for leaving 
 people first and following after Alyx and Freeman. But when they were on the train the Citadel 
 blew out and the explosion caught up them. So ends Half-Life Episode 1 and we waiting the second 
 from the trilogy of Valves Half-Life Episodes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhyeen
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Ive always loved half-life, especially half life 2, classics both of them, and episode one really 
 kept the great name of HL2.
  The first thing I noticed that I never got sick of, is the amount of emotion and interaction Alyx 
 created for the game. This made the storyline one of my favorites, and it gave the game the little 
 kick it needed.
  Another thing was the art in the game. The different corridors and alleyways were all unique and 
 beautiful. This defiantly showed when you exit the underground while walking up the stairs and 
 see the citadel with a color show of sunset like skies.
  The graphics I wont touch on, never really thought they were the greatest, and Alyx always seemed 
 to look too old when the lighting had a bad reflection on her face. Also no big changes from HL2 
 graphics, but it ran smooth on my machine so no major complaints.
  And finally, yes okay it WAS short, beat it in 4 hours the first timebut for $20 its worth the 
 pay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grantelicious
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 7, 2007 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Episode one is a real big disappointment and since Valve has decided to go to episodic content 
 i really don't like the future of the Half-Life series. I would have much prefered them to do one 
 epic amazing title every 6 years than a mediocre one every 1-2 years.
  
  Everything in this game is the same as HL2 but they've gotten rid of Vehicles and it's about 1/4 
 int he length being completed in about 3 hours and being about the same price as HL2 with none 
 of the bonus content. What also gets me is all the levels you play in you've played in HL2 but 
 just in a dfiferent layout and more annoying because now you have Alyx following you. Why would 
 i want to play through City 17 again or even play through the citadel again when i've done it in 
 HL2?
  
  Theres no new weapons or new characters in the game too and no new features or graphical upgrades. 
 The weapons are dated enough but to actually age the game even more by adding no vehicle levels 
 or new types of puzzles is quite weird. Infact the only fun part i found on this game was the opening 
 scene when Dog throws you into the Citadel.
  
  The game adds nothing new to multiplayer or anything to make it worse the money too. Atleast if 
 Episode 2 sucks it'll come in a package with TF2 and Portal which might be abit of fun. The most 
 annoying part of Episode one aswel is the escort level where you have to keep bringing your friendlys 
 to the train station 3 or 4 times while waves of Combine come. It's just not fun and gets old after 
 the first time, specially how Gordon is on the wrong side and playing as combine would be much 
 more fun.
  
  Also why doesn't valve let you play as the combine or any other characters like they did with HL 
 and them expansions called oposing forces and blueshift and one other one i forgot about. That 
 would be sooo much better to do while making HL3 than these stupid episodes which will just confuse 
 people int he end.
  
  What i hate most is they've made me hate one of my fave characters in HL2 and that's Alyx. She 
 was a sexy lovely character in that game but in this one she's more of a annoying voice all the 
 way through it that you'll just be like oh **** off lol.
  
  That said though HL2 episode one isn't a bad FPS, it just doesn't live upto HL2 and seems quite 
 pointless buying it if it wasn't for the advancing storyline. After the Orange pack comes out then 
 it will be pointless buying it as it comes with that too.
  
  Please Valve do better with the next episodes or better yet ditch them after episode 3.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adders11
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 8:18 am PT
Review:  It took me about 5 hours or so to complete HL2 Episode One. It carries on where HL2 left off and 
 has the same great gameplay as before, well sort of. I enjoyed the game but its just so short. 
 You get HL2 Deathmatch and HL1 Deathmatch Source with it but if it's just Episode One you want 
 its a waste of money if the game is at 20 or more. Its enjoyable but theres not much variety. 
 You are with Alyx through the whole game and you are in City 17 for the whole game too. I was a 
 little annoyed at the fact you never go solo except for a few puzzles etc because I prefered it 
 when you were on your own in HL2 (which was most of the game) . But still, it doesnt make much difference 
 as the game is quite hard anyway. Its starts off really well. The graphics and sound are just the 
 same as HL2 was, maybe a little better graphics because the lighting effects look better. The voice 
 acting is great as always. If you own Half-Life 2 you really need to play this and complete it. 
 Overall it was good fun just way too short. The ending was better than HL2 though. Episode Two 
 looks like it'll be much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesusismyhomie
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  This Game is absolutely STUNNING.
  This Sequel the the Ultimate FPS game of all time is one true accomplishment.
  With new puzzles 
 (not much variety (oh well) )
  extended story line (which is the BEST part about this game and the way the plot develops is breath 
 taking) The only problem to the game... is its TOO SHORT
  Characters are average but you practically get a NEW girlfriend ;)
  
  The character emotion 
 system in this game is awesome. Both you and your partner develop a friendship like its real (they 
 sometimes flirt also)
  
  but in general, THIS GAME IS AWESOME
  I reccommend this game to all Half Life 2 users
  
  and if you havent played Half Life 2 yet....
 
  
  you are missing out I CANT WAIT TILL EPISODE TWO COMES OUT!!!!!!! YAY!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WarLock_pt_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  the game is very good, this chapter as a lot of emotion, at the beginning principally.
  i like the the convie zombies, the fights between us and the spiders, and on the end we don't know 
 what will happen so how plaid half life 2 episode one will have to play episode two...
  the worst in this game is that it's very very small, i pass the game in two and half hours. the 
 levels on the cidatel are great, because of the gravity gun. hl ep1 doesn't have many puzzles, 
 it have more action.
  
  sorry about the bad English.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmreedy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 9:52 am PT
Review:  The expansion pack of Half Life 2 came out. It still, wasnt as good as the first or second.
  
  You are with Alyx Vance the entire time in this game. Basically, you have to get out of City 
 17. Fine. Easy. But is it really?
  
  The game adds a lot of new things. Zombies get tougher with the Zombine running at you with a grenade, 
 but if you kill it before it gets to you, it's still trouble.
  
  Realistic emotions are also in this game. Look at Alyx with your flashlight on and she will cover 
 her face. Move it away and she will put her arm down.
  
  Graphics are still as good as the first game. Even better, they added better lighing and new textures 
 to make the scenes of the game amazing.
  
  It is worth the buy, but it may be too short. When you play it first, you may think it's kind of 
 long. But when you play it a few more times, the game gets more shorter each time you play.
  
  Half Life 2: Episode 1 is a great continuing storyline to Half Life 2, and we now await the 
 next part of the best FPS series in America, Half Life 2: Episode 2, along after that, Half Life 
 2: Episode 3, TBA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taraboi1
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 15, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  I played this twice now: one time without the commentary node and the other with the commentary 
 nodes on. It was a good idea, but i recommend playing it without commentary node first, so after 
 when you play with comm enabled you'll know what it's all about. Although the story and graphics 
 were as interesting than in Half-Life 2 (graphics were a little better) the game was very short. 
 It took me only 6 straight hours to finish it (6 hours with all the glitches i had at first and 
 with the loading times...) . So i can't give it a 10 as i did to Half-Life 2, but the mark I'll 
 give it is decent for it :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriplePlay2425
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  The Half-Life 2 series is my favorite all-time series of games. Half-Life 2 is my favorite all-time 
 game, and this continues the game. Although it is much shorter than Half-Life 2, it is still a 
 great game with the same awesome gameplay, continuing where Half-Life 2 left off. This gives you 
 just what you need to tide you over until the next chapter in the series, Episode Two. I love these 
 games, and can't wait for the next one! I wouldn't say that this game was worth whatever the price 
 was when it first came out because it is short, but it is definitely worth the $10 you can download 
 it for from Steam! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ldavidtw2000
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 7, 2007 1:43 am PT
Review:  I was kinda upset when I finished the original game, cuz only Gordon escaped the citadel with the 
 help of G-man, and nobody else seems to be able to escape that huge explosion, especially Alex.
 
  
  I'm constantly amazed and amused by Valve's genius story making skill since hl1. I don't wanna 
 say any spoiler but yes Alex and everybody else is alive, except Breen.
  
  You'll see a few new units, and stuff to do. If you were impressed by hl2, you won't get too impressed 
 by its physics engine and environment interaction. It's really hard to describe, this is not a 
 new game, but neither is just a story expansion. It got new stuff, but not too amazing.
  
  it's short, for the price, but somewhat intense, cuz you know the clock is ticking and if you don't 
 do it quick you'll get blown into pieces... or smaller.
  
  gameplay ain't that much of a difference, same guns, same skills, same enemies, blah blah blah. 
 it's just fun for me to play the storyline and see what's coming. Yes I do buy games for stories, 
 it sounds like I'm a weirdo but these stories are really attracting. I would love to see what's 
 gonna happen between Vortigon and Gman.. and whoever is behind them.
  
  Anyway Ep2 is coming out soon with some good stuff, I'd say wait for it to come out and buy the 
 only bundle you get to choose, and it includes Ep1, I mean, why not? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lowmankind
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 5, 2007 9:06 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 probably didn't need to be extended except to resolve the odd cliff-hanger ending. 
 Its gameplay was solid and it never offered up a dull or tedious moment. The graphics were fantastic, 
 the sound perfect, and it was one of those rare shooters that is eminently replayable.
  
  Episode 1, the first of three new episodes, continues that story and adds new gameplay elements, 
 and that's really about it. You already know if you're going to play it, based on whether you liked 
 Half-Life 2 or not, and the only real question is whether it's worth it. Well, the answer is yes: 
 yes it is.
  
  The new gameplay elements aren't really much, yet they do much to add to the depth of the game. 
 Alyx now accompanies the player for most of the game, and having an AI companion help you through 
 is wonderful. She's more than competent, and will give good tips on how to accomplish your immediate 
 goals, as well as being awesome at killing your various foes. Other than that, you have a new enemy 
 -- the Combine Zombie, and some new puzzle ideas that are very satisfactory (such as the Antlion 
 nests you will encounter) .
  
  The graphics have been tweaked, but mostly in ambient ways, so you'll barely notice. The HDRI lighting 
 really adds mood to your various conflicts and encounters, and some of the animations are tweaked 
 to be just that little bit better.
  
  The game is short however - a fact that is countered by the low price and episodic nature of the 
 title, but still feels disappointing once you finish the game with the exit out of City 17. But 
 the final battle is a spectacular and immersive treat, and the exit out of the city is a fantastic 
 piece of in-game cinema.
  
  The sound is on par with its predecessor, but gains no great special mention, save for the dialog, 
 which is top-notch as ever. A particular treat is the moment you hear Dr Kleiner encouraging the 
 citizens of City 17 to, well, Alyx puts it best. Play the game and find out, then chuckle.
  
  You've already decided if you're going to play this. Just know that it is short, and you'll 
 be left wanting more, but while you do play through Episode 1, you'll have a great time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greece_rules
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2007 12:06 am PT
Review:  half-life 2 episode 1 is the most awseme game in da world! It expamds on the other charatcters 
 and it just awsome! u can pick up objects with the gravity gun and chuck it at the combines head 
 and they go flying. The multiplayers also awsome. Just make sure u have the internet becsue u have 
 to make an acount on steam. Also dont swear on the multyplayer because ull get benned. i maen when 
 u have the multiplayer, there are like 10 differnt serers. some of the servers are just wired, 
 but the ofcial one ( the fist server the one) is the best one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demon6786
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 11:20 pm PT
Review:  Loved it, it was a good expansion to the game, it was full of action and blood and stuff, and plus 
 shotguns. But it was too short and too easy!!
  
  The enemies and guns were all the same, nothing new there. The story was good, the gameplay was 
 good, the length, not so good. I beat it in an hour and a half, not a good thing, makes me wish 
 i didnt spend 20 bucks on it.
  
  It had a couple of hard parts, and the end movie was pretty cool. The shotty was awesome, as usual.. 
 It was a great game i liked it but next time, make it longer!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bflseanny
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 5, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  This was a very entertainment game. But definitely know that it is a short game. In fact, I was 
 quite surprised when I reached the end of the game. I experienced the What! That's it? feeling.
 
  
  But I kinda expected that from the fact that it is an expansion. The graphics are great and the 
 story definitely continues from the first game. It has a very episodic feel to it.
  
  Other than being a short game, it was fun to play and you definitely feel more of a connection 
 with Alex Vance. I'd recommend it to anyone. I can't wait to play Episode 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dickiedoesit
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 30, 2007 12:46 am PT
Review:  This game looks good and is a hoot to play. Picked this game up on fluke when i went to rent a 
 movie at blockbuster. No good movies to rent as always. This game came with the Halo 3 beta which 
 was a nice taste of what will be coming this Christmas from Bungie. Still glad i will have this 
 game to play until then. The strength and agility power ups keeps me playing this game through 
 to the end. If you like to blow up cars and lots of baddies this is the game for you. The driving 
 of the agency vehicles is tricky at first but becomes a blast when you receive a four star rating. 
 You pretty much just do all the different things one can do in this world until you have four in 
 everything. Then of course finish cleaning up the streets, agent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LT_Winters
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 28, 2007 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 did its predecessor proud by delivering an intense and action-packed single-player 
 campaign that featured a strong story, glorious graphics and sound, and some well-designed combat 
 and physics to drive it along. It was easily among the finest action games since, well, Half-Life 
 itself. So clearly, action gamers have been starving for more Half-Life action. Thanks to Valves 
 new episodic expansion system of the original game, Half Life 2: Episode One comes hot on the heels 
 of its parent game, bringing an extension of the story that picks up right after the originals 
 climactic finale. Unfortunately, while the game presents quite possibly the most intense and most 
 well-paced cut of Half-Life action in the franchises history, its brevity and lack of new and 
 innovative content dampens its value and disappoints those who were looking forward to some new 
 variety in gameplay.
  
  The games storyline continues seamlessly from the end of Half-Life 2, showing how Gordon and Alyx 
 escaped the Citadels apocalyptic fate. As the game begins, you must go back into the depths of 
 the Citadels smoldering ruins to shut down the reactor before thousands of civilians fleeing City 
 17 are killed. The storyline may disappoint those who were looking for some answers to the open 
 plot strings, but it succeeds resoundingly in providing direction and emotional motivation to the 
 action itself. You are always set up with goals and context, which helps to give the game some 
 continuity. The cliffhanger ending and several sneak-peek appearances of future enemies give players 
 a strong idea of what lies ahead after Episode One, but they also make the first chapter a bit 
 weaker because none of this content is present here.
  
  The gameplay, however, cannot be questioned. Barring a gimmicky puzzle-oriented opening sequence 
 where the supercharged gravity gun makes the combat somewhat trivial, the game ratchets up the 
 intensity and the manic fervor that makes Half-Life so enjoyable. The game is remarkably well-paced 
 thanks to its meager 5-6 hour length, and scenes of frantic combat and fantastic level design are 
 mixed almost seamlessly with puzzles and more cerebral challenges. Some of the set-piece battles, 
 such as a warehouse battle with a Combine helicopter stalking your overhead or a showdown with 
 an Ant Lion Queen, reuse some of Half-Life 2s successful elements, but revisit them from a different 
 perspective and with new challenges. It could be argued that this is the most intense and complete 
 and focused Half-Life game from a combat perspective, because each sequence benefits from an incredibly 
 taut presentation and design that propels you along your frantic journey out of City 17.
  
  The familiarity, however, brings a bit of a double-edged sword to the otherwise fantastic action. 
 With only one fairly derivative new enemy (a combination of a combine soldier and a zombie) and 
 no new weapons, it can feel at times like youre playing a best-of replay of Half-Life 2, however 
 enticing that may sound. The short stay of the game really magnifies this complaint; sometimes 
 it feels like the $20 episode was a mere rehash of a lot of content from the original, no matter 
 how much the team spices it up with new gameplay mechanics and creative level design. The tantalizing 
 glimpses at future enemies only further serves to demote this episode as a middle-ground between 
 greater things, as Gordons greatest accomplishment is simply leaving the City that he arrived 
 at in the original. The severe lack of storyline movement also contributes to a sense of disappointment 
 by the end.
  
  Yet these complaints can seem relatively meaningless when the dynamic and creative nature of Half-Life 
 gameplay is considered. While the same enemies and weapons are certainly involved, the sense of 
 deja-vu is outweighed by the fact that this style of action gaming really has yet to be matched 
 in terms of enjoyment since it was introduced in Half-Life, so the games quality cannot be questioned. 
 For every appearance of a familiar foe, there is always a subtle new wrinkle thrown in the gameplay 
 that makes it feel fresh. So while the complaint of recycled content is certainly valid, it does 
 not affect Half-Life 2: Episode One as it would affect most other games.
  
  The graphics remain a strong suit, reinforced by the HDR upgrade the Valve has given the source 
 engine going into the development process. A lot of visual elements come together to give Episode 
 One an immersive and impressive presentation. The level design will often use the HDR lighting 
 to its advantage, with dark and dreary combat arenas being juxtaposed dramatically with the bright 
 outdoors and the Citadels technological wonders. The character design and animation has also received 
 a facelift, and many of your allies and enemies will undertake increasingly complex maneuvers while 
 looking even more realistic than ever. The voice acting and sound effects, almost taken for granted 
 at this point, are again top-notch.
  
  In a testament to the focused nature of the game, the ending, for once in the Half-Life franchise, 
 seems to be a strong suit. A tense escort sequence followed by a climactic strider battle caps 
 off the action in Episode One just before all hell breaks loose and you are whisked off to the 
 eventual site of Episode Two, whenever that may come. It is a nice surprise, since the endings 
 of other Half-Life games seem like rushed misconceptions that dont deliver on their full potential. 
 Some more experienced shooter fans may bemoan the general lack of difficulty that is still present, 
 especially near the end, where it seems pretty tough to die in the games closing combat. These 
 ending sequences are so well presented, however, that the thrills remain intact.
  
  An important feature in the game is developer commentary, which will frequently pop up during gameplay 
 near particularly interesting or complicated scenes. The crew of Valve will enlighten players about 
 everything from level design and enemy placement to the inner workings of the Source engine (dont 
 worry if youre confused by these parts, we all are) and interesting tidbits about the storyline. 
 While it is recommended that players enjoy the campaign the whole way through without the commentary, 
 which can sometimes spoil puzzle and battle solutions, it is interesting enough to play through 
 the short campaign again to get a better understanding of the development process, significantly 
 adding to Episode Ones value.
  
  Half Life 2: Episode One is more of an encore than a true sequel or expansion on the originals 
 ideas, and though its content may have been recycled from the original, the sheer intensity and 
 expert design of the levels make Episode One a worthy member of the Half-Life franchise that most 
 fans of action games should readily enjoy. The games brevity is offset by the high quality throughout. 
 And the episodic system means that we shouldnt need to wait too much longer for Episode Two to 
 clear things up. Until then, Episode One is a content-packed dose of Half-Life action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFVIIROCKS
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 23, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  Episode one picks up right off where HL2 left off... letting you miss nothing. You are quick thrown 
 (literally thrown in a van by dog) back into the Citadel
  to slow down the inevitable explosion, to try and buy you some time to be able to get out of City 
 17. Episode one is all about your escape out of the city.. and thats it.. making it fairly short. 
 with help of Alyx and sometimes dog, it just adds to the simplicity of the game. The physics and 
 graphics of this game make it outstanding. Without them i think this game would of fallen hard. 
 HL2 Episode one is full of action and makes it a very fun one to play... it just seem like its 
 taking forever for the second episode to release. Valve you've done good this far... keep it up 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kratose7
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 20, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  Episode 1 is the first of 3 new episodes for Half Life 2. You spend most of the game with Alyx 
 by your side. The AI can fend for itself, so you don't have to babysit her the whole time. There 
 are no new weapons, and few new characters, but what you have to work with does the job. After 
 dealing with the Citadel, you spend the entire game making your way out of City 17. The developer 
 commentary is a nice touch which helps the game with replay value. Not a whole lot is different 
 from Half Life 2, but the graphics have been touched up a bit. It took me around 7 hours to play 
 through the first time, and I have played through a few times since. Overall, it's a good solid 
 game and well worth $20. I recommend it to anyone interested in FPS's who has a descent PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitch774
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 14, 2007 2:26 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 Episode one is a great addition to the Half Life Family. All bar one thing. It's too 
 short. About 4 hours the first time through; a very fast four hours. Other than the length of the 
 game I found it very enjoyable. The graphics and AI had both been given a boost since Half Life 
 2 and it made the game that little bit more special. I liked the way the HDR would glow whine I 
 looked at the big chunks of Citadel at the beginning, or how the fires raging throughout the game 
 had a realistic glow about them. Shining the torch in Alyx's face was a nice addition, and it was 
 good to know she was there pretty much the whole time, not running off somewhere. She was much 
 more talkative this time around which made her character all the more believable.
  
  Great game and a necessary part to any Half Life Collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrKirios
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 13, 2007 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Half Life is without a doubt, one of the greatest FPS out there, its fusion of storytelling, gameplay, 
 and immersive atmosphere, can be resumed with one word: outstanding. Half Life 2 inherits these 
 great elements, adding some incredible graphics, and tries to expand them to develop further the 
 story, characters and general elements of the Half Life universe, but apparently one follow up 
 is not enough and Valve has decide to develop the story via add-ons called Half Life 2 Episodes.
 
  Episode one picks up immediately after the end of Half Life 2, its main goal is to develop the 
 story and characters so youll spend most of the time trying to evacuate City 17, but not alone 
 this time, as most of the games length your sidekick Alyx will take an important part in the action 
 too, helping you solving puzzles and sometimes cover you in rapid fire situations.
  I felt this was an interesting feature, you get to interact more with this character which helps 
 to develop more the relation between the main character and his allies. Episode Ones others features 
 include an enhanced source engine, you can enjoy its beautiful rendered environments, there are 
 a couple of new enemies as well, but dont expect any new weapons, as Episode One uses the same 
 as in Half Life 2.
  I think Half Lifes main feature is its story, and that is what Episode One is about: story. I 
 recommend this expansion for those who want to enjoy a great follow of a great game, and to know 
 what happened at the end of the original game.
  Expect between 4-6 hours of gameplay, as this is really a short expansion, but if you can overcome 
 Episode Ones only flaw and you enjoyed Half Life 2, then I recommend you give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nevans963
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 12, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  it was what I and im sure many other Half life 2 players expected the episode to be it took the 
 new aspects from the lost coast and intergrated them into this episode and prooved to be rather 
 entertaining.
  
  I was however a little disapointed as to how easy it was i completed in such a short and easy time..
 
  
  I do like the idea of these episodes as waiting 4 years for a new half life game to come out would 
 be a little annoying as i am a big fan of the Half-life games.
  
  I'm eager to get the next episode of half-life as this had came to be as a bonus i expected to 
 wait a long time until half life 3 but these episodes i think will prove to be great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nzilla
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  This is an expansion of Half-life 2, and its still great. Just read my HL2 review. However, lets 
 talk about whats great about this expansion.
  First off unlike the first installment in Episode one youll have a constant companion in the way 
 of the lovely Alyx and most of the game will be you trying to get the heck out of dodge as you 
 escape from the doomed City 17. Its nice to have a friend, especially a friend that has infinite 
 ammo and decent aim. Shes funny, has a good attitude, supportive, and is well armed. The perfect 
 woman. Except she doesnt have a flashlight, which becomes an issue in a few levels. Oh well. I 
 suppose thats why she has you around. (Just wait until she gets the shotgun and youll feel like 
 proposing to her right there.)
  Episode one has all the greatness of HL2 except its way too short! It leaves you frothing at 
 the mouth for more goodness. Personally I cannot wait until Valve releases the next installment. 
 Until then, get the game and play it, and get yourself a laugh when the good Doctor tells everyone 
 to get busy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minglis
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 11, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  If you've played half life 2 there's no need to discuss what this game is like, basically episode 
 one wraps up a few of the loose ends that occurred in the story at the end of hl2 and now you are 
 just escaping from city 17. HL2 episode one plays exactly the same as hl2 which is fair enough 
 considering its an expansion pack, however episode one adds absolutely nothing new except a few 
 new bad guys and while it is still fun it has no replay value at all and it will take you about 
 5 hours to finish which is ridiculous, even for an expansion. They may aswell just have had made 
 this for hl2 the original game, it wouldnt have taken much more time and it will leave every player 
 the same empty feeling you got at the end of hl2.
  
  overall, good but incredibly disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthew254
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 9, 2007 5:42 pm PT
Review:  short but sweet - would have liked to see more and different environments (like in half life 2) 
 still fun though short but sweet - would have liked to see more and different environments (like 
 in half life 2) still fun though short but sweet - would have liked to see more and different environments 
 (like in half life 2) still fun though short but sweet - would have liked to see more and different 
 environments (like in half life 2) still fun though short but sweet - would have liked to see more 
 and different environments (like in half life 2) still fun though short but sweet - would have 
 liked to see more and different environments (like in half life 2) still fun though 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuckboy
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 4, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Half life blew my socks off. Half life 2 damn near blew my feet off. Half life episode 1 had a 
 lot to live up to, and despite its relatively short length, it did that and more.
  
  The action in Ep1, like the other Half life games, consists mainly of intense shootouts with soldiers, 
 battles with hordes of zombies and alien creatures with a puzzle solving element. The great thing 
 about the game is that many of the combat sequences will be a puzzle in themselves, such as using 
 a rollermine to distract a sniper's attention whilst you run from cover to cover.
  
  A lot of emphasis in Ep1 is put on working cooperatively with Alyx, a bright, savvy girl with a 
 knack for opening doors and shooting zombies in the head. There is a convention that female video 
 cameras must have enormous breasts and not a great deal of personality, but Half life 2 completely 
 shattered this with Alyx, who is uncannily human. Alyx is a big focus for the game. She is with 
 you for almost the entire game, and often speaks her mind about the situation and gives helpful 
 advice, even joking with the player. So what USEFUL things does she do? She will help you out a 
 great deal in combat; she uses a fast firing glock pistol that is pretty effective at taking down 
 mosnters and soldiers alike. She uses other weapons over the course of the game too, but I will 
 leave this for you to find out.
  
  The combat is as intense as ever; each type of enemy needs to be fought in a different way, and 
 you will soon learn that you need to be careful to prioritise threats before they blow up in your 
 face (literally in the case of the new enemy) . One small problem is due to the very linear level 
 design, the Combine Soldier AI is a little stifled; they are given little opportunity to flank 
 or take cover and it often seems that their only option is to simply run towards the player.
  
  The graphics are better than ever. The boys at Valve have added in some new graphical jubblies 
 including specular lighting, higher resolution textures and HDR lighting. HDR lighting is a great 
 new addition to the source engine; HDR stands for High Dynamic Range. This means bright lights 
 can be really bright, wheras dark places can be really dark, but detail can be seen in both by 
 way of automatic exposure control. This isn't just a fancy gimmick, it really makes an impact on 
 the visual quality of the game. It especially improves the quality of reflections on water and 
 other objects.
  
  The reason why Alyx's speech and acting in the game is very important is because episode 1 isn't 
 just a game really. It's more like a playable film. The downside of this is that it will play out 
 in pretty much the same way each time you play it. The upside is that it is an absolutely staggering 
 experience; everything about the game feels so real and detailed. I honestly don't think that any 
 half life game or indeed any game has been so successful in immersing the player into the game 
 world.
  
  The game is six hours long, but the six hours are probably going to be some of the most explosive, 
 detailed and fun six hours of gaming you've ever had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2007 11:07 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 belongs to the very top of the FPS genre, but can HL2: Ep1 overcome that? I'll tell 
 you the answer right away: NO.
  
  The game is fantastic tho, it only doesn't win over Half-Life 2 because its TO short, so incredibly 
 short, Valve even made a new Bloom and HDR function for the game, its a real pity the game is so 
 incredibly short.
  
  Gameplay:
  Half-Life 2's gameplay, the enemy's you'll be fighting are Combine soldiers, mostly the Elite kind, 
 but you'll have a nice BLUE Gravity gun to shoot some Combine soldiers across the room for the 
 majority of the game, its just the same routine Half-Life 2 offered us.
  
  Theres another bad thing: You won't be playing anything else then in the Combine citadel, which 
 makes it repetive and kind of predictable, especially at the part where you need to criss-cross 
 around the citadel to fire plasma balls into sockets.
  
  Theres no new weapons or enemy's to, but no, their is a new enemy called a Zombie, how Alyx calls 
 them, which is a Combine under posession of a headcrab.
  
  Graphics:
  Their better then HL2 graphics, its the same engine but it also offers us HDR, which is basicly 
 advanced version of bloom.
  
  Its a bad thing you'll mostly play in the Citadel or at a underground garage so you won't be expierencing 
 some new outdoor maps to see the HDR in all its glory.
  
  AI:
  Standard HL2 AI, check my Half-life 2 review for the AI.
  
  Story:
  Gordon and Alyx realise 
 the Citadel hasn't been destroyed, only triggered for self-destruction, Vortigaunts teleport you 
 and Alyx outside the Citadel to avoid you from dying, they also take care of the G-man for some 
 reason, I don't know, its you're mission to kill more combine soldiers and do more stuff Gordon 
 always does.
  
  Is it a good FPS:
  Yeah, its just HL2 with a few new chapters to it, and HDR and the Zombine, that never can't be 
 anything bad, if you liked HL2, then buy this game, its only ten bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beefycake
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  well.. what can i say about this game... its just an expansion set.. thats it end of review... Right? 
 Of course not. There much to say about the interesting Expansion to the Game of the Year, Half-Life 
 2...
  
  Now Half- Life 2 need no introduction, but for a quickie sum up for those never played it.. Gordon 
 Freeman, our main guy, battles against the Combines, when all seem victorious... uh oh.. a cliff 
 hanger ending Wat.. and now back to this game! This is the latest addition to the half-life series, 
 and it take you back to where Half-Life 2 ended. Just when you ( Gordon Freeman) and your female 
 hottie Alyx, are about to kiss the world goodbye... they are transported safely from harm.. and even 
 Gordon is taken away from the G-man who apparently does seem happy after coldly saying... well 
 just see about that! Gordon wakes up from the rumble along with Alyx, and now theres even more 
 bad news.. The Main core from the Citidal is about to go boom, and its up to Gordon and Alyx to 
 escape from the blast. We all can expect that for an expansion set.. it much shorter than the original, 
 but Episode 1 is surprisingly an impressive expansion set. You'll be familiar with all the same 
 weapons... The pistol, smg, the Gravity gun and the Crow bar ofcourse.. Most of the characters are 
 brought back.. and yes DOG is there too :/. The difference in HL2: episode 1, your no longer going 
 solo on missions, now Alyx is with you all the way. She's really
  intelligent.. able to crack into computer.. an incredible shooter and fighter.. and shes got a real 
 sense of humor.. a ZOMBINE? you'll see....
  
  One major improvement of Episode 2 is the graphic. With a brand new lighting touch to the game.. it 
 bring out a extra realism towards gaming. The missions are shorter.. but theyre quite challenging 
 and fun! The only problems with this game is that they're no new multiplayer features or extras... but 
 the biggest problem is once again another cliff hanger ending... what gonna happen!?!?
  
  If you loved HL2 then this a must buy for any hardcore fan of this series..
  the ending is gonna 
 kill you... did Alyx and Gordon make... what gonna happen to the Combine.. are Eli and Dr. Kliener 
 ok? what about Barney and Dr. Mossmen and what about LAMAAR?... LAMAAR!?!?
  hmmm.. youll have to find out in Episode 2... DOH! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sarnaath
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 17, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  This is a worthy continuation of HL2. It doesn't have any of the contrived scenes as HL2 does. 
 Although it has a more natural story progression, I felt out of place without the crowbar for the 
 first 3rd of the episode.
  
  I did not like pairing up with Alyx thoughout the game. She was constantly in the way, talked too 
 much, and generally couldn't make up her mind whether she and Gordon should flee the city immediately, 
 or stand around and depsair at Combine evilness. Valve had her make questionable decisions in order 
 to advance the story line, so I never felt like I was in control over what I was doing. You never 
 really are in FPS games, but usually you can suspend your disbelief. Not with Episode One. I felt 
 like Gordon was nothing but a hired mercenary, whereas after HL I felt Gordon was a hero.
  
  Squad tactics are extremely limited. You lead, they follow. Ok except when you have to escort 
 citizens and tactically it would be better for them to lead and you to bring up the rear and provide 
 cover. I mean, Gordon does have the HV suit, but there is no way to use that to your advantage 
 in certain sections of the game.
  
  But overall I did like Episode One and wil buy Episode Two when it comes out. I gave Sound a low 
 score because the sound on Vista x64 was bad and stuttering in some sections. HL2 was the same. 
 Could be my 680i motherboard plus Vista x64 drivers, dunno. Episode One about midway through started 
 crashing every map load. It was almost unplayableI reinstalled it on Win XP so I could finish it. 
 Lucky I had a dual boot set up. That cleared up the sound issues as well. I didn't factor the crashing 
 in to my score, since Vista is so new. But no other games have given me any sound issues, so I 
 counted that. Sorry if that seems inconsistent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MxAa
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 1, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Overview: heh, all i can say is i was not expecting to find this game actually better then the 
 original. Let me tell you, it is...
  
  Game play: This time around, you get the girl from the half life 2 as your full time partner. Now 
 its a lot easier to kill things with her help. With this in mind, there are more enemies. The gameplay 
 feels so different from half life 2 yet so much the same. The length keeps it from being best single 
 player in 7 years. its only a couple of levels long (over before you realize it) .
  
  Graphics: the hdr lighting is a great new updated feature witch looks real good this time around. 
 Although i think the textures were still a little better in half life 2.
  
  Sound: same great sound
  
  Overall: buy this game, its 10 bucks on steam now anyway... great 
 game... no episode (2 or 3) will probably ever surpass this one in my opinion... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: james457
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 29, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Even though it is short and a little buggy on vista, this is one amazing game. I had to quit and 
 restart a few times because it crashed, but that wasn't much of hassle. The graphics are insanely 
 good. It is better than Half-Life 2 because you have a teammate. Alyx grows on you and helps you 
 get into it. She is quite smart and is really useful, espically at the start when you only have 
 the gravity gun and she has the pistol. There is some humor spread through the game. Good storyline 
 and well done puzzles. Some of them had me straching my head for a few minutes, only to go DUH! 
 once I figured it out. Overall: AWESOME. I recommd this to anyone who even remotely enjoys first 
 person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NitroDriven
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 18, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  There isn't much to say about Episode One. The upgrades to the Source engine make it look even 
 better than before and it drives the story to a very interesting point. Episode One's gameplay 
 is a bit different than Half-Life 2's because you spend the whole game by Alyx's side. I personally 
 liked this, as we needed a break from the lone-ranger style play.
  
  Bottom line is that whatever Episode One offers is a very good addition to Half-life 2. A veteran 
 FPS player can blow through this in 5 hours. It's very short, but whatever there is is very good. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: savage252005
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2007 6:37 pm PT
Review:  Now this is a game, it has everything from top notch graphics to superb game play. The story line 
 is incredibly smart and well thought. This is a real game folks, put the dumb wordof@gcraft down 
 and come play a real game. If you have a high end video card and decent ram then you must play 
 this game and put that hard ware to good use, this game is totally wicked. This and BF2, Farcry, 
 Half life 2, F. E. A. R., are the best pc games of now, only the upcoming game Crysis will rule over 
 this game, thats how good this game is. This is as good as direct X 9 gets to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 16bitkevin
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Episode One is an excellent expansion to Half-Life 2. Everything you find in HL2 can be found here. 
 There are no new weapons, but a new teamwork mechanic has been added. Throughout the game, you'll 
 have to depend on Alyx, and she'll depend on you. It's a breath of fresh air from the usual lone-wolf 
 formula that the Half-Life series is known for. The visuals in Episode One are nicer than in HL2. 
 This is because Episode One is running on a newer version of the Source Engine, which feature some 
 new and impressive lighting effects. It's amazing how the Source Engine managed over the years 
 without looking dated. Characters look more realistic than ever, especially Alyx. Alyx shows some 
 of the most realistic looking emotions ever seen in a video game. At times you might even wonder 
 if Alyx is real or not. The sound in Episode One are also superb. The game features a soundtrack 
 that fits the mood of the game just perfectly. The audio is nice and crisp. The voice-acting is 
 just fantastic. Definately Hollywood level voice-acting. The voices and superb lip-syching just 
 brings the characters to life. You'll be battling through the same enemies you encountered in HL2, 
 with the exception of one new enemy you'll have to see for yourself. Some of the enemies are tougher 
 than they were in HL2. Combine's are a little smarter in Episode One. A Combine soldier will call 
 his squadmates if he sees you. They are definately more intimidating in Episode One. There were 
 puzzles in HL2, there are puzzles here. Some of the puzzles might actually stump you, but they 
 are still your typical HL2 puzzles.
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone who's played HL2. It's actually pretty short (about 5-7) 
 hours, but it's still an enjoyable ride and is worth the $20 via Steam. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luisfmar
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 5, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  How would you rate a Mercedes that goes dead after every 5 miles on the freeway, it takes another 
 5 minutes to start it again, just to see its engine die after another 5 miles.
  Think if a computer on an airplane goes off every five minutes on your next flight, will you board 
 such an airplane ever again ?
  Well, this is just what happens with Episode 1 and Valve's much hyped Source engine. No matter 
 how beautiful is that Mercedes, or how touted is that Airbus 340, you don't want to buy such a 
 piece of crap. Whereas this not true for a Mercedes or an Airbus plane, it's exactly what happens 
 with this game.
  See for yourself at :
  http://forums. steampowered. com/forums/showthread. php? t=500297
  http://en. wikipedia. org/wiki/Source_engine#Common_issues 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rottenjoe
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 1, 2007 4:40 am PT
Review:  Half-life 2 episode 1 is the first acual expansion for one of the games in this trilogy.
  
  The story picks up right after the ending of the previous game and as soon as you start to play 
 you are automaticaly sent into the massive fights and puzzles that half life is known for. The 
 focus of this game is to simply get as far away from City 17 as possible. Alyx Vance, a rather 
 compelling Lady character, by your side during this entire game. She will help you lots in this 
 game so be prepared for teamwork, and lots of naging. With no new weapons so you get to enjoy ur 
 gravity gun some more.
  With some improvment this game will keep you wanting to play this for hours a day. The only thing 
 wrong about this game is the overall playing length. It's unbelievably short, and is sort of a 
 waste of money if you compare ur 20 bucks to the length of the game. This Game is recommened to 
 the Half-life fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hugh000270
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 28, 2007 6:17 am PT
Review:  Alright, I managed to finish Half-Life 2 then one day, I saw this game. I thought that it needs 
 Half-Life 2 although it doesn't but still needs a steam account. By the time I buy this, I liked 
 it since it's has better graphics, sounds and more fighting. As of, old enemies appear from barnacles 
 to new ones called Zombines.
  
  The game is generally better than Half-Life 2 although it tends to end quickly. I managed to finish 
 it in 6 hours even when I fooled around summoning NPC's and making them fight against each other.
 
  
  The game is nice and I recommend you guys buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caxen
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2007 11:41 pm PT
Review:  Episode one takes place brief hours after Half-life 2.
  I must say Half-life 2: Episode one is probably the only game I've finished in one day. It is very 
 short, but oh my god so damn good it's made me go jaw dropping beyond counting. Episode one feels 
 like Half-life 2 like an almost perfect game, there are no flaws except the shortage of play-time. 
 You can actually imagine how much work there is behind all this.
  
  It's funny after three years I still think Half-life 2 is the best looking game ever made, probably 
 cause I've never seen this amount of detail in a game before, it's sick. Valve must have the best 
 visual designers in gaming history. The animations are so slick and realistic and the environments 
 are exciting and alive. It feels like this fantasy world, and I just want to know more about it. 
 I can't get enough.
  
  The story in Half-life 2 is one of my favorites ever in a game, it's mysterious and full of holes 
 but yet so damn immersive and big. In episode one you learn a bit more about the combine, other 
 than that you are basicly just trying to flee from city 17 which are about to colapse because of 
 the huge damage Gordon caused to the core of the citadel. Through the majority of the game you 
 will have Alyx by your side. Nice touch with the teamwork, adds variety to Half-life's lone-wolf 
 gameplay.
  
  You will run into many new genius gaming moments in this expansion.
  For example, Alyx does not have a flashlight so you must light the way for her through dark tunnels 
 and shine light upon the enemies you wish her to fire at. Another addition is that the antlions 
 are pouring into the city from holes in the concrete. To stop them, you have to cover the holes 
 with debris using the gravity gun.
  
  The gravity gun is more useful than ever, I'm not going to spoil any more moments from this great 
 game, but I had a blast with my favorite weapon in gaming history thats for sure.
  
  The overall run, gun, throw stuff and run remains intact from Half-life 2 and is more intense than 
 ever. One chapter was so awesome, no more spoilers but oh geez what the heck. Zombies vs Combine 
 soldiers in a hospital. That was one big slaughter fest.
  
  Ok, so the last part to cover is the sound.
  Not much to say, the voice acting is very good and 
 does it job well. The music is wonderfull and adds a lot of atmosphere to the battles.
  
  Bottom line then.
  This is a must have for those who played Half-life 2.
  It's one of the most 
 amazing and ambitious games I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 6.7
Date: Mar 9, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  I know this is 1 part of 3 in Valves need idea to do Episodic content, however i'd much prefer 
 to wait 6 years for one massive innovative long game, than have cheap expansions once every 1 - 
 2 years. Now the game was just HL2 made on the esact same looking levels you've played with minor 
 gameplay changes. I like how you see more of dog and Alyx and your friends but that really doesn't 
 make it good enough. What makes it worse is half the levels are annoying and just not fun. Take 
 for example when you had to transer your alliance across a street with **** shooting at you then 
 through this train bit with gaurds constantly coming down. The AI just got annoying and it was 
 ok the firts time but on your 3rd and 4th it was just boring. I also thought the dark carp park 
 levels wern't fun at all.
  
  The only bits i could say which were good was when Dog chucked you over a giant cliff in a car 
 at the start and at the end with the train.
  
  Overall its the same game with the same gameplay just with the levels changed abit and much shorter 
 + no vehicles and now u see more of Alyx. The sounds are all the same and so are the graphics but 
 now with HDR lol.
  
  I was disappointed, it just didn't have that quality of a HL game that makes them special and i 
 hope they bin this episode content after the 3rd and go make HL3 or 4.
  
  + It took me like 4 hours to complete lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 8, 2007 11:08 am PT
Review:  I have to say if HL is to Opposing Force.. Ep1 is to HL2. The game puts you in the thick of it 
 early on.. the storyline is even more fleshed out... but the lack of new weapons kinda hampers 
 it.. in fact you have one less... no antlion spores! course they were pretty much useless in most 
 of HL2 anyway.. so no real biggie. Another cliffhanger but we know that Gordon survives and that 
 Alyx is prolly okay too! Gameplay: Superb.. as always expected of Valve nowadays
  
  Graphics: Great even with the new enhancements.. Sound: Still the same.. HL2 is aging quite well 
 :)
  
  Value: good .. but could have done better... does offer the commentary track which kinda makes 
 up for it.
  
  my own score of 10 for a great expansion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SOCCERBALLS
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  ok well i had posted a HL2 review and I said it was awsome. well this is one basiclly the same 
 thing. but shorter. MUCH shorter. this game will take you only about 6-7 hours to complete. i beat 
 it in one day. but that said, all the game play you know and love it back in this X-Pack . but 
 now you start witht the GG gun. (the one that is Blue) . it is acually i nice way to start off. 
 the end of HL2 left you guesing on wtf was going on. This will to. look, if ya LOVED HL2, then 
 just get this even though its short, its got all the gameplay youi know and love from the HL seriers. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sam_2006
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 21, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  Half-life 2 episode 1 could have been a greater game if it was longer enough, because I finished 
 it before I knew it and it turned pretty flat in terms of game play; it is a bit linear since the 
 previous half-life 2 was a blast in terms of game play. there are no vehicles and absolutely no 
 diversity in the game... it feels like they have taken some action phases of half-life 2 and put 
 them together to come up with this game. I don't say that this game is a total failure, however 
 I feel that it has somehow let me down a bit; obviously I didn't expect it to be terribly short 
 and so linear this way. there are a few changes in terms of graphics, which I really didn't find 
 that important as changes, and also some new enemies that you fight (most importantly the zombified 
 soldiers) . however, these miner additions would not give the game any further strength if it was 
 that short and that linear (shoot and move on) . on the other hand, half-life remains a great game 
 on the whole as it has great graphics and legendary history. Well, if yu're a fan of the series, 
 you will definitely enjoy this one, although not for quite a while. but if you are not a fan but 
 just someone who loves FPS games in general, I would not recommend this one since it's plagued 
 with short life mostly. one more point; Half life 2 is actually your best choice over this episode 
 if you want a perfect game hhhh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlbinoGoose
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 Episode Two is the first out of three instalments in Valves episodic Half-Life 2 Seriese. 
 Since this is apart of a Episodic seriese, there not going to be full length games. So that means 
 It's not going to take 8+ hours to beat even for the most advanced gamer out there. Well anyway, 
 HL2 E2 is Spectacular! Even thow it has a length of a Lord Of The Rings movie it is still very 
 very fun. The Graphics are very well and detail is rich, thanks to Valves new HDR (High Dynamic 
 Range) graphics are the best since HL2 Lost Coast wich uses HDR. The audio in the game is very 
 well done, even small things like bullet shells falling onto the ground after shooting a Ant Gaurd 
 to death with a double-barrel shotgun to big things like falling debree from the citadel are done 
 so well that it can send you into the imersive world of City 17. The gameplay is somewhat dissapointing 
 only because of the length of it (2-4 hours) but it is still remains same as HL2 ecsept this time 
 Alyx Vance is at your side the entire time. The AI for Alyx is great, in the time I played not 
 even once was she doing somthing to a dissadvantage to the player. Well anyway the Sound Is Great, 
 The Graphics are Amazing, and The Game play is equaly Great and Fun as the Original HL2. I would 
 Definetley recodmend this game to any one who has sort of experience with a FPS, but if you do 
 buy this game please make sure to buy Half Life and Half Life 2 if you have never played them or 
 it would just be stupid then... Well anyway I give Half-Life 2 Episode Two a 10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Triple_H90
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 15, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2: Episode One is the best game ever to be so short. I mean, it ends before you know 
 it. I started playing it, and finished it right there. The game is extremely short. Half-Life 2: 
 Episode One has a little improved graphics and has the same amazing gameplay as Half-Life 2 had. 
 I mean it's not a totally different game, it's actually the same. No big changes and it's very, 
 very short. So I of course recommend it if you're a fan of Half-Life series. But if you're new 
 to this game, then I recommend playing Half-Life 2 first, because it's much longer. And I think 
 that's an awful idea to make this game in episodes. They could wait a little and make Half-Life 
 3, which would've been very good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Superdude475
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 10, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  When Half-Life 2 was released about 2 years ago, it was 1 of the most impressive games I've played, 
 and like any other half-life fan I couldn't wait for the sequel.
  
  Gameplay 8/10 - Though the overall formula is untouched, the features new ideas that keeps the 
 game interesting. Half-life 2-1 features a team dynamic that was experimented with though out the 
 series, back in HL1 you could recruit security grauds to help you. In HL2 rebels would help you 
 out if they saw you also Alex would pop in from time to time. Now in HL2-1 since you and Alex are 
 escaping from city 17 it seems best if you fight together. Without Alex helping you it's almost 
 a garentee that you would be dying over &amp; over again esspecially from the antlions. Though 
 the game makes this too easy because Alex seems to have infinate health. The game does lack vehicles 
 and any new weaponry but, makes up for that by delivering a satisfing experience.
  
  Graphics 9/10 - The game runs on the source engine. Though it's a bit out-dated, it still manages 
 to empress at times (esspecially during the end sequence) . The models of everything and everyone 
 seem to be untouched which means everything looks the same from the graffiti on the building to 
 Alex &amp; her assets . ;-D
  
  Sound 10/10 - Once again the game delivers hollywood calibur voice acting as well as killer sound 
 effects and an awsome soundtrack, at times you might be humming a familiar tune. The characters 
 all sound the same &amp; very realistic. Esspecially Alex, wether she's making convincing zombie 
 noises or barkin' orders, or when your listening to Dr. Kliner's speech being played over &amp; 
 over again the acting is full of humor, and realism.
  
  Replay Value 6/10 - Like everyone's been saying the game is tooooo short. While the other Half 
 Life's have had over 10 very long chapters, episode 1 features only 5 chapters and they aren't 
 all that long. So you can complete this game in a fraction of the time it takes to complete the 
 other HL's. Also the doesn't come with a multiplayer component so if your looking for some multiplayer 
 action your stuck HL2 Deathmatch (if you bought it) .
  
  Overall Tilt 10/10 - While it's terribly short the game does impress with it's cool puzzles, super 
 gravity gun, and Alex by your side. It boasts some of the best Half Life gameplay to date but, 
 like Gamespot said it's over before you know it. Also leaves you with a cliff hanger ending while 
 it sucks because now you have to wait for EP.2 the story in it is pretty interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yellosnolvr
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 5, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  The beginning was sort of distorted; starting off outside the citadel. The strange part was that 
 the various puzzles and other little gameplay extenders were every where. Including on the way 
 to the core and at the part of buying time for you and Alyx for your escape by fixing the core 
 and slowing a meltdown of the citadel and eventually city 17.
  Throughout the gameplay, and when NOT in a puzzle stage, the gameplay is fairly amazing. The close-quarter 
 combat between you and the headcrabs was actually unprecedented. Different than the half-life 2 
 encounters. And introducing more enemies throughout gameplay, and new features such as HDR and 
 the health+ammo bars next to your crosshair saving precious milliseconds so your way to exploit 
 the enemies' strengths is easier. Even though it's a visual and audio masterpiece, frankly an upgrade 
 completely from hl2, it's all about gameplay. FPSs live off of gameplay and the fun you can have 
 from connecting with the characters in the game. Episode 1 did just that, but the gameplay was 
 filled with puzzles, otherwise Episode 1 exceeded the limit in action games. It was over before 
 you knew it, the final strider scene was a bit easy compared to the earlier bits of the game and 
 didn't seem like a bossfight, then the ending came with one hell of a cliff hanger. Its alright 
 to have a cliff hanger, but you didnt even know what happened... and that was my problem.
  What you get for your money is not worth it, just buy Half-life orange on XBOX 360 (not ps3) and 
 enjoy your money with that. That comes with EP1 and 2, so you get a better deal out of that.
  Well, peace out and just stick with gameplay videos rather than buy the game right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TW2004
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 31, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2: Episode One is the follow up and takes place immediately after HL2.
  
  The graphics have improved quite allot since HL2, the face visuals and animations (especially on 
 Alyx) are amazing, I have never seen a game with such depth to the characters. The voice acting 
 is top notch and the sounds unique.
  
  The problem is it's over too soon, if it was just an hour or so longer I wouldnt of hesitated 
 to give this a near perfect score.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode One does not fail to impress, and follows up Half-Life 2 as a worthy sequel. 
 And this is no easy feat given the game that it is following. The commentary mode on top of everything 
 else really seems more like a great send off after beating the game. You get to unlock all the 
 mystery behind and get sort of a recap on everything that happened while you were playing through. 
 Valve really has done a great job showing people that episodic content doesn't have to be such 
 a bad thing and can give the developers a chance to implement changes to the code as hardware becomes 
 more and more powerful with time. The game is absolutely worth playing through and should not be 
 overlooked in any case and it will always have a place in my heart.
  
  Can't wait till Episode Two!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryan72
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 29, 2007 10:02 am PT
Review:  Unlike HL2 which I'll consider a full novel this is a 'novella' which of course is a 'mini-novel', 
 and as I state in my opening remark its a Cliffhanger and it did its job well of 'explaining' vague 
 events while creating new ones... for you to ponder. Plus great action as expected, and Alyx is 
 the cutest lil' character w/some great 'lines'... ( is he saying we should all GET BUSY??? lol) .
 
  So I would say get this game if you enjoyed HL2, but don't be bummed when the ride ends for its 
 just setting us up for the next assault. I'm getting a real 'Empire Strikes Back' but more like 
 'The Combine Strikes Back' in Episode 2... trying to re-establish thier dominion. Should be some 
 good stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Half_Life_
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 24, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  Just when you thought valve thought of everything possible, they design an edition to the HL2 series 
 that isn't here to disappoint. Some how they managed to still keep the gameplay fresh an and immersive 
 even after just playing half-life 2, episode 1 is still great. I highly recommend you get this 
 one, even if you're remotely interested in the half-life 2 series. It was a little short though, 
 keep in mind it only has a few chapters. But by the end it'll have you begging for episode 3, i 
 guarantee. Overall, it's a great game and I highly recommend you at least play the first couple 
 chapters, but the final chapter's what you should be playing towards, it's solid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ish_gibbor
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 19, 2007 8:52 pm PT
Review:  Pretty much more of the same, which is not a bad thing. I loved half life 2. I was disapointed 
 there was no fight against those tall large robots. Well there was this one, but you are high up, 
 and it is only one. Story - The story progressed slowly, you do not learn much new stuff. Not an 
 epic story like half life 2. It leaves off suddenly for episode 2, which I expected. But the story 
 for the most part did not add much and was not that interesting. Gameplay - level design was pretty 
 good, but not enough real situation puzzles. I thought some of the fighting was better in this 
 game than half life 2. Sound - to much echo and I could not get rid of it. Graphics - After playing 
 my 360 the graphics are not what I remember them being. I played with everything maxed out too. 
 But after playing the 360 I see how out dated half life 2 is. But still looks pretty good. Not 
 worth buying in my oppenion. Not like you can rent PC games though. Buy used? Get it some other 
 way? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arvuti12
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 14, 2007 5:58 am PT
Review:  Half life 2 episode one is amazing, game with impressive graphics and good effects.
  
  You start outside of citadel where you are under the rocks. Dog pulls them away and you are free 
 to see what happened with citadel. You also get your gravity gun.
  
  This game is short... Its shorter than half life 2. But it isn't that short that you can complete 
 with 2-3hours. And also it isn't that easy.
  
  Your mission is to get to the train station with Alyx and escape the city 17.
  Before you reach 
 that you need to slow down the transmission inside the citadel you need to be inside some creepy 
 tunnels what are dark and full of zombies. And you need to be in city 17 fighting with antilions, ant 
 guards and combines to surive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChestyMcGee
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 8, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  First off I will note all of the faults with this game:
  1. It crashes fairly frequently
  2. It is less than half the length of Half Life 2
  3. Only one new feature
  
  You shouldnt 
 expect too much from an expansion pack, but you have to admit it is called an EXPANSION pack. Last 
 year, Dawn of War had its second expansion pack  Dark Crusade, that added in two armies and a 
 whole new campaign including new multiplayer maps as well. Half Life 2  Episode 1, adds in only 
 one new enemy and something like four new single player missions.
  
  But this game is obviously not all badhey, its a Half Life game; how can it be bad? The game 
 adds more onto an already great game and advances the story further and sets up Episode 2 nicely. 
 So, if you like Half Life 2, you should definitely buy Episode 1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fixer38
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 4, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  Episode one is great addition to the Half Life 2. You have the sweet gameplay from Half Life 2 
 and the still awsome characters, eviorment and afcorse Alix. In Half Life 2 we did not see Alix 
 way too often and it did not feel as she was helping you out that much, more importantly Half Life 
 2 was a lone-wolfs adventure. Episode one fixes that problem and fixes it good. Six hours of gameplay 
 that you get are so packed with everything that at the end you will be drooling for more. Mostly 
 you are still in City 17 or whats left of it. Half Life 2 ended with a explosion and some sort 
 of a time freeze. The Gman walked in and started talking with you. It was all a mystery how Alix 
 survived that but Episode one shows that to you. Rigth from the start were dog finds you under 
 a pile of rubble and Alix gives you a warm hug you already feel the characters. Alix is always 
 there to help you out and we all know how help is needed in Half Life. Alix and her funny comments 
 really adds some humor to the game. She is always in this `happy` mood while you are going tru 
 dark car parks infested with zombies, antlions, headcrabs and the works. Episode one really shows 
 off what Alix is capable of doing. Shes as a good figther as she looks. All in all Episode one 
 does only one thing bad, being too damn short. But never the less Episode one is a worthy installment 
 to the Half Life series. If you are a half life fan or you just like Alix go buy Episode one, its 
 well worth its price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dope999
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 2, 2007 4:59 am PT
Review:  Valve has promised us three new episodes for the amazing game Half-Life 2. Some people like me 
 just thought: Can Valve make Half-Life 2 better than it already is? And they sure did. Episode 
 One is even better than Half-Life 2 and how, I will tell you in my review:
  
  In Episode One you start in stasis mode, that the G-Man has put you in, when awaiting an mission. 
 But then the Vortigaunts holds back the G-Man and you're teleported away by the Vortigaunts. Alyx 
 is also saved from the explosion at the top of the Citadel. You're waking up in pile of rubble 
 and Dog is picking you up and you're reunited with Alyx. The Citadel is close to explode so you 
 have to stop from it exploding so you can escape City 17 in time. So briefly Episode One is all 
 about the escape from City 17.
  
  The gameplay has a few changes, but very fun and interesting changes. The biggest change is that 
 you're not alone any more. Alyx Vance, the beautiful daughter of Eli Vance is following you, through 
 most of the game. It's a great change aside from the lone-wolf gameplay that it used to be. The 
 new team dynamic has some good things in it. For example, when you and Alyx are in dark areas you 
 have to use your flash light so Alyx can shoot you enemies.
  The weapons are actually the same, but you won't really notice it. Actually you've lost the Bug 
 Bait, but it's not a great loss. You enemies are also the same, but a new zombie has been added 
 to the game. This is Combine zombie or a Zombine as Alyx calls it. A Zombine is faster than a 
 regular zombie, but not as fast as the fast-zombie. It hits a little harder than other zombies, 
 but it can also use grenades as a suicide weapon. The Zombine is holding the grenade and hunts 
 you until it explodes. The Combine seems a little smarter in Episode One. They take cover and throws 
 grenades while in cover and they are also harder to kill. They're more mobilized too, they just 
 don't stand still. If you're taking cover they'll take the chance and find you and kill you at 
 close range.
  Just a quick add on: There's no vehicles in Episode One, a great disappointment. The vehicle sequences 
 in Half-Life 2 was exciting and fun to play, but very boring in the end unfortunately. Hope we'll 
 see more vehicle sequences in the next episodes. The graphics is also practically the same as in 
 Half-Life 2. They are still amazingly beautiful to look at. There's really nothing to say about 
 this.
  
  The sound is also the same (I know, I know this is very repetitive, but IT IS actually the same!) . 
 It's still the same incredible sound quality as in Half-Life 2.
  
  It's come to the sad part of the game folks. The value. While Episode One is way better than its 
 predecessor, it only features 4 to 6 hours of gameplay. It's just WAY to short. In the end suddenly 
 the credits are rolling and you are just sitting in front of your computer, wanting way more than 
 this. It features 6 but short chapters. I just hope so freakin' much that the next episodes are 
 longer than this, it's really sad.
  
  Conclusion  Half-Life 2 Episode One is an amazing, but short ride. If you're a Half-Life fan, 
 buy the game it's worth the money, but Valve!: Next time we want more gameplay, get it?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lab4lover666
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 31, 2006 5:58 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2: Episode 1 is far better than Half-Life 2 in gameplay and story however, it just feels 
 a little short.
  
  I began playing this game earliar this morning, but was surprised to find myself at the credits 
 after only 4 hours. I had read about the story, so I mostly knew what was coming however, I didn't 
 now expect it to end so soon. I was looking forward to a large action packed story thriller which 
 did happen to some degree. I'm pleased with the smaller expantion of enemies like the Storkers 
 and 'Zombines', I like how Value you gave such a chilling history of the creation of these abominations. 
 I laughed alot too when a Zombine blew itself up with his own grenade. Of the amount of action 
 that is Episode 1, I'm very pleased with the outcome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blazed4Life
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 27, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  A must buy for any fan of first person shooters or the half life series. Ok, so as you might know, 
 this game isn't very long. But I firmly say that this is the creme dela creme of the Half Life 
 series. Like orange juice this game is condensed, not however in the same fruit pulp ect. way, 
 but condensed in fun. Yeah, i know, lame analogy. What I'm saying is this game rocks serious balls. 
 Although short (took me 4 hours) the game is so greatly packed with fun, flavourful and imaginative 
 gameplay that it will last many runs through. Grafx are amazing, literally, my computer isn't the 
 beast it was once, and the hdr lighting and other mumbo jumbo are thrown in so nicely with an artists 
 touch that youll be beating your head in 24/7 trying to figure out how it can look that sweet. 
 Either way.. BUY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fzs1000
Rating: 7.8
Date: Dec 26, 2006 1:40 am PT
Review:  I played it on medium difficulty and it lasted at most 3 hours. There were a few good puzzles to 
 figure out but nothing really new. It was fun while it lasted, but definitely not worth the money. 
 If it were $5 then I would say it was great. For $15, I say you need to get at least 10 hours out 
 of the game. Also, I still can't say for sure if Alyx gets in the way more than she helps. The 
 gravity gun is fantastic, but I found no opportunity to use the bug bait which would have been 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: glitzy69
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 25, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2: episode 1 is a fully apt and accurate name for the extra content. It isn't so much 
 an expansion as much as it is a simple addition. There is very little to differentiate from half-life 
 2 itself, save for new locales, new situations, and a continuation of what seems to be the longest 
 bad day in the history of Gordon Freeman.
  
  The game takes off right where half-life 2 left off, and takes an odd turn almost immediately. 
 Gordon and Alyx are whisked away to safety with little explainable reason, while the G-man is kept 
 at bay in much the same way and never shows up for the rest of the storyline. In the same vein, 
 Eli and Mossman -- the two other doctors from Half-Life 2-- are introduced and quickly forgotten 
 in the midst of various Combine attacks on their respective areas. The 'advancement' of the story 
 is mainly just introducing new questions and not answering them, but this is forgivable, considering 
 how fun the game still is. It goes to note, however, that much of the game has been injected with 
 a lot more obvious humor. For example, Doctor Kleiner (the fumbling, bald scientist) now occupies 
 the screens and televisions blurting out various forms of propoganda instead of Breen. In his speech, 
 he makes little 'side-notes' to begin procreating to increase the human population since the Combine 
 suppression field for preventing such things, itself, has been surpressed. Some jokes fall flat, 
 completely on purpose; when first encountering a 'Zombine' (a head-crab infected Combine soldier) 
 Alyx cracks the joke about a Zombine, coining the term, and then shaking her head at her own lack 
 of good humor when the ever-silent Gordan doesn't even chuckle.
  
  As far as graphics, gameplay, and even sound, much of it is unchanged. This isn't really a bad 
 thing, however, since all these resources have not simply been re-hashed; the new locales and interactions 
 with the environments actually feel kind of refreshing, though some of them are the same old tricks 
 you saw Valve pull previously. Electrified water with barnicles, numerous headcrab traps, and air-ducts 
 galore (which Alyx actually cracks jokes about as she follows you) . The shooting and puzzle solving 
 is done in such a way it's never really boring, and many of the puzzles involving the gravity gun 
 are done early on and not revisited. Most of the other puzzles are environmental traps mingled 
 with combat, as you'd expect.
  
  As far as Valve's overall goal of 'character and story development' goes, Gordon doesn't get much 
 (which isn't a surprise) , and to be truthful, nor does Alyx. In half-life 2, she's a bad-ass that 
 doesn't talk too much aside from very important plot points. In half-life 2, she's still a bad-ass, 
 but it's peppered with odd and almost uncharacteristic fits of sadness, mourning, or even simple 
 fear. At one point she'll be curled up in fright after a train crash, but the key point is that 
 it's NOT the crash that scared her -- it's the mostly harmless 'stalkers' that serve as workers 
 for the combine, getting in her face. Through roughly 90% of the game, Alyx tags along interjecting 
 both important points and sometimes complete nonsense ( Example: I heard that whenever Dr. Kleiner 
 locked himself in his office, you and Barney would race to see who could get inside without a key. 
 ) . It's not really an escort mission, since she seems almost invincible through most areas, absorbing 
 explosions and gunfire, and there are even some special animations such as kneeing headcrab zombies 
 in the groin and so on. The problem is, she may actually start to wear on your nerves after a while. 
 She states obvious answers to puzzles, such as In my experience with electricity, they're always 
 attached to a power source. Some sections may come off as annoying, but she can hold her own, and 
 for the first section of the game you're only armed with the gravity gun and instead rely on her 
 for your covering fire. When poorly armed int he dark against all those zombies, you may not have 
 enough ammo to fight back; Alyx has a limitless supply, but she needs light to fire accurately. 
 Putting a flashlight beam on zombies is an interesting mini-game, to say the least.
  
  Combat plays out just like in Half-Life 2, only for the first sections of the game you are very 
 poorly armed and instead get help from Alyx. The combat is still pretty intense and purely action-movie 
 quality, from defending yourself from an onslaught of zombies in the dark, to blasting gunships 
 with rockets in a rickety wooden building that splinters apart as the machine tries to get a bead 
 on you. The problem is that, by the end of the game, you really wanted to continue onward and fight 
 off some more of the Combine and whatever they could throw at you. This is where Episode 1 shines; 
 the environments are still quite dangerous and interesting, such as a head-crab infested hospital, 
 the dark matter core ( a puzzle area) , and so on. However, there seemed to be a much bigger emphasis 
 on the zombies than any other enemies; you only see the white-armored combine a couple times, and 
 they are easily dealt with and easily forgotten, for example. The important fights of the game, 
 however, are riddled with some fights you'd expect, but still manage to feel intense and exciting.
 
  
  It also goes to note that a number of technical problems managed to filter their way into my system, 
 but this may be unique to me. There were loading problems, occasionally freezing from time to time, 
 and at one point Alyx was stuck in a key area and I couldn't progress until I loaded the game from 
 scratch and completed the area over again. This didn't seem common, as the second time was smooth 
 as silk and the problems didn't really slow me down.
  
  All in all it is more of the same, which is exactly what Valve promised. Alyx may get on your nerves, 
 if you're like me, but it's forgivable considering just how much she makes up for it in defending 
 herself; she's certainly no princess as far as manners go. For 20 dollars, it's a good buy, even 
 if there are no new weapons and only one new enemy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrew_ribbons
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 24, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is excellent. Nope, nothing really more than needs to be said on that matter. The source 
 engine is, indeed, still very impressive and offers some of the best uses of HDR in games to date. 
 The character models are fantastic and the landscape models are only a touch blocky.
  
  The game starts precicely where HL2 itself ended. There are some very emotional aspects of this 
 game, far more than were in HL2. Your bond with Alyx seems to grow more obvious, as Gordon Freeman. 
 Although Gordon never speaks, as the gamer you can't help feeling warm towards Alyx. The familar 
 and amusing Dr. Kliener and Barney feature in this first Episode as well, as well as mentions and 
 sightings of many other important characters in the Half Life story.
  
  The gameplay is definitely improved and the change to team style action throughout the game is 
 a welcome change from all previous Half Life games. The terrain is mostly City 17, which is getting 
 a bit samey by now. However, with promises of new interesting envrionments in Episode 2, it can 
 be forgiven in Episode 1. Especially when City 17 is vital to the plot :P.
  
  All of Episode one is based around one key goal: Get out of City 17. Of course, there are many 
 detours that ensue and side quests as well. All in all, it's pleanty to keep you busy until Feb 
 2007, when Episode 2 is out.
  
  The game can easily be played through twice, as on first playing you can miss stuff. The first 
 time you play it through i would say you can get about 9 hours of gameplay out of it if you take 
 it at a strole. The second time you go through, you could easily complete it in 6 hours, however.
 
  
  All in all, an excellent start to a series which follows on from the past two games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big_Boss2703
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 17, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  When Half-Life 2 appeared in 2004 it was everything that Valve had said it would be. Spectacular 
 graphics, unique gameplay additions and a solid storyline made Half-Life 2 the GOTY 2004 for many 
 and the best shooter in history even to some. Now Valve have released the first episode that continues 
 the story of Half-Life 2. The game continues from where Half-Life 2 left off and explains how you 
 and Alyx survived the cliffhanger ending of Half-Life 2. The first thing that hits you is the much 
 superior model detail of the Source engine. The game generally looks much better than Half-Life 
 2 did in 2004, and with the added HDR lighting system we cand now see the true capabilkities of 
 the graphics engine. All this graphical beauty doesn't cost gamers much, the game being able to 
 run on a large variety of low-end computers. The gameplay hasn't changed very much, the most notable 
 addition being Alyx, who is beside you the entire game, and who you must protect. Protecting her 
 isn't hard, thanks to some sharp AI. Also, a new enemy has been introduced, the zombine . The game 
 not only looks great but it also sounds great. The voice acting is exceptional, all the characters 
 sounding very life-like, Alyx Vance being one of the most human characters i have seen in a videogame, 
 especially a shooter. All these add to a very satisfying game that adds to Half-Life 2's rich experience. The 
 only thing is that the game is too short. With about 5 hours spent to finish the single player game, 
 it is much shorter than Half-Life 2, and the absence of a multiplayer mode is also a negative trait. I 
 warmly recommend this game to anyone who liked Half-Life 2 and to all people who want to play one 
 of the best first person shooters out there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Noobberry
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 16, 2006 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Gordon its back with another adventure (well three more adventures there is) and hes back with 
 the a special partner.
  
  Graphics: OMG its really excellent and its like the same as HL2 with a little more sharper into 
 it
  
  Sounds: excellent voice acting and its was fanastic, guns are almost the same but its was rocking 
 the world
  
  Gameplay: kinda have to say but its kinda sucked because it was quite short but until two games 
 were included: HF: source, HFDM: source and HF2: DM
  
  Overall: it was all great until it ended but i have to say now we need to wait until the second 
 part of the chapter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NasHHHbk
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 11, 2006 5:54 pm PT
Review:  Well, theres really no need for an intro, its a continuation of the Half Life 2, and now youre 
 trying to escape City 17 before you get annihilated to bits.
  
  Gameplay is just the same as the HL2, so dont expect anything new. But that doesnt mean its bad. 
 Its a tried and true gameplay, and if youre someone who wants new and intuitive gameplay, then 
 you might get disappointed.
  
  Still a couple of puzzles just like HL2 and various uses of the gravity gun, and atleast this time 
 around, you have Alyx to help you (not to mention save ammo lol) , so its new and certainly welcoming 
 to the game.
  
  Graphics are still as great as HL2, with the addition of HDR which makes the source engine even 
 mroe beautiful. Now, scenarios, landscapes, and hallways look that muh nicer thanks to the great 
 lighting.
  
  If anything is a con about this game, its definately the amount of time you play it. Its fairly 
 short compared to the main game (not that Ep.1 was meant to be as long as HL2 anyway) , but all this 
 game leaves you is wanting more from the Half Life 2 Franchise. With the next episodes delayed 
 until next year, its gonna be a long and painful wait until we get our hands on another champter 
 of a really great game, but needless to say, theres some replay value to this game, but not alot 
 so to speak.
  
  Being the game is only $20 (or under in some stores) , whats not to love about this game? Its great 
 to its own merit, and for that price, its definately worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_bi99man
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  Episode One is amazing. Graphics: Better than Half-Life 2... mostly due to the full HDR lighting, 
 which is displayed prominently everywhere.
  
  Sound: Same as Half-Life 2. And that is in no way dissapointing.
  
  Gameplay: Over-the-top 
 action sequences are what Episode One is all about. Towards the end (which doesn't take long, more 
 on this later) it gets to the point where I would describe it as rediculous (in a good way) . There's 
 no new weapons introduced in Ep. 1, but all the originals from HL2 make their way into your arsonal. 
 There was, however, one new enemy added to the fray. The Hulk Zombie (not an official name, that's 
 all me) , which is, apparently, created by a Combine soldier getting zombified by a headcrab, is 
 generally slow, but can charge fast, and takes a lot of damage.
  
  Massive, chaotic shootouts are the highlight of Episode One, most of which beat the hell out any 
 scene Half-Life 2 had to offer. From running through a field of debris, with manhacks in the air, 
 mines on the ground, Combine soldiers charging from all angles, snipers in the windows, and a rocket 
 launching tank on the other side (all at once) , to a one-on-one duel with a strider, Ep. 1 will 
 contantly have you on the edge of your seat, leaving your mouse dripping with sweat. The difficulty 
 has clearly been bumped up a bit, too, from HL2. With noticeably smarter AI, and generally more 
 enemies to deal with at any given time, Ep. 1 actually made me turn the difficulty down to easy 
 , something I never expected after playing HL2.
  
  My only gripe about Ep. 1 is that it is very short. We're talking 
::::::

::::::
UserName: themanofsteel99
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 2, 2006 10:51 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2: Episode 1 is first in the series of Episodic Content that Valve has planned to produce 
 for it starving fanbase of gamers. One could say that it's just another way of saying expansion 
 pack, however, the game only really adds to the story, and doesn't give much of a boost to the 
 multiplayer aspect. On it's own right though, this is a great expansion pack, and at a modest price, 
 is well worth a pickup.
  
  Basically it doesn't introduce anything new in the form of gameplay, but rather pickups where it 
 left off. That massive explosion in the Citadel of City 17. You are rescued by the Vortigons and 
 set out to make sure that the rest of the human population left in city is able to escape. The 
 game itself would be like going in reverse from the last few chapters of the original, that is 
 Citadel, underground, and finally my favorite, Urban war.
  
  One of the flaws of the game is that the pace is much maligned. The first few chapters are slow 
 and tedious, they attempted to capture the Ravenholme feel, but are a bit too slow, and will make 
 you want to just finish them. However, once you reach daylight, this game does one better than 
 original. The final urban war aspect is intoxicating, but short. I felt disappointed that it wasn't 
 longer, but overall it made up for the slow chapters.
  
  From a technical standpoint, it's a prettier game than the original, the sound and graphics are 
 all that we would expect from something that is associated with Half Life name. Unlike it's original, 
 I did suffer some problems with the graphic settings, considering I have a pretty new video card, 
 and took some time before I could fix them, hopefully these kind of problems will be gone for the 
 next one. This game is well worth a pickup to all fans of series, and it will leave you hungry 
 fro the next one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulletsword
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 24, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  It's been about 1 and a half years since Half Life 2 was released. That was a great game, and I 
 don't think anybody minds an expansion pack for more action. Episode 1 keeps all of the great things 
 from Half Life 2 and presents itself pretty well. Though it's pretty short, it is somewhat satisfying 
 for both the plot and entertainment.
  
  Episode 1 begins right after Half Life 2. The game ended with a cliff-hanger sort of ending, and 
 left a few unanswered questions. Right when the big explosion happens, you survive and you find 
 yourself being dug up by a big robot named Dog, which you know and love from Half Life 2. If there's 
 anything you need to know about what happens in the story in Episode 1, it's that you're just running 
 like hell through the few moments that occur after blowing the crap out of the Citadel.
  
  Right from the start, you'll begin to notice much improved graphics (providing that your computer 
 can pull it off) . This is how Half Life 2 should of looked like. The new lighting effects probably 
 are the biggest improvements in the graphics. Other than that, you can expect to see some of the 
 same old stuff from HL2. They just look a bit better and less dated. Facial animations and particle 
 effects are still doing fine.
  
  Of course, the action is where it's supposed to be at. And apparently, it kind of loss a bit of 
 the intensity from the original. When you begin the game, you're put up against a lot more puzzle 
 solving. Though they're kind of easy at first, they all flow nicely. Whats bad is that you'll only 
 have the Gravity Gun for the first level or so without access to other weapons for a bit. Whats 
 good is that since the Gravity Gun is so fun to use, you won't care. Honestly, if you were unable 
 to see how well HL2 handled physics, then let me put it this way: The Gravity Gun can pick up pretty 
 much any object in the environment and hurl it at your enemies. This allows plenty of ways to dispose 
 of your attackers and can stir up a few laughs. I've never seen a game with better physics than 
 Half Life 2, and Episode 1 keeps all of that.
  
  When you're not puzzle solving, the action is great. Alyx is a helpful ally, and the AI is much 
 improved. The combat situations are better than before. Some situations put you in having to make 
 it through a dark parking lot area infested with zombies which makes you use your flashlight for 
 both you and Alyx, escorting groups of people like you're part of something like the Underground 
 Railroad, and getting caught up in fights that break out between the Combine soldiers and zombies. 
 There is plenty of firepower to let loose, and you'll have a great time with it. Alyx is not only 
 one of the best allies you can possibly have, but she actually feels like a real person. Since 
 she'll be at your side for pretty much the whole game, she'll rely on your flashlight to see in 
 the dark, operate turrets, snipe out enemies, and use cover effectively (although through all the 
 times I've played, she has never died) . Her speech and dialogue makes her character closer to being 
 a real live character. In fact, all of the speech in the game is done great. It's just that the 
 actual main character never talks.
  
  Occasionally, there will be a few breaks in the action, which brings you to another puzzle. That 
 doesn't bother me, but sometimes I find myself wanting a lot more action. The game itself is too 
 short. 4-6 hours of extra missions is what this is about. There are no new weapons, and no vehicles 
 at all. Squad commanding makes a return, but still as simple as it was in the original HL2. The 
 game may come with Half Life 2 Deathmatch, but it's not like it adds anything new to multiplayer 
 at all. Episode 1 is about as good as an official map pack that rocks. Half Life 2 is a great game, 
 and Episode 1 manages to keep a lot of what made the series best of the best. This isn't worth 
 getting without Half Life 2, because of the length. You don't even need Half Life 2 to play this. 
 Seriously. But you'll need Half Life 2 for stuff like mods and crap, but hey, $20 for more Half 
 Life 2 pwnage isn't that bad of a deal considering the fact that you already have the original. 
 Episode 1 lasts for a few hours, but is entirely worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZodiacMonkey
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 25, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2: Episode one was very fun to play, I liked it a lot because it continued the cliff 
 hanging edge of Half-Life 2. It shows many new features of the game engine such as dynamic range. 
 This game was pretty cool for the most part, lots of intense action; the game was pretty bizarre 
 though, also there were some things left unexplained which I didn't really like. Another thing 
 is it is very short and is pretty much only a piece of the story, so you are once again left cliff 
 hanging. Overall it was fun for a few hours and It leaves you waiting for the Episode 2. If you 
 like the storyline then I recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lorondo-
Rating: 8.1
Date: Nov 25, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  The only problem with Half-life: episode one is a very bug one, it's much too short, Though you 
 should play it if you liked half-life 2.
  
  Gameplay: Half-life 2: episode one has the same fun gameplay as Half-life 2, but that's just it, 
 theres nothing new not a single new weapon at your disposal, and after you complete the game you 
 really wish it was longer and you wont be able to wait for episode 2. Graphics: The graphics are 
 hardly better then half-life 2's but you should defenetly be satisfied if you liked half-life 2's 
 presintation.
  
  Sound: The sound is just as good as half-life 2's which is good so you'll enoy it.
  
  Value: 
 Unfortunetly Half-life 2: episode one dosent havemuch value sence it's painfully short, but you 
 should still get it if you want a small hunk of more story.
  
  half-life 2: episode one is great. But it dosent give you much new enviorments or content and it's 
 far too short. still though, if your a fan of half-life games (I know I am) you should give this 
 a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Irate_Hobbit
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 24, 2006 11:49 am PT
Review:  Episode 1 is a must play for any Half-Life fan. Though it lacks a ton of replay from being too 
 short, the graphics upgrades and gameplay is very satisfying. The story picks up with Gordon and 
 Alyx trying to leave city 17 and evac as many refugees as possible. It lasts a little over 4 hours 
 on normal for the average HL player. For anyone who isn't in love with the series or has no problem 
 waiting, you probably wouldn't regret waiting even more. Looking back on this is kind of annoying. 
 I replayed it a few times a while ago and am actually starting to lose interest in the amazing 
 HL story. The episodic content releases for Half-Life 2 were supposed to be evenly timed. Instead 
 it looks like episode 2 won't be out until next spring or summer while it was originally planned 
 to be a fall release followed by Episode 3 in the spring. I suppose Valve found that adding TF2 
 and Portal gave them the excuse to hold off and probably charge us full price for the next episode 
 even if we want those other games or not. The annoying wait and dropping value of the franchise 
 has a direct affect on my review. After a sort of cliffhanger ending for HL2, we are now given 
 a very short quest which is not really holding us over until the next episode. Most of us have 
 moved onto different franchises many months ago. Not to mention, console gamers will get all the 
 Half-life 2 games and the new episode in one package with portal and TF2 for probably $60. Chances 
 are, us steam users will see episode 1 packaged in some kind of bundle at far less than $20 as 
 they have done with other games in the past. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazook
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 22, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  I just completed Half-Life 2 now I've completed Half-Life 2 Episode One and I need so much more 
 Half-Life 2 I really can't wait for Episode 2 and the last episode. I love the ending just as much 
 as the cliffhanger on Half-Life 2. I really like the gameplay just as much but there isn't any 
 new weapons or vehicles and not much of that kl gameplay we all love. Graphics I think are just 
 a little better it's even brighter than the last game even though it was already really bright 
 otherwise it's all the same, there's the same voices from the last game as well which is comforting 
 and the sounds just feel revamped it's awesome unfortunately so short I completed it in a day lol 
 I think lots of others have, but there also isn't any new multiplayer or at least some new maps 
 to download for multiplayer on Half-Life 2. So I think this is yet again something that continued 
 on my addictiveness of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ears1991
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2006 4:10 am PT
Review:  When i brought this game, I wasnt expecting much as most expansion type things are usually pretty 
 poor compared to the original, but this was quite teh opposite.
  It took me a long time to get through HL2, sure its a great game but it dragged on a bit to much 
 for me.
  This time round, they got it just right.
  No boring walking around aimlessly, just non stop action, i got through this one in a few days 
 because I thought it was great.
  You should definietely play HL2 first through.
  Cons:
  Shorter than it could have been but all in all they packed a lot into this so it was good anyway.
 
  Must have if you liked HL2, great expansion and great ending leaving for a great episode 2 i hope 
 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benwng
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 17, 2006 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Half-life has had a record of excellence as a first person shooter ever since the original in 1998, 
 the new expansion is just as good as these originals although its major flaw is that it is sooo 
 short!
  The game is exciting, fast-paced action with some of the best Half-Life gameplay, the new team 
 dynamic is fun and a change of pace from the traditional lone gameplay; sharp writing, witty dialogue, 
 and some of the best characters in a game, top-notch production values from the still-impressive 
 source engine. However it is Incredibly short, featuring only four to six hours of gameplay; no 
 new multiplayer content and i did have some technical issues during some parts of gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neo16161616
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 13, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  This was a good game but it needed a 6 hours longer of game play. It also could of been $3-$5 cheeper. 
 The graphics were superb but I made the mistake of not having a good enough graphics card. Spoiler
 
  You also want to have a graphics card that will let you use a flash light for the level when you 
 are in the dark the whole level when you are running from zombines with TNT. That was the most 
 annoying level ever. Alyx tries to scare you by immitating zombie sounds. For me it was blundering 
 around in the dark for 1hr. Take my warning.
  End of spoiler
  The AI was pretty good and the enviroment was alot more interactive like using the flares to make 
 light in the dark level. If you thought you would have a good time fighting stalkers then you will 
 be horribly disipointed. And ontop of all of this you get the Supa Gravity Gun. Can some one tell 
 me what the learning curve means? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jason_Morris
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 12, 2006 7:54 am PT
Review:  Well, Episode 2 has been delayed until summer '07, meaning that this is it for new Half Life material 
 for a year from release. It was promised as the first in a series of episodic content, but that 
 only really works if the episodic content comes out at regular intervals. Considering that this 
 is sold for a regular expansion pack price, this is perhaps the most pathetically meagre expansion 
 in the history of gaming, clocking in at roughly 2 hours of game-play. Add to this, the fact that 
 it takes an age to get going, with far too much at the beginning in the uninspired citadel location 
 (largely without a gun) , once it starts up, it's over before you can blink.
  
  What there is of it is great, but it should have been half the price, and a year is far too long 
 for a continuation given the size. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slannmage
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  HL 3 episode one this should be called as Gabe said episode 1 - 3 will be HL3.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Same as HL2 but with no vehicles and enchanced foot game. Just plain fun with 
 the Gravity gun and as you'll know with HL2. I suspect episode 2 and 3 to push the source engine 
 even further. There are a few annoying chapters in the game that do ruin it for me, but just cause 
 it's not to my liking makes it bad at all.
  
  Graphics;
  
  Looking very dated and yet i still love the way it looks.
  
  Sound:
  
  Great sound and 
 voice acting and music.
  
  My fave sounds are the noises the combine machines make, they sound like whale calls.
  
  Value:
 
  
  Ok value 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shortycfg
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 6, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 Episode One, is a great game, and is recommended to any fan of Half-Life. It still 
 implements and yet, improves the great designs and layouts of maps and having Alyx by your side 
 this time, is truly unique to the gameplay. There are some great new battles to be fought, both 
 revisiting similiar Half-Life 2 zones such as the Citadel, (but this time more fun, and less tedious 
 fights) . Another good point of this game was that, it was way harder than Half-Life 2 in certain 
 instances (ex: Citadel) . The many puzzles packed in such a small game is nifty, and provides a 
 good balance when you're battle fatigued. The downside is that it feels the same as the original 
 in the environments, but hopefully Episode Two will fix that. A good short game, if you have twenty 
 bucks to spare, go for this (just as long as you have Half-Life 2... if you don't have it, you 
 probably won't enjoy it as much) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Villimax
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 5, 2006 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Everyone already knows about the graphics, audio and all that in Half-Life 2, so I'm just going 
 to talk about the rest.
  The game adds no new multiplayer content, and features a cool commentary, a feature that first 
 appeared in Half-Life 2: The Lost Coast.
  Almost the entire game puts Alyx alongside the player as a faithful ally in and out of combat. 
 There are hardly any parts where the player is completely alone, as opposed to Half-Life 1, 2, 
 and number 1's expansions, where the player was almost always alone.
  The game is much more fun because of Alyx. She adds a cool feeling to the game. She's never in 
 the way, so people that don't like teammates won't get annoyed, and she's pretty helpful so people 
 like me that do like teammates can really appreciate her presence.
  The player never gets any citizen teammates (that includes medics) , and he can't boss Alyx around, 
 but she's still awesome.
  Too much of the game is done where the player has no actual weapon. It's a long time before he 
 finally gets a pistol. The beginning is done with the gravity gun and super gravity gun, and the 
 creators expected the players to rely too much on Alyx in some areas, which makes the teammates 
 department look bad.
  There's a perfect blend between exciting action and slow, puzzle-type moments. The slow, boring 
 puzzle-type moments are simply a cool-down according to the commentary. Though it'd be more exciting 
 without them, they stay faithful to the original Half-Life, and don't last too long before the 
 next fun action part.
  There are a lot of cool parts where Alyx and the player work together to slaughter enemies. In 
 one awesome section of the game, the player and Alyx get shotguns and run through the hallways 
 of a hospital, blasting both Combine and zombies simultaneously. There's also a scene where they're 
 underground, fighting zombies in pitch-black darkness as they wait for an elevator. Antlions also 
 make their way into City 17, so Alyx fights antlions while the player covers antlion holes with 
 old cars. Combine are often thrown into the mix to make it a three-way battle.
  That's the best thing about Episode One. Not only does the player get a teammate for almost every 
 part of the game, but there are also mixes of different teams of enemies, so you could have a crazy 
 battle between the player/Alyx, zombies and Combine, or Combine and antlions, or zombies and antlions.
 
  There's even an epic boss battle between the player and some Combine against an antlion guard 
 and its antlion helpers. This is pretty much the only time in Half-Life 2 you can consider Combine 
 as your teammates, as the Combine are more interested in fighting the antlions than the player, 
 and the antlion guard kills the Combine before they get the chance to fight the player, anyway.
 
  
  This is the best Half-Life game I've ever played. It's loaded with some of the best battle scenes 
 of the Half-Life series, and first-person-shooters in general. They managed to keep the Half-Life 
 feeling of the game, while being so charitable as to give the player a trusty teammate for pretty 
 much the whole thing. I can only hope the teamwork carries over into Episode 2.
  
  The only real problem with the game (besides the few solo parts) is that it's just too short. It 
 ends in just a few hours, if that long. To the game's credit, every second of the game that you're 
 actually playing it, you'll be enjoying yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cartmanstein
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 4, 2006 10:31 pm PT
Review:  The first episodic game from Valve delivers pretty much exactly what i expected from it, which 
 is basically just more Half-Life 2. Even though not one electron of my brain was blown away by 
 the awesomeness that comes from the studio, Valve's commitment to almost-perfect execution is visible 
 throughout every step of this adventure. The puzzles make great use of the Source Engine's abilities 
 and limits, the characters are believable and very realistic, and the combat is still fantastic. 
 Picking up right where Half-Life 2 left off, Episode 1 does an excellent job of exploring what 
 happens on earth when the Combine's power is broken, as, well as make some sense into the enigmatic 
 Gordan Freeman's history. Every challenge and problem players are faced with has been home-made 
 by dear old grandma to be much more than simple run'n'gun sets of enemies to blaze through terribly 
 easily. It's hard. You need skill and smarts to get through this. Although, most of your encounters 
 in this title are not fresh and/or new. However, this very quality that i just talked about is 
 no doubt my biggest issue with the game. Sometimes obstacles you come across are just too gimmicky 
 ( Just like William Hung! Remember him? The chinese dude on American Idol? Yeah, neither do I ) 
 and contrived. You're constantly being forced into dilemmas where you have to find a specific solution 
 to the problem - I never really felt like I was being creative in overcoming a firefight so much 
 as digging around until I found a pre-determined answer. And what's wrong with every once in a 
 while giving me an assload of enemies to fight with no goofy, silly variables to the encounter? 
 Huh? Do you have an answer for me? Beyond my vague irritation that I didn't have any freedom, Episode 
 1 is a very entertaining new chapter in the Half-Life series. But promise me to do yourself a really 
 big favor: beat the game and unlock the Episode 2 trailer, which you might find almost more thrilling 
 than the game I'm reviewing right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrotha
Rating: 7.3
Date: Nov 4, 2006 7:29 am PT
Review:  Episode one introduces some new battles, but overall doesn't add much to the story at all. It continues 
 where Half-life 2 left off. A very bizaar intro I might add. But after that, you and your associating 
 partner from the first half-life 2, Alyx, just try and make your way through obstacles til you 
 reach the escaping point of city 17. If you use the story interpretation instinct that you're supposed 
 to use in the Half-life series, this game isn't half bad, otherwise it's a bore. There is no new 
 content except for zombie combine soldiers. I don't see why headcrabs just now decided to latch 
 onto combine soldiers. I'd skip this game if I were you, there isn't much in it that's worth playing. 
 Plus it's over in 2 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reconwg
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 3, 2006 3:30 am PT
Review:  I think a lot of people expected this game, as they did with HL2, but it sure worth it. If you're 
 a fan of the series you're going to love the game, but if you're new I recommend to start at least 
 with HL2. After that you can play Episode One add-on. What impressed me the most was the fast paced 
 action with no relaxed moments. It's just like you're wired to the game and you're there. Puzzles 
 put my brain to the test without being annoying.
  
  Graphics is good with slight improvements of the original. HDR does its work offering pretty amazing 
 scenes.
  
  I think that the best way to create an immersive atmosphere is great sound and music. In Episode 
 One these are almost perfect. So 'push the tempo' on your suround system when you're playing the 
 game!
  
  The bad thing about the game is that it's so short that it's over before you know it. I'd give 
 it around 5 hours of play, including the boring hour at the begining (a mix between introduction 
 of the story and some kind of training) , with no guns and the radioactive gravity gun that makes 
 fights easy and boring.
  
  I don't think you'll play this game more than a couple of times but i'd say it makes up for it's 
 price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikehet0915
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 2, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  I was slightly skeptical about Valve releasing all these episodes instead of just putting out a 
 full game, but after playing HL2: Episode One it is safe to say that the developers know what they 
 are doing.
  
  Gameplay - If you have played HL1 and HL2 then you know what you are getting into. This game manages 
 to put great firefights, non-frustrating puzzles, and great acting into five hours. I really cannot 
 complain about anything in this game, except for the fact that it doesn't bring any new gameplay 
 to the HL universe.
  Graphics - HDR looks pretty amazing and the only thing keeping me from giving graphics a 10 is 
 the very noticeable low-res ground textures. Alyx and the G-Man are pretty detailed, as are some 
 of the environments in the Citadel. If Valve keeps adding neat effects like HDR to the Source engine, 
 then they can easily keep using it for another year.
  Sound - This is definitely one of the highlights in the game. Alyx acts pretty natural and somehow 
 manages to not be annoying while following you throughout the entire game. The cheesy jokes actually 
 made me laugh a couple of times, which is quite an accomplishment in a first person shooter. I 
 must mention a scene where you are in a pitch black room and there are zombies everywhere! Hearing 
 the screeches of all these zombies and your shotgun blasting away can be pretty intense. The techno 
 music during some of the battles was also surprisingly good. Other than that, the guns sound great 
 and so did everything else.
  Value - I think I got the game for around 17 dollars. It took me about 4 1/2 - 5hrs to beat this 
 game, so I would say that it was worth it. This is not a game you will play more than two times. 
 However, once you beat it you will realize that there is nothing to complain about.
  I highly recommend this game if you enjoy the FPS genre and it is a must play if you like Half-Life. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazymadman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Oct 26, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Imagine Half Life 2, improved but 1/4 as long, there you have Half Life 2: Episode 1. More of the 
 best production values on fun, diversied, action-oriented gameplay. This time around however, you 
 have alyx with you almost every step of the way, which adds a fun team dynamic. You no longer feel 
 like a lone wolf but have Alyx beside you who often offers up some comic relif in the top knotch 
 dialog. Episode One also serves up some well needed answers to the cliff hanger at the end of Half 
 Life 2. If you were a fan of Half Life 2, this is the game. If you have yet to play Half Life 2, 
 you should, it will only serve to enhance your experiance from this. In conclusion, some of the 
 best 4 hours video games have to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mox_Firefox
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 26, 2006 7:16 am PT
Review:  When I bought the game I only noticed five chapters! I was like... whoa!? How could there be a 
 game with such short gametime? You could compare it with Timesplitters Future Perfect, a really 
 short story mode which you can complete in one afternoon. But then again Timesplitters has a Multiplayer 
 function and Ep1 doesn't. When I finished the game I thought about it and I saw that the game tells 
 you very much about the story, I think i have even learned more from Ep1 then from HL2, where I 
 had questions like: Who are the combine? What are the combine? Who rules over the combine? Where 
 do they come from? Many of these questions were answered in Ep1: Combine... Transformed humans 
 and other aliens, from the stalker car scene. The combine advisors and so forth... About the gameplay? 
 It rocks, its so much fun to watch Alyx fight off the aliens and kill them with her special combos. 
 I had fun at certain non-combat scenes like where Alyx intruduces the Zombine... or when she looks 
 at you and says to you: '' Good thing you know what you are doing. '' Because the first time I 
 didn't know what I was doing. Alyx is a great companion in the game and I loved the teamwork idea... 
 Just if the game would have been a little longer the game would have deserved a 10! And for Valve: 
 Keep it up!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolmankris
Rating: 9.7
Date: Oct 18, 2006 11:16 am PT
Review:  Due to a leak of Half-Life 2's original source code a few years ago, the game was delayed nearly 
 a full year. However, after alot of editing, and after developer Valve Software stepped up their 
 security, the game was finally released in late 2004. The game, despite being delayed nearly a 
 whole year, received a very warm welcome, earning several Game Of The Year awards. The game came 
 with a few other games, such as CounterStrike Source (an updated version of the classic online 
 game) , Half-Life 2 Deathmatch, and tools to allow users to create their own content. At the end 
 of the main singleplayer mode, we find out that there are alot of unanswered questions, and that 
 a sequel was to be inevitable. For a long time, there was talk about an expansion, called Half-Life 
 2: Aftermath. However, after a while, it seems as though the idea was scrapped. Rather than bring 
 out a full-length sequel and have us wait another 4 or 5 years, Valve has decided to bring out 
 three smaller updates. While each expansion is shorter, we don't have to wait as long, and it's 
 much cheaper to pay $20 rather than the traditional $60. Episode 1 is, as the title suggests, the 
 first chapter in this expansion, which is supposed to have three episodes . The game starts right 
 where the original HL2 leaves us, with the Combine citadel on the brink of destruction. You quickly 
 realize that you've fallen from the tower, yet survived. Right after waking up in a pile of rubble, 
 you are reunited with your ally, Alyx, and her robot Dog . From here on, Alyx is fighting by your 
 side nearly throughout the whole game. Your mission is pretty simple. Protect Alyx, fight off the 
 Combine trying to hunt you down, round up any survivors, and get out of the city before the citadel 
 wipes it out. Unfortunately, the game never really explains much of the confusing plot. In fact, 
 it seems to get even more cloudy in Episode 1. The only plot that's really realized here is just 
 escaping the city. This isn't to say EP1 isn't fun. In fact nearly the whole game is heavy on the 
 action. Throughout the game you can expect to face off against the Combine in alot of exciting 
 gun fights. Most of the time, Alyx is right beside you, providing cover-fire. Some of the showdowns 
 require you use your environtment to your advantage, like setting traps, or kicking things over 
 to hide behind. A large part of the game has you keeping your head down and rolling grenades around 
 corners, to keep from getting your head blown off. Aside from Combine, you can expect to face off 
 against LOTS of zombies and antlions. There aren't really that many new enemies or NPCs, except 
 for the zombie-combines, or Zombines . These are simply combine soldiers that have been turned 
 into zombies. These guys take a hell of alot more damage to bring down, and will occasionally run 
 towards you with grenades, trying to take you out. Most of the game is based on action, but as 
 with the original HL2, you can expect the occasional puzzle, which you will need to solve to move 
 on to the next section. Most of these puzzles are rather clever, while still entertaining. And 
 just like HL2, you'll find that you'll make good use of the gravity gun to manipulate objects in 
 the environtment, like weigh a plank down with bricks to cross a gap, or grab an energy orb and 
 launch it into a hole to activate a door. Because of this, you'll find that sometimes there are 
 a couple of ways to finish a puzzle, which makes for a good replay value. If you've played the 
 original HL2, you were probably pretty impressed with the graphics. Unfortunately Episode 1 doesn't 
 improve too much on visuals, except for the addition of HDR lighting, which looks very nice. But 
 because the visuals haven't really jumped ahead too far, than anybody who's played HL2 shouldn't 
 run into much trouble running this on their system. Another thing to make a note of is the sound 
 design. Just like before, all the voice acting is top-notch, and very realistic. The sound effects 
 are very well done too, and create some creepy atmosphere when you're running around in a pitch 
 black room surrounded by zombies. You'll actually hear a distinct clunk and dive behind something, 
 realizing somebody has pitched a grenade at you. The music is also pretty cool, although the game, 
 like it's predecessors, doesn't rely too heavily on music. One of my favourite features here is 
 the AI. It isn't overly new or updated, but facing off against NPCs remains one of the most exciting 
 things to expect. Enemies provide supressing fire, lob grenades, rappel down walls, and retreat 
 when they have to. It's probably the closest we'll ever get to playing against another human player, 
 and that's just fine. The first thing anyone's going to say about this game is that it's short. 
 With only 5-8 hours of gameplay, you'd think it'd be longer. And it's also somewhat disappointing 
 that there really isn't any new weapons or enemies (except for the Zombines and some others) . But 
 for $20, you get alot of bang for your buck, and it's worth every penny. And because it's a little 
 short, odds are we'll see Episode 2 before 2007. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zaasz
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  Grab your crowbar and power-up that hazard suit. After almost two-years of waiting, the critically 
 acclaimed Half-Life 2 has received its first expansion pack. Entitled Episode One, the update 
 sports a few new features, new environments, and a continuation of the main-storyline. Episode 
 One aims to further the already commendable respect of the mega-popular title.
  
  The first of a three-episode series, Episode One starts right where Half-Life 2 left off. After 
 a cut-scene which explains the events that transpired at the end of the original title, you again 
 take control of the cunning and resourceful Gordon Freeman. Unrelenting and ruthless to the core, 
 the alien Combine are still scouring the desolate remains of City 17 for Gordon and any rebels 
 they can find. This time however, Gordon has someone watching his back. Assisting him is lovely 
 AI (Artificial Intelligence) controlled friend from Half-Life 2, Alyx.
  
  Before you read further, if you havent played Half-Life 2 (heresy!) you may want to consider 
 it, so as to avoid any potential spoilers ahead. First and foremost, Episode One does the series 
 wonders by simply providing additional game-play and continuing the storyline of the original game. 
 Though the story that is expanded upon, while intriguing, doesnt actually answer much from the 
 first title. Theres no real sense of closure and you are actually left with even more questions 
 by the time the credits roll. However, the way the story is told is absolutely gripping. Little 
 by little, Episode One unravels small pieces of the truth behind the Combine and the G-man. But 
 while it may sound contradictory, the reason why Half-Life 2's story is so compelling is because 
 you know very little about whats going on.
  
  The same unparalleled game-play returns with all your favorite weapons and gadgets. But the biggest 
 game-play change comes with the inclusion of Alyx as a sidekick. Throughout the entirety of the 
 game, Alyx will back you up, talk with you, spew out lame jokes, and offer incredible AI assistance. 
 It really gives the game flavor as youre not gunning down Combine alone anymore. And dont worry, 
 the AI controlling Alyx does a wonderful job. There were few occasions where the AI got wonky, 
 but those issues were minor.
  
  As expected, Valve delivers a visual paradise with Episode One. The environments you will transverse 
 are on par with that of Half-Life 2 and cant be described as anything less than absolutely gorgeous. 
 Grass, simple poles in the ground, debris, even a cinder block all contain unthinkable detail. 
 And with these beautiful environments comes the return of the signature physics system Half-Life 
 2 made famous to the world. Blocks, paper, wood, bottles, everything in the game has weight, resulting 
 in amazing physics based puzzles Half-Life 2 veterans have already come to know and love. The 
 issue some may have with Episode One is that it doesnt do anything different. There are no new 
 weapons, no new characters, the physics system remains unchanged, and the story is still as confusing 
 and mysterious as ever. People looking for a large-scale change in this expansion will be disappointed, 
 but they really shouldnt be. As stated above, the story of Half-Life is centered around mystery. 
 No one really completely understands whats going on. And there was nothing wrong with the mechanics 
 from before. With two more episodes on the way, dont expect Half-Life to totally switch directions. 
 This is an expansion off of Half-Life 2, its not Half-Life 3.
  
  As a whole, Episode One is a tremendous package. Offering the same amazing game-play and brand 
 new additions to the storyline, the retail price of $20 seems like a joke. Episode One will last 
 you around the five-hour mark. And while a five-hour game may not seem long at all, you have to 
 remember that this is an add-on to the original Half-Life 2 game. Also take into consideration 
 that two more episodes are due out that will expand the content even further. As long as you enjoyed 
 the first game and arent expecting a re-invention of the wheel, theres no reason why you shouldnt 
 pick this game up. As an expansion off of one of the highest rated games ever, there is much worse 
 you could do than purchasing Episode One. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddcromax
Rating: 8.8
Date: Oct 16, 2006 5:17 am PT
Review:  Episode 1 packs a few hours of intense combat and puzzle solving that would challenge most gamers 
 and Half Life fans. The game continues the storyline in a great fashion, giving you details but 
 not too much. Most gamers will end up with three to five hours of game play, which isn't bad in 
 and of it self, since you only pay $20 for it. But after a few hours, when you get into the story, 
 the puzzles etc. and suddenly, the game ends. You're left wanting more, a lot more. And that's 
 exactly what Valve does, making you eagerly await Episode 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreySeven
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 15, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  PLOT! You've been saved from the Citadel explosion by your allies, and you find yourself amidst 
 rubble and ruin being pick up by Dog and Alyx. And what do you do? Run away? Hell no, you go rushing 
 back into the maelstrom for more!
  
  I will note that there have been a lot of complaints concerned with the beginning of HL2. This 
 very site sees it as a cop-out . In my opinion, they're wrong. I simply couldn't have imagined 
 any better suited way to get our two heroes out of that mess. (Because, its obvious that once the 
 G Man has control of you in the warp sense, there's not a damn thing you can do about it, so its 
 only conclusive that you need a little help there) It not only accelerates the plot into this expansion, 
 but it shows you THE REVOLUTION IS ON and your xeno friends have now taken a direct role in the 
 fight. It's war now, baby!
  
  You're hooked up with Alyx as an ally from the start, and this time she's not so rude as to leave 
 you to your doom as endless wave of Combine soldiers attack you, as we experienced in the prison. 
 She's more useful now. Besides having a super key to all the doors in the world, she's got infinite 
 ammo and a lot of health. Her aim's pretty good too. You need her in Aftermath because you simply 
 don't have enough ammo to do it all yourself. Or health. And you certainly can't kill Ant Lions 
 and open doors at the same time. Okay, so there's more than one reason you need Alyx, the point 
 is she comes in handy. At times, the best you can do is to just keep a light on while she defends 
 you both, but when your light fails.... oh man.... just hope there's a flare somewhere.
  
  This expansion goes beyond the call with these new situations. The dependency makes for interesting 
 and challenging battles that sometimes are more about your brains than brawn. In other words you 
 dont' just sit there and shoot until your clip runs out, but you instead, for example, block the 
 source of the attack all together thus avoiding any further chance that you may be torn apart limb 
 form limb. The plot is still there, still furthering itself toward the culmination that we will 
 eventually get to in Episode 3, but we're not there yet. Instead, after all is said and done, you're 
 left with more problems making a smooth road for Episode2 to follow.
  
  One complaint. It's too short. Six hours of game play. However I speculated..... maybe short works 
 toward its advantage. Because I can't wait to play the next episode!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mnkyking
Rating: 9.2
Date: Oct 14, 2006 8:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is equal to Half Life 2 in almost every way. It has the awesome gameplay of the franchise 
 (run-and-gun action mixed with puzzle solving) plus the awesome graphics and sound to boot. Everything 
 that was good in Half Life 2 is back, and it's been improved on.
  
  The only complaint I have, and this is a common sentiment, is that the ame is to short. The game 
 is short, but I like the concept of episodic content where the game is cheap and you only have 
 to wait a few months for the sequal, and that totally makes up for the shortness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Redphazon2
Rating: 8.7
Date: Oct 13, 2006 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2: Episode One is the sequal to half life 2 and goes beyond City 17 and now gordon must 
 deal with the consequences of what happend at the end of HL2. Graphics are top-notch as usual and 
 HDR makes it look even better, character models look very impressive as well. Sound is nice as 
 well with some very good voice acting. Gameplay is the same as in Half Life 2, no complaints there. 
 The ONLY complaint about this game is that it's TOO short for a $20 price tag. The commentary track 
 kind of makes it worth it... but not really. Replayability is moderate, with the commentary track 
 and all.
  
  Overall, it's a solid FPS as HL2 even though it's a little too short. Not really sure if it's worth 
 $20 but it's fun nonetheless.
  
  Verdict: Buy It. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Umgar
Rating: 7.1
Date: Oct 9, 2006 10:33 am PT
Review:  HL2: EP1 picks up right where HL2 left off. It's good to see that Alex is still alive since that 
 is a serious question mark at the end of HL2. And of course it's great to step into the hazard 
 suit once more and bring the pain on the combine via gravity gun, crowbar, and other goodies.
 
  
  But beyond the story and character development in HL2: EP1 there isn't much there. The gameplay 
 is exactly what you're used to, there are no new weapons, and you are still fighting in City 17 
 so the levels feel very (very) familiar.
  
  Even on the most difficult setting you'll likely be through the game much sooner than you were 
 expecting and saying that's it?! 
  
  I'm a die-hard Half-Life fan and I was still disappointed in Episode One. Here's hoping Episode 
 Two will actually give us something new in the way of content, weapons, or gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THGarrett
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2006 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Well Gordon Freeman is back and this time he has Alyx to help him out. Taking place directly after 
 the events of Half-Life 2, Gordon Freeman must escape City 17 along with Alyx before the central 
 Combine Spire reactor fails and takes the city with it. The expansion adds some new types of enemies 
 such as the Combine Zombie (or as Alyx calls them Zombines) , which is a stronger Zombie type who 
 has the ability to become suicide bombers with their grenades. Unfortunately the game doesn't add 
 any new types of weapons, which is a bummer, but you do get more playtime with the super gravity 
 gun in the beginning, which was one of the most fun weapons to use in Half-Life 2. It was just 
 too bad they only let you use toward the very end of the game. Anyways as far as gameplay goes 
 it's more of the same with the exception that you have Alyx with you his time for the entire episode, 
 adding some extra firepower and humor to your arsenal. The game is only about 7-10 hours long depending 
 on fast you go through it, but it's pretty fresh with Alyx at your side. The graphics are improved 
 a bit with Valves impressive new High dynamic range (HDR) bloom-like option that makes the lighting 
 much for realistic and nice looking. Sound effects and music remain to be impressive as well as 
 the voice acting. Overall the game adds some great new things to an already great game. I can't 
 wait to see what Episode 2 brings to the table. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard62889
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 8, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good. In fact, it's better than HL2. Episode one is a game that expands on all 
 of the good aspects of HL2, and then runs with the for miles
  Rather, should run with them for miles, but doesn't. To put it plainly, My first time through the 
 game, on hard mind you, took me only four hours to beat. This is inexcusably short. But despite 
 the shortness, the rest of the game is excellent. Having alyx on your team is a welcome relief, 
 her AI is nice, her company is amusing, and her help in battle is very welcome, (though she does 
 seem rather invincible at points, and her infinite ammo is a little unrealistic) . The level design 
 is better than the first game, with a long creepy trudge through an underground tunnel system, 
 in which everything is pitch black, save for the light your flashlight emits. Alyx can only shoot 
 at what your shinning your flashlight at, adding a sense of claustrophobia and suspense. The latter 
 levels are also a enjoyable, having many fun and interesting gravity gun puzzles to solve.
  But, unfortunately, some of the things they should have changed, they left identical to HL2. The 
 weapon set is exactly the same... actually, it has one less weapon, the ant lion pherapods. the 
 graphics are practically the same, save for some HDR lighting, which is almost unnoticeable anyways. 
 But overall, for the price, I would suggest getting this game, Just don't expect to get anything 
 particularly amazing, especially in game length. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yazon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 8, 2006 3:41 am PT
Review:  So I had just finished playing another chapter from HL2 series. For me it was a greatest marathon 
 ever! I had bought both Half Life 2 and Episode One together, I installed them and played like 
 one game without a break (I mean virtual break, of course I was sleeping, studing and eating :) 
 ) . So I have a solid impression from both. Graphics - It is just great! You now my not-high-end 
 video card was able to run it on all max without antislising and on 1152x840 (or something like 
 that) . The world is beautiful, Havok is doing it's job great. Sound - It is also fantastic! All 
 the sounds of nature, zombies, soldiers and stuff like that sounds amazing. Plus to that the soundtrack 
 of the game, all the soundtracks, in the game were nice to hear and they fully fit the action of 
 the game. Gamepolay is nothing new same way of action-fight all the same weapons. The only new 
 thing in the game are new soldier zombies - Zombine (zombie + combine) as Alex called them. The 
 Episode One itself is a valuable part of Gordan's and Alex's adventures. It is worth of the game 
 itself. During the whole campain for getting out of the City 17 and Citadel as far as possible, 
 the game consists of solid action and constant fire. Alex is the greatest ingame partner of the 
 main character I have ever sen. She a real soldier and will cover you at all times. Of course the 
 game itself is tooooo short but I hope that we will see a longer story and even more action in 
 Episode Two. While in the meantime both Half Life 2 and Episode One will be a valuable addition 
 to your games collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stangsaleen2000
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 7, 2006 12:57 am PT
Review:  This is the first game in the Half-Life 3 episodes that is strangely called Half-Life 2 episode 
 1. First off I'll point out that if you like Half-life then you'll love this one. They put everything 
 that was in the last one and throw it all in your face to make an extremely action packed game. 
 They take every creature you ever fought in the second Half-life and make you fight it all at once. 
 If you thought Ravenholm was bad wait till you go into the depths of city 17. If you thought the 
 war in the streets of city 17 couldn't get any better, then you are wrong. This game never gives 
 you a break and keeps you in the action. The only problems I could find with it was that there 
 were no new weapons, the game is too short (about 6 hours) , and sometimes it would freeze on me 
 but that might of been because of my processor. Also there was no major developments in the storyline, 
 but it does seem to be building up to something great in the later episodes. Well since this game 
 is only $20 then the amount of gameplay you get is more than worth it and the weapons are the same, 
 but it was still just as fun to blow away some combine. Overall this game is a great sequel and 
 I definitely recommend it to all people who own PCs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mbouchey
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 4, 2006 10:16 am PT
Review:  As is expected, episode one has lived up to all other half life games to date. Albeit, it was increadibly 
 short, but that is the down side to this whole episode deal. The up side of course is that instead 
 of waiting for years and years for one large game to come out, we can all pick up the games as 
 they come out and get our fix that way.
  The graphics were improved over the originl half life two engine, and I noticed that team members 
 I was working with were more effective fighters and a lot better at working with me. In other words 
 the rest of the human race didnt just get in my way. The aspect of working with Alyx was also very 
 cool and enthraling. It added a whole lot to the story. I thought it was really interesting how 
 she could take a grenade, but if she couldnt, it would be impossible to get her through the game 
 alive.
  The story was really brought to life, and made much more of a focus in this game. Although in this 
 episode, most of the major points in the story are left incomplete, I didnt expect to get all the 
 answers, then what would be the point of two more episodes? The ending was really anticlimactic. 
 I was expecting a little more. I know that there are going to be more episodes, but I still wanted 
 something more challenging so that I felt like I accomplished something by beating this game. As 
 it stands, I didnt feel like I had really done anything.
  The game play was a little harder. Most of this was a reasult of new enemies and new weapons (those 
 mine things that you could pick up with your gravity gun and throw and they would explode) . The 
 learning curve is extremely quick if you have played before, but there are a few new tricks. However, 
 puzzles were a much more prominant part of this game than half life 2. Actually, if there was anything 
 that I was dissapointed with about half life two, its that the puzzles just didnt match up with 
 those of half life one. Episode one almost changes that. Although there were more puzzles, almost 
 all of them had to do with the gravity gun. As a result, they got a little repetative. However, 
 we are on the right track with the more puzzles, they just need to be a little more challenging 
 and skill based.
  Over all I was very impressed with this game and cant wait for the next episode to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hamodizzo
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2006 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Fact is, HL2 when it first came out was AMAZING! Episode 2 had added features &amp; elements that 
 clearly gave VALVE clarity of high tech work! I remember when the code got stolen in 2003 holding 
 the release of HL2, it's rag-doll affect scripts somehow got into another CG company's hand or 
 something of that affect... Well, it held off it's opening but it definately was worth the wait... 
 Even now I play different mods off the original build and I still advise it to the serious gamer! 
 Go out &amp; buy this game, it's HOT still! Even with COD2, FEAR &amp; the newly released games 
 it makes that modern gamer impact! $40.00 or $35.00 at WalMart it still gives the BANG for you 
 bucks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mark_03
Rating: 8.6
Date: Oct 23, 2006 4:59 am PT
Review:  By the time you actually get into the game your finished. The story missions were great but took 
 me around 4 hours to complete. This graphics are a slight improvement over HL2, mostly in charecters 
 facial expressions. The gameplay has been taken up a notch making it much more fun and inventive. 
 Now through out 90% of the game Alex is fighting alongside you. This is great fun while it lasts, 
 i personally wouldn't pay 20 dollars for it. The game has no replay value, apart from the multiplayer 
 which i havn't tryed. This is just a short friendly stroll through hl2 enviroments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruan404
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 30, 2006 1:38 am PT
Review:  THis game is awesome, you start of with a robot dog digging you up then you get a gun that can 
 lift almost anything. you learn everything how to do it and what to do from there it is simple. 
 When the difficulty level is easy the game is very easy but when it is hard it is quite difficult. 
 The graphics is good adn there is a lot of shiny objects. It is realsitic if you shoot ur enemy's 
 in the head they die. THis game is very fun to play adn you wont get over it quickly. U can shoot 
 locks and sounds go softer if you move away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ziegd
Rating: 8
Date: May 24, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  Fans who loved HL2 will find a lot to be happy about with Episode One, as it picks up right where 
 HL2 ended and is essentially a continuation of that game. The storyline is less ambiguous in E1, 
 which was a common complaint a lot of players had with its predecessor. Basically, Gordon and Alyx 
 have to get the hell out of Dodge, and every encounter in the game is a step towards that ultimate 
 goal. In that sense, E1 acts as a bridge, taking our heroes from where they ARE, towards whatever 
 unknown future awaits them, thus bringing a sense of closure to HL2. Graphics, sound, game play, 
 all are of the same top-notch caliber as HL2, and some of the action sequences, such as the ant-lion 
 garage or the pitch-black zombie-infested basement, are so intense that you'll often find yourself 
 leaning forward in your chair with your face pasted against the monitor. And fans of the original 
 Half Life will find some deja vu moments when Gordon enters certain interiors, possibly a sort 
 of homage to that classic.
  
  Although some new content would have been nice (there's basically none, with the exception of the 
 "zombines") , that's probably ok, since simply more HL2 is enough for a lot of players. Still, the 
 addition of more new elements would help make E1 feel more like a true stand-alone game, and not 
 just an add-on. One aspect that was expanded dramatically was the development of Alyx as a "real" 
 person. We see her display emotions like humor, compassion, anxiety, even vulnerability, and she 
 becomes as real a character as I've ever encountered in my virtual travels. (I even wanted to get 
 her email address so we could keep in touch between missions, but as you know, Gordon is pretty 
 shy and doesn't talk much.) As cool as Alyx is, I personally found her to be both a boon and a 
 bane. As a sidekick, she's usually great to have around; she's tough, resourceful, and never runs 
 out of ammo. But her gung-ho style and proclivity to shoot on sight means Gordon is pretty much 
 confined to commando tactics through out the game. I sometimes felt that Alyx was the one in charge, 
 keeping Gordon's manhood in a jar and only letting him have it back when she needed someone to 
 take down a gun ship or crawl thru a vent. The ability to issue some rudimentary commands would 
 have made me feel more in control. Still, a minor enough gripe, given that having her around is 
 way better than going it solo, especially if the game had gone on for a decent amount of time.
 
  
  Which brings me to The Uglythis is where I pull out my soapbox and talk about how I think some 
 particular aspect affects not only this individual game, but also the industry as a whole. When 
 the concept of episodic gaming was first introduced, I was ecstatic at the thought that I wouldn't 
 have to wait 4 or 5 years for my next Half Life fix. But if Episode One represents the future of 
 game releases, then I have to confess some slight disappointment. Forget about the significant 
 increase in my per-hour game cost. (Old math, new math, Chinese math, I don't care what you use, 
 $20 for 4-5 hours of game play is roughly twice as much as $45 for the 15-20 hours of game play 
 provided by HL2. Still, I can accept the increase if it means I get a regular dose every 6 months.) 
 And forget about the fact that, at 4-5 hours long, Episode One can hardly be considered for any 
 "Game of the Year" titles. If we're honest about it, 4-5 hours is really just an expansion pack, 
 albeit an exceptional one, but an expansion pack none-the-less.
  
  What concerns me is the level of "satisfaction" provided. Practically every player who posted an 
 opinion about E1, even those who scored it a perfect 10, made some comment about wanting moreabout 
 not feeling fully satisfied. Put it this waywhen I finished HL2, I pushed away from my computer 
 with a feeling similar to pushing away from the dinner table on Thanksgiving. It was awesome, but 
 I'd had enough for now. In other words, I was FULL. Episode One, by comparison, was more like a 
 visit to an (excellent) salad barit was good, but just not a fully satisfying experience. Now, 
 truth be told, Valve could probably release a 2 hour stick-figure cartoon of Half Life, and I'd 
 still buy it, I'm that much of a fan. But I know that Gabe and crew have far too much pride in 
 the franchise, and far too much respect for its fans, to ever do something like that. So I offer 
 up this tiny suggestion, or maybe "request" is a more appropriate word. In future releases, I hope 
 you'll give us dinner, or at least a good lunch, and not just a midnight snack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anddyr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 27, 2006 6:00 am PT
Review:  I see it now. Freeman has been a lone wanderer too long, walking along a predetermined path from 
 A to B - or worse... driving. Dont get me wrong, I really enjoyed the previous games, and the 
 different isn't that big. But not moving around alone suddenly makes the linear gameplay much more 
 believable.
  
  With Alyx by your side the entertainment value of the game has increased. How she helps you and 
 you help her, is well balanced. And since the price matches the length of the game, I cant say 
 anything else than I can't wait to play episode Two - Even though it looks like Alyx is killed 
 in the beginning!!! hmm... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahba2005
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2008 11:55 am PT
Review:  Maybe the important item to make the resumption of half life is the avarice alone erupt of Dr Gordon 
 Freeman. We always must see the scandal of the continuance of the good game but episode one is 
 make better than half life two and its so amazing. episode one have some problem: the game is so 
 short. environment and weapon of enemy is repetitive . the game make with source engine+High Dynamic 
 Rang Lithing Technology.
  Publisher and Developer of game usually make the continuance for the game for 2 proof:1- avocation 
 the more money.2- answer the mysterious questions in the previous version.
  The gameplay of half life two episode one is amazing. the game have so many difficult puzzle and 
 more dither but don't afraid Mrs. alyx help you to contiue you way and finish game. the point is 
 so marvelous is the infinite ammo of her gun. you must use the gravity gun to untie the puzzle. 
 section of driving in episode one is so terrible.
  the sound of episode one is good and perfect. the sound make with enemy and you is so good and 
 make the intersting barley. the sound of blast, fire, walk and............ is amazing. if you see 
 the face of characters when he or she speaking you can see motion of their face.
  howmuch we talk about the graphic and face of characters yet we little say. the engine of episode 
 one is performance than half life 2. game maker excess so many new technology to game for example: 
 Bloom. HDR. The menu of game is same menu we see in half life 2. the effect of fire. water and ........... in 
 game is amazing. through use the HDR technology in game (if your card support it) environment of 
 game is perfect and better than half life 2. the shadow in game in best position.
  The AI of episode one isn'i good to enough. the enemy of is:  
 craps. stlakers. antlion. the enemy AI is better and half life two but isn't good. the weapon isn't 
 change in game whether for you whether for enemy.
  the half life episode one is short and bettwen 4 and 5 o'clock. so many american gamers protest 
 for the expensive price of game but episode one value to play once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: napalm_addict
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 24, 2006 2:52 pm PT
Review:  As almost everyone else says about EP1, it's just too short. Plain and simple. But, its the kind 
 of game that if it had been carried longer, it would be way better. The Half-life series is my 
 favorite game series of all time, and I trust Valve with it. If they say that it's better for the 
 game series that the next three installments are Episodic, and shorter, then so be it. The thing 
 about HL, is that each episode knowingly adds something new to the mix while keeping the pros of 
 the previous installment. HL1 started it off with the groundbreaking storyline and great gameplay, 
 then HL2 added to the awesome storyline, and added much more to the gameplay such as new weapons 
 and new foes. Then, EP1 comes along and gives the player a taste of almost constant co-op play. 
 This made the player feel a little better during the 'scarier' parts of the game, to have Alyx 
 there with you so that you can half-way depend on her to watch your back. As well, there were elements 
 like clogging up the holes that the ant-lions come out of with cars. This was an interesting and 
 thought provoking puzzle. Some people instantly saw the connection, but some, after getting mad 
 at the hordes of antlions decided to do some 'ridiculous' thing to stop the onrush, accidentally 
 stumbling onto the solution. All in all, the episode was a necessary link in the storyline that 
 bridged City 17 to the countryside. But once again, the length, no matter how necessary, is kind 
 of a shortcoming. But until Valve completely destroys the entire series somehow, I will enjoy any 
 game that takes place in the Half-Life universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: realmanishere
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 24, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  I like new teamwork that been introduced in this game, as alyx become a better fighter and and 
 more interesting as character, graphics still the best up to date, new character interaction and 
 reaction to the enviroment, like if you move flashlight on alyx she would react the same as real 
 person would, new lightining HDR and more action, only thing I didn't like that it was to short 
 , it lost concept of humanity, and value $19.00 is not so good as well, but it still worth to play 
 and I'm still waiting for next episode, hopefully it would be longer and better than first episode. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.7
Date: Sep 24, 2006 8:12 am PT
Review:  Half life 2 Episode 1 starts off right after the original Half Life 2 ends. The whole episode is 
 basically you and the humans trying to escape the citadel and city 17 before it sends a transmission 
 to the combine world. There isnt much new in terms of enemies or weapons in the expansion and most 
 of the levels are indoors in dark areas. They do have some more somewhat creative puzzles by turning 
 on the power to bridges and such. In this game you are paired up with alyx throughout almost the 
 whole game with her fighting alongside you. The graphics and sound are still top notch and they 
 are pretty much the same as in Half Life 2. The expansion isnt as good as i thought it would be 
 but its still alot of fun and worth the 20 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: net_mugger
Rating: 8.9
Date: Sep 20, 2006 10:30 am PT
Review:  It's a cool shooter! If you haven't played it yet try it! You won't regret it...:) Nice story... Anyway 
 it's not to much link between the first half life series and HL2! I played almost all half life 
 2 series so I know what I'm talking about. The game is not too short but not too long either. Many 
 of my friends played it and convinced me to do so. I consider the graphics deserve that 10, the 
 gamplay is also suitable. I don't apreciate much the sound in this half life and also in the other 
 series. That would be all!: D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 14, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2: Episode One story begins from where Half-Life 2 story ended. Dr. Gordon Freeman now teams 
 up with Al yx Vance, Barney and rebels ,along with Dog to eliminate all Baddies and escape .The 
 amazing gravity gun is back for Dr. Freeman. The game has excellent graphics, top-notch action, brilliant 
 AI, Thrills etc. Graphics in the game have much advanced since Half-Life 2. Specially the HDR effects 
 in the game is awesome. The game even surpasses in some places than original Half life 2. You get 
 newer, much better elements in the game .Sadly you miss the speedboat and jeep from original Half 
 life 2. There is also creepy moment's in the game caused by the undead zombies ,headcrabs etc. The 
 Game is also short in respective to Half Life 2. But the game never bores you for a single moment. It 
 is a serious shooting game which should not be missed by any gamers. I highly recommend it to those 
 persons who have missed this game. Plus you get popular multiplayer games like Half Life 2 deathmatch 
 and Half life 1 deathmatch Source with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sangman
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 17, 2006 5:40 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2: Episode One is a really addictive game, probably because the people at Valve are geniuses 
 when it comes to trying to keep the player from quitting. I found that I only paused the game for 
 eating or for when nature called. The pack has really clever design - I'm not going to say that 
 everything is very interesting, but the painful parts are few and the rest of the game makes up 
 for them.
  
  However I got a 'co&iuml; tus interruptus' feeling when the game abruptly came to an end. It just 
 felt way too short. Still, I paid only 20 for this and I think I did get my money's worth. FPS 
 fans that don't mind linearity should get this, and all the other Half Life games if they're playing 
 it for the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zonelezz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 15, 2006 11:10 pm PT
Review:  I recently jsut finished Halflife 2: Episode 1, and the question is, is this game really worth 
 20 bux. So this game takes place right after Half life 2 and to me, well your still left hanging 
 on the story. I really dont know why valve is planning to do the next half life series in sections 
 or should i say episodes. Its kinda lame because it feels like your just playing a demo, and you 
 gotta wait again to find out what happens next. I think they should jsut quit the damn episodes 
 and jsut make a full game. Maybe its just me. Anyways so lets get on with the review of the game.
 
  
  Graphics: Well i didn't see much improvment in graphics since half life 2. They said there was 
 some new dynamic light graphics implanted in episode 1. Im running a nvidia 7800 GTX and really, 
 i didnt see much dynamic lights maybe just a bunch of reflections. Overall though the animations 
 are really smooth and sweet, since Alyx has some crazy moves during in game when shes by your side.
 
  
  Controls: Well its your standard mouse and keyboard shooting conrol. Movement base are still the 
 same, basically point, shoot, run. You can evade some bullets with the speed burst and hide behind 
 most objects. The chance of you kiling the guy thats aiming for you is pretty low when your behind 
 an object, theres really no strategy in this. So its pretty simple with the controls on the pc.
 
  
  Story: Well we all know for sure, that the story had to be continued since this takes place right 
 after half life 2. Basicallly your with Alyx and trying to escape city 17. This game is rather 
 short sine valve is planning to make 3 episodes to rap it up. So your left hanging again to the 
 conclusion of half life 2. But if ya never played half life 2 and your going straight into episode 
 1. DONT! you will ruin it for your self cause, well you dont have a damn clue what your doing, 
 who your controlling, or who the heck is the chick. So i recommend you play half life 2 to get 
 a feel of the story before moving onto episode 1.
  
  Gameplay: Fun factor for this game, i would give it a 4 out of 5. You start off with 3 modes, easy, 
 normal, and hard. Reason why i wouldn't give it a full 5, its too damn easy . Alyx has unlimited 
 bullets and she never dies. So you basically jsut have to avoid everything and run around dodging 
 while she caps everything for you. But over all its pretty fun game and if your a FPS fan, i recommend 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Glordit
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 14, 2006 11:20 pm PT
Review:  It is truly on of the best additions to one of the best games ever (Mabey THE best game ever) but 
 dont get your hopes up for a lenthy strory TYhe fun only lasts for a while leaving you crying and 
 confudsed, as valve seems to like thier Clifhanger endings.
  
  In this 'Episode' of half-life you are Trasported from the Citadel and found by Alex, from there 
 the story takes you back to the citadel and through the streets of city 17.
  
  I took note here at how valve recycled the gameplay from Half-life 2 to make it even better, like 
 HF2 you chug through the streets/countryside and get your way to the citadel, here you chug away 
 from it :) won't say too much...
  
  Conclusion: Worth playing, too short, cant wait for Episode 2... GET IT NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quakeknight1991
Rating: 9.8
Date: Sep 14, 2006 8:29 am PT
Review:  It is true that half life 2 episode one is short and its even shorter if you are a
  
  skilled first person shooter player. It also hasnt got any new weapons but it has a great new kind 
 of gameplay than half life 2. Half life 2 was a stand alone, half life 2 episode one is a coop. 
 Half life 2 episode one has two new enemies: The Combine zombie or Zombine and The Stalker. Alyx 
 ia is
  
  very good and the graphics in episode one are better than the graphics of
  
  the original half life 2. So if you played half life 2 you MUST play half life 2 episode one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkcellblack
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 14, 2006 6:20 am PT
Review:  As I agree with many others, it was way too short.
  But I have heard others speak of HL2: E1 as a "rip off"... bull-dozer.
  
  Is was $19.99 people 
 come on. And the action was amazing and it was a creepy as the first. And the graphics of course 
 are still superb.
  
  This game was no such thing as a rip off, this was another well made game in which i played through 
 3 times before I could stop playing it.
  
  This was an awesome game, all though, just as we were escaping the city, the game ended, the length 
 of this game was pethetic. But its price was just.
  
  -DarkCell- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slavetotruth
Rating: 5.7
Date: Sep 13, 2006 7:05 pm PT
Review:  You can expect a quality gaming experience. And yes, you will not be dissapointed with having a 
 few more levels to play. But dont expect anything beyond that. Dont expect new enemies. Dont expect 
 major story line developments. Dont expect vast new landscapes. All that stays the same. Then, 
 as quickly as it began, it is over.
  
  I finished it in two relatively short sittings at the hardest settings - and I am not an all night 
 gamer. I immediately wanted to know why in the world they released this game. I immediately thought 
That was nothing more than a demo for the next release "
  
  If you got a few bucks to kill, and you want a few more levels, sure go ahead. Its still HL2. I'd 
 wait. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrGabriel
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 12, 2006 9:39 am PT
Review:  I wasn't as overwhelmed as many people were by Half Life 2 - sure it was pretty and was fun in 
 parts but suffered from being very repetitive and frankly wasn't the 'greatest game ever' that 
 all the fan boys and girls would have you believe. Aside from the grpahics engine there wasn't 
 a single thing about it that was that innovative and the plot was simplistic to say the least.
 
  
  Episode 1 is actually, as a game, somewhat better. I'm not sure why, but the gameplay and the atmosphere 
 just seem to work better. Graphics are outstanding and sound is excellent.
  
  However (and this is a big however) , it really is one of the biggest rip offs that I've ever bought. 
 Not only is it astonishingly short (just finished it in an afternoon's play) but the amount of 
 gameplay is further reduced by the sheer volume of character chat. I know this is probably a reflection 
 of the developers trying to address the criticisms of HL2 that it no more than a dressed up run 
 and gun, but really - I'm not kidding - large amounts of the game (particularly at the beginning) 
 are taken up with Alex talking at you. It wouldn't be so bad if all this chat actually imparted 
 plot or anything useful - but sadly its just character building guff that adds little to the game 
 at all.
  
  So although its actually quite a good game the publishers are visiting an outrageous con on players; 
 pay for a full length game in three parts that are individually priced less than a full game but 
 surprise surprise, when you add their prices together you actually end up paying way over the odds 
 for a full length game. Add to this the ever annoying and highly intrusive Steam software - having 
 paid over the odds for a very short game I then have to have an internet connection to actually 
 play the thing and down load software I didn't buy and don't want - and the pros of the game itself 
 are outweighed by the cons.
  
  Shame because actually, if it had been 3 times as long and the standard price for a game it would 
 (IMO) be a better buy than HL2. Hence I've given it a 3 for value as its a third of a full game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringndaheat08
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 10, 2006 9:29 pm PT
Review:  Episode One is the follow-up to the award winning Half Life 2. It begins as you and a girl named 
 Alex in a wasteland know as City-17. If you have beaten Half Life 2, then you'll know why you are 
 there and so on. The Gameplay is excellent. The enemies are smart and hard to kill, making every 
 firefight a memorable one. The puzzles are also fun, thanks to the Gravity Gun. The Graphics and 
 Sound are extrodinary. The new VALVE graphic engine is top notch and the sound is so real that 
 you feel like your there. Everything is very immersive.
  
  Overall, Episode One is worth the wait, worth your money, and definetly worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrei_steaua
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2006 12:50 am PT
Review:  Since 1999, when i played for the first time Half Life i never encountered a better FPS. It has 
 the story, the sounds, the game-play, everything. The game engine is fantastic. Continuing the 
 story in such a way is absolutely superb ... i hope they don't stop making Episode Two and Three 
 and continue on Half Life 3 with a new engine if they can, better graphics and so on. Once again 
 i must say there is no comparison to Half Life, is the best i'v played so far, and probably the 
 i'll play for a long time. Thanks to all ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renorlibrado
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2006 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Valve gave us Half-Life games. They are very long until they gave us HL2: EP1. This game is so 
 fun! So much action on every corner. Can you survive as Gordon Freeman? ANyways the Co-op game 
 with Alyx is fullfiling. With commentary from Alyx you never feel alone. She gives the game life. 
 Puzzles are quite amusing. Zombines are pretty tough tho, but they are like kamikazes..... in which 
 they blow up but themselves with a grenade. Its cool though that you can pull it away from them 
 with a gravity gun. Anyways the bottom line is altough this game is an episode its pretty short, 
 i want my episodes long. But then again these episode get better and better all the time. Try the 
 game, it wont give you much about the answers about the storyline nevertheless its alll about the 
 RUSH!-Reno Librado 
::::::

::::::
UserName: klash_patil
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 8, 2006 12:18 pm PT
Review:  NOTE : This reveiw assumes you've played through Half-Life 2, and may contain Half-Life 2 spoilers. 
 Rest assured that it does not contain any Half-Life 2: Episode One spoilers. Half-Life 2 : Episode 
 one is a bit skimpy on content, but delivers at every level imaginable (and at a few that are not) . 
 One of the greatest (and shortest) games ever.
  
  There is something about the Half-Life 2 universe that seems just right - possibly a result of 
 the attention to detail Valve pays when developing games. This game is no exception. In fact, Valve 
 have gone overboard this time- resulting in the highly polished, nearly perfect gem that is Episode 
 one. It ushers in a new level of NPC interaction, to the extent that it feels real - almost human. 
 The problem with writing a review for Episode one is describing the game while leaving out spoilers, 
 which in turn leads to a bundle of vague statements and opinions that fail to portray the essence 
 of the memorable experience (for the most part) that the game provides. The game picks up right 
 where HL2 ends, with the G-Man placing you in darkness, leaving Alyx to be engulfed by the budding 
 inferno. It suffices to say that not everything goes according to the G-Man's plan, which is where 
 Episode one begins. And my, what a beginning! The game looks and feels absolutely breath-taking, 
 giving you the first glimpse at the markedly better graphics and NPC behaviour. The action does'nt 
 begin to pick up until a much later stage, giving you sufficient time to marvel at the gameplay 
 innovations and of course, at Alyx. Valve have taken NPC behaviour to a new level, often making 
 you forget that you're playing a game with virtual characters. (to call them bots would be a downright 
 insult) . Alyx stays with you through much of Episode one, and her characteristic wit, implicit 
 trust and her belief in you makes her seem more human than any NPC in any game - ever. A few old 
 friends return, and watching Alyx interacting with them makes you wonder if professional actors 
 could do it any better. The keyword here, as it was for Half-Life 2, is variety. Episode one does 
 not offer much variety in the way of environments, enemies or weapons - all three being the primary 
 elements of any first person shooter, but the magic of Half-Life 2 still persists - There are moments 
 that will keep you at the edge of your chair, moments that will test your twitch reflexes, moments 
 that require plenty of imagination and a keen presence of mind, and moments when you are treated 
 to vast vistas of unparalleled visual beauty that will leave you gaping for minutes at a time.
 
  
  Gameplay in Episode one is usually about cooperation, with Alyx and you working as a team in innovative 
 ways. To reveal such situations here would be spoiling the fun of finding it out yourselves, but 
 rest assured that such sections of the game are immensely satisfying. That apart, Episode one has 
 plenty of puzzle solving, a la Half-LIfe 2, often requiring you to use game physics to your advantage. 
 Such puzzles are usually solved solo, with Alyx temporarily seperated from you in some (too) convenient 
 fashion. The AI has been cranked up, and striders are now much more menacing than before. Striders 
 and gunships now use the environment in dangerously ingenious ways, requiring you to think on your 
 feet. SInce most arenas are now partially destructible, and you are never really safe, even behind 
 (often destructible) cover. Thankfully, Alyx can hold up her own and cover your back, eliminating 
 the need of having to protect her. There are'nt many new enemies, but the new one (s) do have a 
 few tricks up their sleeves. Combine can now rappel down from buildings, causing you to keep gazing 
 all around you, atleast while you're surrounded by structures while in city 17. Besides, killing 
 a combine who's halfway down a wall leads to a fantastic display of rag doll animation - and don't 
 we all love ragdolls! Most of the game takes place in city 17, and a part of it in a certain ominous 
 skyscraper. While this does sound like a rehash of the Half-Life 2 environments, it feels drastically 
 different. The city lies in ruins, and most structures are falling apart. Tumbling debris, fly 
 ash and smoke effects add to the overall desolate feel that the game strives to provide the environments 
 with, and the cleverly chosen colour hues add a subtle effect to the scene. The game is filled 
 to the brim with detail, and while Half-Life 2 tended to reward inquisitive players with bits and 
 chunks of the storyline, Episode one has several self referencial puns (mostly mouthed by Alyx 
 and the rebels) and witty humour voiced by the inimitable Dr. Kleiner. Periodic sightings of the 
 G-Man are now replaced with something analogous, only much more.... sinister. In a tribute to the 
 original Half-Life, NPC-NPC battles abound in Episode one, often ending in surprising ways. Overall, 
 Episode one has plenty of content that will make Half-Life veterans smile (and in some cases, guffaw) . 
 Visually, Episode one delivers. The source engine has been upgraded with better textures and more 
 materials on screen than in Half-LIfe 2, and HDR adds a significant bit to the image quality. Specular 
 highlights are very nicely toned up, with HDR making them seem vibrant and dynamic, and while the 
 attempt to simulate the eye's adaptation to variation in luminosity is rather overdone, it pays 
 off. A vision persistence effect (some kind of motion blur) has also been added, which startles 
 you during the rare occasions it occurs in. Remarkably, the graphics are very, very scalable. On 
 my low-mid range eight pipe card, Episode one gave playable (30+) framerates with the eye candy 
 at maximum throughout the game, with 2xAA and 4xAF at 1024X768. Interestingly, the developers often 
 talk of a "performance budget" limiting the scale of a scene (with the commentary mode on - more 
 about this later.) , implying perhaps that the scalability of the game has more to do with level 
 and set piece design than the source engine itself. The scalability was a pleasant surprise, though. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Renathar
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 6, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  When I got Episode One, I couldn't wait to play it and see how if they had improved on it from 
 the original Half Life 2, and it doesn't dissapoint. The game picks up right after the ending of 
 Half Life 2, and continues the story line from there. Your main goal is to cool down the Citadel, 
 and get as out of City 17 before it is destroyed. You don't get any new vehicles, or any new weapons, 
 but you do get some fun new gameplay. Alyx is with you through the whole episode, and you can really 
 tell that the developers tried to add to her character. Even though you can't shoot and kill her 
 directly, you can still let her die by not reacting to set events, such as having to deflect falling 
 debris to keep your elevator from crashing down. An instance where she is helps you out is when 
 she climbs up in a building, and picks up a Combine sniper rifle to give you cover fire. The storyline 
 is great, although it does leave a few unanswered quiestions from Half Life 2. Dog appears for 
 a short cameo in the very beggining of the game, and a new enemy is introduced, to be set up in 
 the next episode, the Hunte (you only see it from a far-off video transmission) . The gunplay is 
 just as fun as before, and the enemy AI has been improved on a bit. As far as the graphics go, 
 you'll see more of what you did in Lost Coast. An interesting addition is that Alyx can reprogram 
 roller-mines to fight for you. The gravity gun is with you since the start of the game, and you'll 
 be using it to solve puzzles throughout the course of the game. My only criticism of Episode One 
 is that it's just too short, but I guess it does mean that we won't have to wait so long for future 
 releases. I'm looking forward to Episode 2. I give this game a little higher than a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbrruunnoo
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 6, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 episode one is the sequel of half life 2, valve decided to launch three episodes before 
 the half life 3, so the gamers always keep playing half life and don't get bored waiting for the 
 next game. About the game: you begin in city 17, the vourtigaunts saved alyx from the explosion 
 in breen's reactor, and they took you out from the place you where with GMan. So you're not working 
 with GMan in this sequel, and you wake up with alyx tring to find you with dog, then when they 
 find you you speak to dr. kleiner and he says that the core in the citadel is going to blow up 
 and you have to activate the containment system to buy some time to get ou of the city before it 
 blows up, when you are activating the containment system alyx finds out that they were trying to 
 blow the reactor to send a secret transmision, and the only way to sen it since breens portal was 
 destroyed, was to blow up thecore and send the trasmistion to were ever they came from, thus destrying 
 the whole citadel. Alyx pulls out a copy of the transmition to show it to Dr. Kleiner, and then 
 Alyx and Gorgon have to escape from the city before the citadel blows up, and in the way out of 
 the city they help the other survivors evacuate the city by train. In the end Alyx and Gordon are 
 escaping the city by train and the citadel blows up and the transmition is sent.
  The graphics are good, better than in half life 2, they added HDR lightening, and some new shaders. 
 The sound is awsome, and the sound track too. The gameplay is pretty much the same from half life 
 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tommorgan88
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 6, 2006 4:38 am PT
Review:  As soon as you hear G-mans sinister introduction and you step off the train at the beginning of 
 Half Life 2, you know you are about to take part in something special. Dropped straight into the 
 action, the game doesnt let up until the final scene. Unfortunately, that particular scene left 
 many people somewhat disappointed. A term I use very loosely. Indeed. It could hardly ruin what 
 was last years best game ever, but it certainly was a let-down. Valve is aiming with Episode 
 One to not only rectify this problem, but transform the way we receive games and set up a trilogy 
 of episodes that have the potential to be even more of a hit than the original game. Finding a 
 way to explain how both Gordon and Alyx survived the explosion at the end of Half Life 2 proved 
 easy for Valve, using previously unseen powers of the mystical vortigaunts. Episode One opens explosively 
 in the ruins of City 17, with the imminent collapse of the Combine Citadel and a steady stream 
 of human refugees fleeing from a city in chaos. After being uncovered by Alyx and Dog, you are 
 instantly thrown into the action by re-entering the Citadel to prevent a pending core overload. 
 Effectively, this gives you another fifteen minutes to play with the super-gravity-gun, making 
 combat far too easy for a player thats already completed the original game. The game starts proper 
 once you escape the Citadel into the ruins of City 17. Plunged into pitch-darkness with only the 
 gravity gun, you are forced to illuminate oncoming enemies with your flashlight while Alyx attacks 
 them, until you can find a weapon. Alyxs interaction with you throughout the game is a testament 
 to Valves character development, with superb voice acting and facial animations really bringing 
 your constant companion to life, making you connect with her on a far greater level than any other 
 AI character from the first game. Hearing the menacing growls of the new enemy, the Zombine (zombified 
 combine soldiers that rush at you with grenades) , only to discover it was Alyx joking around, brings 
 a completely new experience to the otherwise generic return to the half life world.
  On the subject of realism, the graphics of Half Life 2, particularly the characters and Valves 
 excellent facial expressions, helped make it so successful. Episode one is no different, although 
 the initial release of the source engine is indeed beginning to show its age, particularly against 
 higher detailed games such as Oblivion and Prey providing much more eye candy. HDR lighting, as 
 shown off in the Lost Coast tech demo, has been added to Episode One, as well as several other 
 high profile Steam games such as Day of Defeat: Source. A unique feature is the Phong shader, 
 making characters react to differing light sources. While this may make Episode One a cut above 
 the original game graphically, it doesnt appear that revolutionary. We will be eagerly awaiting 
 the source Engines next major revision, with games such as Portal and Team Fortress 2 promising 
 many new features, such as depth of field, which will make them truly next generation.
  While episodic gaming may be the future, it also presents the question as to whether it is the 
 right method of distributing new games. The relatively short lifespan of Episode One can be seen 
 as typical for an episodic game, while the multiplayer bundle included (Half Life 2 deathmatch 
 and Half Life deathmatch: source) will be in most peoples steam accounts already, meaning the 
 prospect of going back for a second outing into the Half-Life universe must be enough to entice 
 gamers. Despite the first SIN episode including the entire first game as part of its release package, 
 and Episode 2 promising both Portal and Team Fortress 2 as its multiplayer components, such freebies 
 are not guaranteed to be included with other, less high profile games, which could easily leave 
 gamers wanting more, or even worse turning them away from episodic games. This would be a disaster 
 for content delivery systems such as Steam, and with classic game characters such as Sam and Max 
 making a return to our PCs and going episodic, it is likely that such games are the future, whether 
 they are initially successful or not. While not without its problems, both in-game and surrounding 
 the nature of its release, Episode One provides not only a well thought out and technologically 
 masterful example of Valves prowess at making challenging, exciting and emotionally involving 
 games, but also that Episodic gaming is the future, whether people are ready for it or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kavehmj
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2: Episode One
  
  
  :  
 (  
 
   : Valve Software
  : 
 EA Games
   : Jun 1, 2006
  
 
     :
 
  Game Spot: 8.7
  IGN: 8.5
  Game Rankings: 88
   : 
 8.7
  
    :  
  1998    
   Half Life   
 .     
    
      
 ....     
     . 
    
     
     
     
    ) 
       
     
      
     
   
    
     Half Life  
     
      
   .
 
     
     
    
 .     
    
      
      
     
     
  .    
     
     
     
    
  .
  
       
      
  (  2004)  
     
     
  .   
      
      
   (   
     
      
     
  )    
    
    . 
     
     
      
      
    . 
    
      
      
      
      
     
      
 .   
     
 .   
   4d   
     
    . 
     
     
       
     
  .   
      
     
       
    . 
     
       
     
    .  
      
    
      
     
 )    
  ( )   
     
   .
        
     Valve Software 
      
      
     Half Life 2: Aftermatch 
  .  EA   
     
  VU Games    
    
     
      
     2006  
     Half Life 
 2: Episode One   . 
     
 :
  
   :  
     
  Half Life    
    . 
      
   . 
      
     
  .   
    
     
     
    
      
      
      (G Man)  
 .     
     
      
     
       
    . 
     
     
      
  .   
      
   17   
    .
      
      
      
    
      
  Half Life 2     
   ) 
     
   ( ) 
     
 .
  
    (GamePlay) :   
     
     
      
  .    
     
    ( 
    ) 
  .   
      
 (    
 )   
    . 
      
      
     
     
   .
     
     
     
      
     
     
  .    
  Half Life  Half Life 2   
      
      
     
     
      
   (  
   ) 
     
     
    .  
      
     
     
  .    
     
     
     
    . 
     
      
      
      
    
      
      
     
  .   
      
      
      
     !!
 
     
    
  Half Life 2  .  
    
    Combine troops  
     
      
    . 
      
     
    
     
 .     
     
      
  .  
    
      
      
   .  
     
     
     
    . 
     
     
      
      
      
     
       
    Episode Two  . 
   :  
    
     
     
     
      
     
  .   
     
     
      
    
     
      
  .   
     
      
      
     
      
    . 
     
    Valve  
      
    Patch  
      
 .   
      
     
     
     
       
 .
      
       
   . 
    
     
     
     
      
  .  
       
      
     
    
 .   
      
      
   
     
     
    
 .
      
    
     
      
  .   
      
      
   .
  
   :  
     
      
 .   
      
      
     
   ....   
     
     
    . 
    
     
     
       
   (  
    
 )   .
 
  
    : 
    
     
      
  .  
   4d   
     
      
     
      
     
    . 
     
      
     
      
     
      
     
    
  .   
     
    
      
      
      
      
     
     
 .
      
    . 
    
      
     
     
     
     
     
  .   
       
     
     
     
     
 .
  
   :   
      
     
     . 
    
     
     
      
    
     
      
     
     
    .  
      
      
     
     
       
       
       
   .
 
      
      
      
     
     
      
     
 .
  
      
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
     Half Life 2: Episode 
 One      
    
 .    
      
      
   .   
     
    . 
     
     
    
  . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_haven
Rating: 8.8
Date: Sep 2, 2006 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Well worth the twenty bucks for more hl2 fun. I'd pick it up even if you hadnt played the series 
 before. They even give you an offer to download hl2 proper for twenty more dollars through valve's 
 steam software. Its an all-around good time. The gameplay starts like the other hl games, in a 
 creative way. You basically pick up right off where hl2 ended... and I mean litterally. Your main 
 mission during the game is to excape the city before it goes kaboom. No easy task, but therein 
 lies the fun. Your companion Alyx joins you once again but even more so that she was in the first 
 game. Shes an almost constant during the game helping you overcome obstacles, enemies and even 
 some unexpected wit. It brings a little bit of humanity to the otherwise bleak landscape that is 
 the half life universe. It is short... about 4 hours or so, but its an expansion.. and with this 
 coming out less than two years after the last game, its a good start to a great series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adam_R
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 28, 2006 11:40 pm PT
Review:  Episode 1 is another highly polished and well produced Valve game that has the feel of a full length 
 game at a fraction of the cost. Lasting only 5 to 6 hours it gives you more of the best action 
 found in Half-Life 2 with a few more interesting dynamics. If you follow the story of the Half-Life 
 series, Episode 1 is a must have. According to Valve and some wild speculation found on wikipedia 
  , Episodes 1, 2 and 3 will finish off the current story 
 arc started in HL2, while another episode (currently named Episode 4) will start another story 
 arc. Valves switch to episodic content means that we probably wont be seeing a full Half-Life 
 game for some time (if at all) with each iteration of the story being presented in episodic chunks. 
 Episode 1 follows the storytelling methods found in the Half-Life series with very subtle references 
 and information found throughout the game.
  
  Graphically, Episode 1 greatly improves on HL2 with increased facial texturing and HDR lighting 
 (which looks awesome) . I have a X1900XT, and with everything on full the game really takes things 
 to a new level.
  
  Forgetting the graphics, though, the action is more than enough to make this episode shine. The 
 short length of Episode 1 doesnt stop it from containing some of the best battles found in the 
 series to date. Alyx is with the player throughout the entirety of the game, and although most 
 games that attempt this fail miserably, Episode 1 pulls it off extremely well. Other characters 
 from HL2 also feature, such as Barney and Dog. No new weapons are presented, and most of those 
 found in HL2 make a return.
  
  Episode 1 continues the complex story of the Half-Life series and gives 5 to 6 hours of awesome 
 gameplay. I give it a 9.6 with the only downside being that I want more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gPiOrzeL
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 27, 2006 9:14 am PT
Review:  I thing Episode one is great game, but got 1 big problem. first time i played it on medium i finish 
 it in 5 hours.. I hope Episode two will by twice longer!
  What i realy love about this game is amazing combo of quality and amazing phisics. I realy like 
 idea off put Alyx. She's very helpfull, especialy to the gameplay, she makes it more... tense. 
 Great idea is showing her feelings, fear etc. About phisics- G R E A T! The best is you have to 
 use them to make your way farther. I mean like put box under pipies to make them stable and let 
 you jump to the create. Cool. Gravity Gun has been called (not only by me) best weapoon ever, it's 
 realy great idea to use it, not like other FPS, knife when you out of ammo, you just pick some 
 crate or pipe and shoot it:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamespotvic
Rating: 9.8
Date: Aug 25, 2006 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - 10 Holy moley, where did I begin? Everything Valve did in the last game has been pumped 
 up to 11. There's the same basic principle: shoot Combine until they die. But aside from that, 
 the action is just incredible, it comes at you with full force. You're with Alyx, who fights along 
 side with you the whole game, and she kicks some major butt. I could go on, but there's so much 
 to talk about.
  
  Graphics - 10
  
  Valve still takes full advantage of the Source Engine. The environments look great, and still feels 
 natural like in the last game. The textures still look great, and are put together well. And the 
 models look great as well.
  
  Sound - 10
  
  The sound is amazing. The ambient sounds are still as awesome as the last game. I mainly love the 
 Sound FX of the Zombine. But let's talk about the music. THE MUSIC IS JUST SO BADA**. I mean, wow. 
 The music has some great rock elements witch really pump up your adrenaline, and makes you want 
 to kick some butt. And the voice acting is still superb, Especially Alyx.
  
  Value - 9
  
  Now, I had to give value a nine, mosty because I had most of the muti-player games on my Steam 
 account. But really, who would wanna buy it just for the multi-player?
  
  Reviewer's Tilt - 10
  
  Overall, if you want to know what happened from the last game, and 
 are looking for a great game for 20 bucks, look no further. I highly recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kmott
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2006 8:13 am PT
Review:  I'm a very young player of video games (11 to be exact) and when I heard about the sequel to my favorite 
 game I had to play it. It's cheap so it was a no-brainer for $20.00 it was a steal. You can't go 
 wrong. The graphics are absolutely top notch with a great video card or a bad one. The sound in the 
 game actually helps you (say you hear a headcrab lurking around that corner.) If there is a down 
 side to this game it is that there are no new weapons. It is short because it is about 5 hours. 
 But if you're good as me you'll take about 10 hrs. mostly cause of the hard parts. It is also good 
 that you get a partner (alyx vance) she can take of herself and you. It is very helpful.
  Buy this game it is well more than worth it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mydasx
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 21, 2006 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Halflife2 episode 1 was a great extension to an already sweet package. Valve has raised the bar 
 a bit higher, and gave us a bunch more halflife goodness. No where did i feel like i was on a track 
 or simply shooting my way out of a paper bag. The envirnoment was emmersive, and complex. They 
 mixed it up w/ lots of the weapons, only allowing for some here and there, and the full arsenal 
 in others. I had a lot of fun playing the expansion, and am eagerly awaiting the next one. All 
 shooter fans should pick up this game. Steam makes it really easy, and quick. Compared to the sims 
 addons which give you gimmicy stuff that should have been there to begin with, this one actually 
 takes you deeper in the world of Gordon Freeman. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feyre
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  Brief Overview:
  
  Back in 2004 when Half Life 2 scored over 35 GOTY awards, there wasn't really any doubt as to whether 
 or not the series would be continued. But instead of the usual expansion packs or new games, Valve 
 came with what they call "episodes".
  The first instalment of these episodes is an excellent, though short game that is a must have for 
 all fans of the Half Life series, which also features a lot of insight into the Half Life universe.
 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The game exists of two parts, the first in which you solely get to use the super gravity gun and 
 solve increasingly complex puzzles, and a second (longer) part in which you're mainly shooting 
 enemies (along with some minor puzzle solving elements) .
  First of all, the puzzles are pretty fun, you'll usually be working under stress as Alyx defends 
 you when you try to solve the puzzles, but you'll be able to grasp the essence of each puzzle element 
 in a safe environment first.
  That said the initial overpowering feel of the super gravity gun that you had at the end of HL 
 2 is sort of gone, though combat takes a backseat to the puzzle solving in this part of the game.
 
  The second part is arguably better, your super gravity gun goes back to normal and you'll get 
 standard weapons again. In this part of the game Alyx gets to show off some cool new moves, and 
 she dishes out quite some damage. Occasionally you'll be separated from Alyx for boss battles or 
 tricky puzzles in which you have to figure out to get passed certain areas.
  Fortunately there's a lot of combat as well, as well as AI fighting AI, which is always fun to 
 see.
  The combat just looks and feels as superb as it's supposed to, the puzzles are challenging enough. 
 All in all, it's what you'd expect in the follow up of Half Life 2.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are simply amazing, the Source Engine gets a big upgrade, especially the lighting 
 looks excellent, and the game handles darkness even better. Even the famous character models have 
 been upgraded.
  The game has many so called "vistas" which are basically sights that you get to see as a reward 
 of fighting off some enemies. The Citadel which is about to explode looks awesome and ever more 
 impressive than in Half Life 2.
  That said, you can still see it's the Source Engine beneath all the make up, so everything still 
 looks familiar.
  The increased graphics come at a toll though and you'll need a pretty decent machine to run it 
 at higher settings.
  
  Sound:
  
  The voice acting is great, Alyx has a lot of good things to say and stays human at all times, never 
 gets pushy and expresses the right emotions at the right times.
  There are quite a few jokes in the game which break up the pace nicely but it never gets cheesy.
 
  The music is also as great as in the original game and fits the themes excellently, regardless 
 of taste.
  All that said there isn't much improvement in the standard sounds, the guns sound exactly the same 
 and the sounds might get a bit stale after some time.
  
  Value:
  
  Well, the game is short, it took me a little under five hours to complete in one turn, which isn't 
 exactly long for a game that costs 20 dollars (or euros) .
  There is a commentary mode though which gives a lot of insight into the game's design, which is 
 always fun. And there are some long speeches by Dr. Kleiner on the large screens (like those of 
 Mr. Breen only not propaganda) which are fun to listen to.
  No new multiplayer content or new weapons.
  One new type of enemy.
  
  Tilt:
  
  It feels 
 like Half Life 2, there are some new things in it, there are a lot of sights to be seen. Alyx makes 
 some, actually funny, jokes. The game is just plain fun.
  
  Difficulty:
  
  The game's combat is a bit easy in the first part of the game, though the puzzles are challenging 
 enough. There are a few boss battles, though they could have been made a bit more challenging. 
 That said the game should provide enough challenge on normal mode to kill you a few times and gives 
 a real challenge on a harder mode.
  
  Learning Curve:
  
  Well, you have to learn new things over and over again, but you'll learn each new technique in 
 under half an hour.
  
  Time Spent Playing, to Date:
  
  I've played through the game 2 times, the second time in commentary mode, and I've begun playing 
 the game in hard-difficulty.
  
  Classification:
  
  Well, speaks for itself. At least we'll get new challenges with new episodes.
  Episode 2 is due 
 in Q4 of this year.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbrownick
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  First off I alpoligize for the short review, this game is the same as Half-Life 2 so read the full 
 review on that. This is a soild add on to HL2. The AI is better and the action and puzzles are 
 better. This game is so short though! I beat it in 2 days playing it for 3 hours a day. So you 
 will get 4,5 or 6 hours of gameplay out of it. Thank god for the low price. Another dissapointment 
 was that this game only comes in DVD rom version, witch lost salls just for that, but if you are 
 smart you can activate the game over steam without a DVD rom, it comes with a code just enter the 
 code in the "avtivate game" place in your steam and you will have the full game without a DVD rom 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharpshot2002
Rating: 6.1
Date: Aug 20, 2006 6:03 pm PT
Review:  This game had be sitting on the egad of my chair the game play is the same but the story continuas 
 from the game you are to get out of the town as fast as you can with the help of the (forgot her 
 name) girl.
  
  Pushing cars picking up object to push your way though the town pushing car on to hold to stop 
 attacks and working as a team to get the same goal on the way helping others to get out the town 
 as well.
  
  What I didnt like about the game was it was really short and I dont think it is worth the price 
 paid to play it as the game play is good but I want long story lines and dont want to wait to 
 play it as it only took half a day to finish it and we need to wait like 3 to 4 months just for 
 the 2ed one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tkholder
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 20, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  I just finished Episode 1 and I agree it is a good game, but it is pretty much the same as we have 
 all done before in Half Life 2. There is nothing new really offered to the genre in this very short 
 add-on. However, it does offer a few entertaining hours. I like the shorter games and the episode 
 format. Hopefully, Episode 2 will be a little more clever.
  
  The use of a companion was fun for a while, but that too seemed to diminish as the game advanced 
 forward. You did not receive enough weapon options until later in the game (over half way through) . 
 The weapons were the same as in HL2. It would have been nice to have something new there as well. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhotmann
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 17, 2006 6:18 pm PT
Review:  I recently bought Half Life 2 (yes i know its been out for quite a while, but i am cheap and must 
 wait for games to go down in price a bit) and it quickly became one of my favorite games of all 
 time. As soon as i beat it i knew i had to get episode 1 and I'm very glad that i did. Episode 
 1 has all the things that you love from half life 2 (except for the fanboat and buggy) only better! 
 The action sequenses are definitely more intense, the puzzles more challenging, and alyx (too bad 
 she isnt a real person, i would have to take her out to a nice dinner) . Although the game is short, 
 it is a definite must have for any fan of the half life series. I cant wait for episode 2 to come 
 out! (and the extras that come with it look pretty good too) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bercik_99
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 17, 2006 1:17 am PT
Review:  I bought this little thing on first day of it realeased and in same day i completed it with big 
 smile on my mouth. Hm wtf. I want more hours spending playing that gorgeous game with my eyes blocked 
 on monitor. I heard that it will be some sort of episodes so i thought maybe i'll completed it 
 slower than it was replaced on box with game - 4-8 hours - Pfffffff bull - you know what. I start 
 playing at 9.00 p. m. and ended at 11.34 p. m. on normal difficult so its 3,34 hour. Ok now i'll 
 say something about fabule. Everything start when citadel is going to explode and somehow your 
 not going to die. If u haven't play i won't tell how. Next thing was Alex and dog have found you 
 so you're alive. Citadel had opened some portal and core is in danger and you don't have anything 
 too lose. YOU MUST RUN FROM CITY, with alex of course :D In first mission you going some new things 
 that vale gave to their product like Big Sucking Machine :D You'll see what i had in mind. Other 
 new things in HL2: EO are Zombine - its something like head crab in combine soldier and CORE - Oooooooo 
 Yeeeeeeee I'm playing with max options on 800 x 600 and Valve gave to core smaller explosions in 
 it so it looks smaller than 2 moths ago but come back to text so you need to repair core making 
 something and you'll be know what to do. Next will be to run from citadel by train and again new 
 things are like changing those electrical balls to your side. In future your main mission will 
 be to run from city. You'll see again with Barny. He forgot even to shaved and i forgot about flares 
 you need them for light in dark tunnels and even to burn zombies. Half-Life 2: Episode One is nice 
 and fine game but its toooooooo short and It too much cost. I still have hope to see episode two 
 longer than first of trilogy. I heard about forth episode but it will be more like another part 
 of game. Cye all i think my review was for you guys a great help in buying Half-Life 2 with episode 
 One. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sentenced83
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 15, 2006 1:29 pm PT
Review:  well Half life 2 was good but the last levels   were uninteresting .. and when i started playing 
 episode 1 i was frustrated till i got the machine gun, even then the Ai isnt that good and the 
 shooting seems unreal  .. there's some nice touches in the game like when you out the light on 
 her she cover her face and when she makes noises to scare you , that was good , but she cant die! 
 , even if she's in the middle of an explosion ! i mean thats frustrating ,, on the graphical side 
 its amazing even on my humble Pc 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fastson
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 14, 2006 2:13 pm PT
Review:  HL2: Episode One is basically as good as, or even better, what I hoped. Just as I started it and 
 saw the Half-Life 2: Episode One splash screen I thought This is going to be one hell of a ride.... 
 My review is merely written for people whove already finished the game so there are a few spoilers.
 
  
  After the intro, were the G-Man is taken away by what I think is the "Third Power", I stare at 
 some rocks covering my face while hearing some mumbling, then you see this rock being lift off. 
 Behind it is Dog, and I never really felt so happy to see him. He pulls me out of the pile of rocks 
 while I can see the Citadel going in a meltdown. It looks truly magnificent and yet scary at the 
 same time because you don't have one iota if it's going to explode or just simply crash onto you.
 
  After you can see Alyx desperately looking for Gordon in some debris, she tells Dog to throw away 
 what ever he's holding (at this moment I laughed for the first time in the game) but seconds later 
 she notices that it's actually Gordon himself Dog's holding, I can see the face on Alyx that's 
 she's really surprised and relieved. Dog then drop me to the ground and Alyx hugs me, that really 
 caught me by surprise because that's the first time a non-playable character actually hugs the 
 player in first person view. I love you Valve... and Alyx. ;)
  
  Why I decided to write the whole beginning of Episode One is because that's one of the best moments 
 in a game that Ive ever experienced, the strong connection to a character have never really felt 
 that strong in my opinion. The only expectation is Metal Gear Solid 2 (some scenes brought tears 
 to my eyes) , but that's a totally different game and you can't really interact in it like in Episode 
 One.
  
  What I like about Valve in making the Half-Life series is that, exactly like Hide Kojima (creator 
 of Metal Gear Solid) , they give the characters a personality. They aren't just some graphical pixels 
 walking around don't giving a **** what happens around them. That's exactly the opposite with Episode 
 One. The facial expressions on Alyx, her animations, her humor, her love to Dog, Eli and Gordon. 
 It really feels like a real human being, not some unnatural doll.
  Its the same with the other characters found in Episode One, Barney for an example. That beer 
 he owns Gordon, a good ol' friend from the days of Black Mesa, you can really trust him. I liked 
 the moment when he gives Gordon the crowbar he tells him not to lose it again because he's running 
 out of them.
  With characters with this kind of personality really gives the game a natural feeling. You can 
 definitely tell that Valve likes to spend their time with the games they create, they don't want 
 to make a half-assed attempt to make a good game, they spend their time! I don't care if it gets 
 delayed or not, have Valve ever really suffered because of this? No, they can only make the games 
 better. Be glad of what you get, there are very very few developers out there that's so competent 
 like Valve, they listen to their fans and have a really great support to the mod community, that's 
 what I like about Valve.
  And also, I don't really get why people complain about the games length. What did you expect from 
 an episode? 20 hours of gameplay? There's a reason why it's called episodic-content.
  I played it to the third chapter, took a 3 hour break eating and watching television. And then 
 came back and completed it with a satisfied grin on my face. It took me about 5 to 6 hours to complete 
 it, and if you then count the 3 hour break, that's 9 hours.
  
  Graphically, Episode One is the best-looking PC game I've played in years. The high dynamic range 
 (HDR) lightning make the game look truly fantastic. The lightning cone (or what you should call 
 it) around Alyx looks so good that I can almost touch her.
  I played it in 1280x1024 on a TFT-screen, with everything maxed, 2x AA and 4x AF. It ran really 
 great only with a few hiccups occasionally, but it never dragged me out from the experience thankfully.
 
  Some textures seemed to have gone an overhaul, although I've always liked Half-Life 2's textures 
 so I don't really mind it.
  The facial expressions on the characters in the game are still wonderful, perhaps even better. 
 The same goes for the animations.
  While outside the city, looking at the Citadel, you can see these small bits, which looks like 
 snowflakes, flying from the sky (ashes I guess) . This definitely gave a sense of that the city 
 is soon to get erased from the map and you got to get out from it as fast as possible.
  I haven't really got much to complain about on the graphics, except that there were moments that 
 Alyx would clip through certain objects, sometimes her hand were inside her arm, but it's nothing 
 you notice so easily.
  
  The AI on Alyx is definitely good. I could only see one bit of faulty AI on her side, that was 
 after a Zombine got killed it dropped its grenade, Alyx screamed to take cover but instead she 
 ran over to the grenade and stood there until it exploded, she didn't die thankfully. People say 
 that they saw Alyx getting stuck in doorways, staring at an empty wall and not moving. Those did 
 not happen to me.
  Alyx's humor are good too, there were moments she said some funny things, like about the Zombine 
 when you first see it lying on the ground. Another one are when you turn off your flashlight, Alyx 
 makes herself sound like a zombie to make you scared. When you then turn around she says she's 
 only fooling around with you. Great moment.
  If she gets too close to a zombie, she'll kick it out of oblivion.
  While I also prefer making 
 my journey alone, it did work very well with Alyx on my side. She never got in my way and had no 
 trouble protecting me.
  The AI on citizens/rebels are pretty much the same, not that they are bad but compared to Alyx 
 they are sometimes quite... stupid.
  
  One the gameplay side, there are a few new things thrown in. One is if you are in a pitch black 
 room, turn on your flashlight and turn it onto a enemy, Alyx will shoot at it while you keep your 
 light on it. This way, Alyx can kill enemies if you're running low on ammunition. She's really 
 good at killing things too so that's a big plus, one of those things that you hardly see in games 
 nowadays.
  Alyx can also reprogram the Rollermines to help you out. Take out the gravity-gun, pick up the 
 Rollermine and turn it towards Alyx, she'll give it a jolt and then it's all done. Rollermines 
 are invincible to gunfire but can be destroyed when it come in contact with water.
  There are also some moments were the Rollermine, when on your side, turn red and seconds after 
 explode. I don't why this happens.
  
  While I didn't like playing the chapter Our Benefactors in Half-Life 2, it was much better thought 
 out in Episode One. Let me explain, in Half-Life 2 there were pretty much only slaughter most of 
 the time while you were inside the Citadel. Wave after wave of Combines trying to kill you. That's 
 not fun in one bit in my opinion.
  But in Episode One, they toned down the slaughter and opened up more puzzles instead. My favorite 
 bits are actually in the Citadel, one is when you battle through the reactor core. The HDR really 
 worked well in this part too.
  While it didn't really answer some of the questions Ive had since the play through of Half-Life 
 2, and also brought more question instead, it felt pretty good.
  The ending was better than Half-Life 2's, pretty similar to F. E. A. R.'s. The pods flying out from 
 the Citadel looked like the pod were the Advisor was inside at the beginning of the game. But could 
 it really have been so many Advisors inside the Citadel? I doubt it.
  
  The commentary-system, which is included in the game, is very interesting and works absolutely 
 fine. I never knew it could be so interesting listening to what the developers say.
  I'll explain how the commentary-system works. While its on, youre invincible to enemy fire. In 
 the game, you see these floating speech bubbles scattered about. Pointing at one, while pressing 
 the USE-key the node will start to speak. If you wish to stop the node just press the USE-key again. 
 Thats it.
  
  I have three complaints I would like to share though.
  
  First, I'm pretty disappointed with the fact that we never saw what happened to Dr. Wallace Breen. 
 Did he really die at the end of Half-Life 2? I have my doubts, he's a far too interesting character 
 just to kill of like that. I really hope to see him in the future episodes as he is one my favorite 
 characters in the Half-Life series. He's got one of the best dialogs I've heard in a game, so killing 
 him off would just be sad.
  Second, only one sighting of the G-Man, one simple dialog from him and that's it. One of the reasons 
 I looked forward to playing the game was to see the G-Man. I hope to see him, or at least hear 
 him in Episode Two.
  Thirdly, last and main complaint, is the bit near the end of the game in the chapter Exit 17. 
 You were ordered to bring groups of citizens to a train. It was okay until the point were I noticed 
 that it felt like a filler, one thing many games suffer from. Back and forth, one more time and 
 yet again. It would have been much better if they cut down it from 5 groups to 2, or perhaps Alyx 
 could have had led another group. This didn't really feel like Half-Life at all. The only good 
 thing that rises up the aspect about it is the fact that the scene changes from time to time, but 
 it didn't really help the feeling of dullness. 
  
  So, to sum it all up.
  
  Graphics: 9/10 - A very strong nine here, HDR combined with awesome animations, great atmosphere 
 and level-design makes it one of the most beautiful games I've played on the PC. Characters occasionally 
 clipping through objects lowers the score a bit.
  
  Sound: 10/10 - Half-Life 2's and Episode One's strongest point in my opinion. The new sounds for 
 the Zombines are truly fantastic. Gunfire from a distance is still one of the best I've heard. 
 And don't start me on the music.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10 - The new gameplay aspects are done well and works fine.
  
  Final Score: 9.3/10 
 - At the end, I had an extremely fun time playing Episode One. The commentary-system is a big plus.
 
  
  Episode Two, I must say, looks very interesting. Not only because of the new Combine walker but 
 also because it's in a entirely different setting not seen in any of the Half-Life games until 
 now, it has only been around Black Mesa and City 17 so far, so I'm very curios to see more of it 
 in the future. I also hope to see more of the Xen creatures now that we've made it out in the wilderness, 
 especially Gargantua. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2FacedJanus
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 19, 2006 4:39 am PT
Review:  Instead of having fans waiting years for a sequel, developer Valve decided to split it up in three 
 episodes that would be released with far less time in between. As the name implies this is the 
 first of the three episodes. And while it may be short, it offers an experience thats equal to 
 the best moments found in Half-Life 2, if not better. You start at the point where Half-Life 2 
 left off. And after a small cut-scene they give you very little answers, and leave you with far 
 more questions. However, they do give an answer on how you survived the explosion at the end of 
 Half-Life 2. After the cut-scene you wake up amidst the rubble near the citadel in City 17. The 
 citadel is about to explode and wipe out the entire city. A giant robot simply named Dog picks 
 you up, and the adventure continues.
  
  Right off the bat you have Alyx alongside of you as a companion. But, apart from only serving as 
 an extra gun, she plays a big part in the story, as well as making you laugh through jokes and 
 comments. The developers did a good job in making you feel emotionally attached to her throughout 
 the game. By using both realistic facial animations, as well as body language, gamers can read 
 her emotions like never before in a game. This does not go just for Alyx though, but for all characters 
 you meet. The original voice-cast makes a triumphant return in this sequel, and like before they 
 do their part to bring their respective characters to live. Although Alyx takes up the bulk of 
 npc interaction, you cannot miss the sharply written dialogue and quality voice-acting throughout 
 the entire game. Episode One delivers a very action-packed experience, even more so than its predecessor. 
 You will find yourself desperately trying to fight off zombies in complete darkness while waiting 
 for an elevator to come down, as well as riding on a train until the train crashes and stalkers 
 start screaming horribly at you. In many battles you will do both puzzle solving and shooting, 
 giving you an experience never seen before. A new enemy has also been added to the game. It is 
 the Zombine, a combine soldier turned into a zombie. Apart from being a bit stronger than its zombie-relatives, 
 you also see this one committing a kamikaze act when it holds a grenade while running towards you. 
 You will often unload entire clips on these guys before firing at anything else. Additionally you 
 will get a glimpse of a new opponent, but you will not encounter it in this episode.
  
  The game is easier than Half-Life 2, mostly because in the beginning of the game your gravity gun, 
 that let's you pick up and throw away objects, will get enhanced like at the end of Half-Life 2, 
 turning enemies into no more than objects blocking your path. Another reason is that there seem 
 to be too little smart enemies compared to the amount of zombies. At one point Episode One starts 
 to feel a bit repetitive when you have to escort civilians to a train four times in a row through 
 the same area, while adding too little challenge each time you go back and forth. But that does 
 not really make that scene less exciting because the presentation is excellent. The source engine 
 received some graphical enhancements as well. The most prominent would be the High Dynamic Range 
 lighting. This effect, if your video-card supports it, makes every area you travel through look 
 better, and be more atmospheric. Some of the textures have also been improved, especially on the 
 more prominent characters such as Alyx, Barney Calhoun and Dr. Kleiner. Needless to say, because 
 of these enhancements the game looks very good.
  
  The biggest drawback is that this game is short, you will complete it in four to seven hours, and 
 even though it comes with Half-Life 2: Deathmatch, you most likely already have that if you own 
 Half-Life 2. Despite its lenght, it is consistently exciting. If you liked Half-Life 2 or are an 
 avid first-person shooter fan, than you really owe it to yourself to go get this game. And if you 
 thought Half-Life 2 was a little too boring for you, you might also want to give it a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Whitsel
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 13, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Cheap, Long Enough & Great New SP Campaign Makes For A Good Game! I guess the SP being "long" to 
 me was basicly because I was expecting this game to be real short based on reviews. I liked HL2 
 but this game is deffinently better. The more intense urban firefights & constant teamplay with 
 the AI team member is great. Though she seems to leave when the things get real tough in the story, 
 she eventually comes back after a few minutes & fights by your side again, lol. I deffinently liked 
 this game and will continue to follow the episodic trilogy that Half-Life will now go along with. 
 BTW: all the fighting parts of HL2 are probobly equivalent in numbers & length to this game, just 
 compiled into a shorter story. Keep it up Valve! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2006 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Many were skeptical about Valve  creators of Half-Life 2 (score: 9/10)  to release the next chapter 
 in the saga of series protagonist Gordon Freeman not through an expansion pack or full-blown sequel, 
 but instead through three small chunks, called Episodes. Announcing each chapter to weigh in 
 at twenty dollars and about five or six hours of gameplay, these episodes provide timely additions 
 to the Half-Life 2 universe. Thankfully, the system turned out to work wonders  Half-Life 2: Episode 
 One is a thoroughly entertaining, exceptionally polished experience, eliminating nearly all flaws 
 from the original product while providing a fresh and unique game in its own right.
  
  You dont technically need to own Half-Life 2 to play Episode One  when you buy the game (either 
 online through the Steam service or via a boxed retail copy) , all the necessary files are there 
 and ready to roll  but you wont have a clue as to whats going on if youve never played the 
 original game. Episode One picks up immediately after the original game ends, with you and Alyx 
 frozen in time during the massive explosion of the Citadel. After a pretty big stretch to save 
 the both of you, Gordon awakens outside, and ready to escape from the dreaded City 17.
  
  Luckily, youll have a helping hand with you the entire time  Alyx is like your shadow in Episode 
 One. She does a splendid job of keeping pace with you, jumping over railings and otherwise manipulating 
 her environment without incident. Shes also quite handy with a gun, and shell always have your 
 back as you tangle with the Combine and the undead (as well as a new enemy who mixes the two, a 
 Zombine soldier, wholl rush you and attempt to explode himself with a grenade) .
  
  Alyxs companionship (and oft-flirtatious nature) gives an excellent team dynamic to Half-Life, 
 but perhaps more enticing is the ability for the games developers to really add some white-knuckle 
 set pieces into the game. In fact, theres no filler here whatsoever  every sequence in Episode 
 One is a set piece of some kind. There are also no clunky vehicle sequences.
  
  One of the games best sequences has Gordon and Alyx trapped underground, in near-complete darkness. 
 Only Alyx has any real weapons, so youll need to do flashlight duty for her, as she cant shoot 
 anything you arent illuminating. Its a tense, spooky, and wickedly fun scenario. The next sequence 
 has you scrambling to block off antlion dens while Alyx lays down some covering fire. Its this 
 duality dynamic that makes Episode One a more complex game than the original. The Combine soldiers 
 also seem a little brighter when it comes to taking cover. Overall, Episode One is a more challenging 
 game than its source material, though anyone familiar with shooters shouldnt have much trouble 
 getting through this one.
  
  Visually, Episode One looks more or less identical to the original, which is to be expected, of 
 course. However, some small tweaks here and there add up to make a markedly better-looking game. 
 Some of the games characters  most notably Alyx and Dog, her pet robot  now sport some sharper 
 texture work. Among little changes like that, the big new thing here is High Dynamic Range lighting 
 (which requires DirectX 9.0c and updated drivers) , which incorporates how your eyes behave to changes 
 in light; step out into a fully lighten room from complete darkness, and the room will be completely 
 aglow, and it will take a few seconds for your eyes to adjust and the lighting to return to normal. 
 Its a noticeable and interesting change that improves the already-impressive visual quality. The 
 audio remains as awe-inspiring as always, with its booming mix that effortlessly strikes a balance 
 between weapon, enemy, and environmental sound effects.
  
  The only real problem with Episode One is that its over so quickly. Valve was correct in estimating 
 about five hours of gameplay, and since the vast majority of players will have already completed 
 Half-Life 2 and incurred the experience that goes with it, that number isnt too likely to vary. 
 However, regardless of length, youd be hard-pressed to find a game that entertains as consistently 
 as Episode One does. In fact, its even better than the core game. Just be prepared to wait patiently 
 a couple of months for Episode Two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballerking
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2006 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Good game just like whole series so far, even though it's short game is now even more prettier 
 with HDR at max settinsg you can't go wrong.
  
  The controls are about the same, so everyone should be easy to control of.
  
  The diffulty 
 is also about the same as half-life 2 but valve made a lil bit update to make it easier now for 
 some reason by adding more shotgun ammo and less enemies so the game is even more easy now but 
 still fun.
  
  The story takes place right after half-life 2 so that's a good thing, but it also makes you wonder 
 even more once you beat it.
  
  Overall game is short and very fun, same controls, same old charaters, weapons, enemies and all defiantly 
 pick it up if you're a fan of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xfire229
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 12, 2006 2:39 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2: Episode 1 is the first in a chain of Half-Life 2 episodes, and when it came it was 
 Half-Life it was great but when you finish the game you think is that it. Your left with no questions 
 answered.
  
  The Gameplay is pretty much the same as Half-Life 2, although this time Alyx the attractive non 
 player character is with every step of the game, she does come in handy and doesn't get in the 
 way, but you feel you could have done it without her as she only uses a pathetic pistol while you 
 blasting people with shotguns. 
  
  The Graphics are stunning using Lost Coast HDR to make the lighting stunning those it takes alot 
 of GPU power to get it working properly, and even then you may have a stuttery frame rate but turn 
 it off and it is still amazing, the textures are once again amazing. Valve made the same amount 
 of muscles in a face for the characters to make them look more realistic, and it worked very well.
 
  
  The sound is good, it can do up to 7.1 and the groan of a Zombie sounds very relistic, and when 
 a grenade explodes next to you a high pitched ringing now is heard.
  
  The game is very short but it is only a chapter and the next chapter is coming quicker than a whole 
 new game, so Valve are feeding up small portions quickly. A hardcore player could complete this 
 in about 6-8 Hours, while more laid back players around 8-12 Hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ig123
Rating: 7.3
Date: Aug 12, 2006 1:04 am PT
Review:  HL2 E1 is available to buy on Steam for 20 bucks, and its also available in the stores, for that 
 price. Keep in mind: 20bucks.
  
  The good:
  
  Great idea by Valve to give us a teammate. Alyx is going to be with us the whole game. She has 
 unlimited ammo and life, which is great. She is also tells joke sometimes, flirts with Gordon, 
 etc. Great idea.
  
  The graphics are improved, better than HL2. Valve added HDR, higher resolution textures. The game 
 runs at a steady 60fps on my 7800GT, A64 3200, with all settings maxed out (4xAA,16xAF) . Good eye 
 candy.
  
  Oh, and one more thing. The price. 
  
  The bad:
  
  HL2's story.. well I think it's similiar to the TV show : LOST. No, the story is totally different, 
 but the pacing, well, its' the same. The only difference is, for 7 months out of 12, we get a LOST 
 episode (almost) every week. While we get a HL game once in 6 years, and an episode - according 
 to valve - once every year.
  
  The story didn't advance much in this episode... 
  
  also, the level design is pathetic. The first level was alright, we didn't have to use much firepower. 
 But it got really repetative after a while ; you grab one of the energy balls, throw it into something 
 mechanical, it starts working, you move forward. The 2nd level is even crappier. Doom3-ish, you 
 just go ahea din the dark, shoot, kill, shoot, kill... bah.
  
  The 3rd level (City17) , is, although great.
  
  Now, for 20bucks, you get a game with3-4 hours 
 worthy gameplay. 20bucks, yeah, But come on. A game with no replay value, and only 4 hours? Thats 
 very bad.
  
  Overally i'm not too impressed. Gabe Newell also stated that it's not really HL2 E1 but HL3 E1. 
 And if this is really Hl3, then im VERY disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: opulous
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 12, 2006 7:59 am PT
Review:  I have been playing Half-Life games for many years now, I have the very first game on disk. When 
 I heard of Half-Life 2, I was overjoyed. It was a great game. I became addicted to it because of 
 the guns, action, airboats and Alyx's heartwarming face, (actually, it's cheesy more than heartwarming) . 
 Finally, I had killed Dr. Breen and I was shocked to see that the G-man took me away and left Alyx 
 behind and in short, I thought, 'THATS NOT CRICKET!'. Plus, he shoved me into a train which was 
 clostrophbic and had no lighting. Jerk. It was a brillant surprise to me when I heard that they 
 were making a new Half-Life into a episodic series, which means no more long waits. When Episode 
 1 came out, I rushed down and got it. It was not a dissapontment. But, there was some minor irritating 
 problems, but overall, it's a great expansion.
  
  So, let's begin with the good.
  Excellent graphics, like Half-Life 2, plus added detail in people's expressions. 
  Brilliant 
 gameplay, chucking a grenade into that Combine sniper's position and then seeing him blown out 
 of it is a classic. 
  Great NPCs. Barney and Alyx really are likeable, (and no, I don't mean they are likeable simply 
 because Barney has a name the same as a children's dinosaur friend and because Alyx has a big arse) . 
 As for the rebels? Well, they arn't very exciting to talk about. 
  Good AI. But it's mostly in Alyx's case, due to her having the ability to tell you where dangers 
 are coming from and asking you, 'Did you eat garlic at anytime today?' Ok, that last one was not 
 very true. Good idea though. As for the rebels? Do not even ask about their 'AI' or else you are 
 as dumb as them and that is saying something.
  
  Dum, dum, dum!! The bad.
  Bad Rebel AI. You have to notice they have a brain defect when they run into that squad of Combine 
 soldiers or when they stare at a grenade for 5 seconds then realise their eyeballs have just fallen 
 out of their sockets.
  Gordan's Silence. I still think it's irritating the way Gordan cannot speak. When Alyx says, in 
 a very romantic manner, 'And... hurry back' ,when Gordan is leaving in the elevator to go to the 
 core, Gordan stays silent. Any other swash-buckiling action hero would say, 'I will. Bet on it.', 
 but instead Gordan glares at her like a deactivated robot. If I was her, I would be pissed off 
 by that. But, really let's face facts- would you really want to fight with, fall in love with or 
 make friends with a man who has invisible duct tape around his mouth?!
  Gordan and Alyx's Tension. It really pisses me off the way Gordan, (actually, maybe not Gordan. 
 To be honest I do not think he feels anything) and Alyx keep their romantic feelings back. There 
 are some perfectly good scenes for Gordan and Alyx to hug or kiss in. WHY THE HELL DOES SHE KEEP 
 IT FROM HIM!! Come on Alyx. Give in. But if I was her I would not fall for Gordan. He doesn't talk 
 and he is rather ugly compared to her.
  Very Short. This is very short. Lasts only about 6 hours of gametime. I got it done in one morning. 
 HA HA!!
  
  Overall, this is a very worthy sequel to Half-Life 2, but for the love of God, Valve, PLEASE GIVE 
 GORDAN A VOICE!! Oh, and tell Alyx, if she is going to go with Gordan then do it soon. Geesh...
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: semplew
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 9, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  I am one of these people who usually buy games only if there computers will run them on full specs; 
 and as my computer is only a Geforce 6200 GS I dont usually buy new hardware demanding games but 
 I just had to get this because after completing Half Life 2 on XBOX I needed to play more!. This 
 game is not too long I have heard but the game play makes up for that and it really is fun. Also 
 there may not be any new additional multiplayer modes but as I had Half Life 2 on XBOX I did not 
 have any multiplayer modes anyway so I am happy to play them now on Episode 1. The graphics are 
 awesome even though I cannot see the High Dynamic range and I have Anti Analysing off it still 
 looks brilliant and the shadows, lighting and textures still look much better than on Half Life 
 2 on XBOX. The sound is superb and all the gunfire and bleeping noises etc are brilliant. Also 
 I love the voice acting of Alyx and the DR and stuff. So this game is brilliant if you are a fan 
 of the Half Life series and it really does bring more of the great Half Life 2 gameplay back even 
 though it isnt as good because the world doesnt seem as big its because its only the first in three 
 episodes. One last thing to say is if you dont like the idea of playing without HDL and anti analysing 
 and have an XBOX 360 or are planning on getting a PS3 wait for the huge pack which is released 
 at the end of the year which includes Half Life 2 in an updated engine, Episode 1 and the next 
 of three episodes; Episode 2, Portal a cool single player game that you should check out and Team 
 Fortress 2 the new sequel to the great multiplayer game Team Fortress which you also should check 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RacinJason
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 7, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2: Episode One is the first of three updates to the story of Half-Life 2. It is short, 
 I think it took me only 5 or 6 hours, but it was a blast.
  
  Episode One takes place right after the end of Half-Life 2. You and Alex have survied the events 
 that took place at the end of Half-Life 2 and now you need to escape City 17. Alex fights along 
 your side now in Episode One and she is quite capable of holding her own. In fact I usually let 
 her kill most of the enemys so I could save my ammo. 
  
  Episode One takes place mostly in buildings and small urban enviroments. The only bad thing about 
 this is that some of the levels will look a little familar. The small outdoor enviroments, the 
 citadel, and the hospital looks like they are just tweeked levels out of the original Half-Life 
 2. The layout of the levels seems better and I thought they were a little more enjoyable to play 
 through. There are also no updates to the weapons so the game does feel a little to familar in 
 those areas. But what did get updated was the puzzle solving elements. While the shooting and all 
 that stuff is great the puzzles are what I enjoyed the most in playing Episode One. I think they 
 are quite better then the puzzles in Half-Life 2. That is probably why I enjoyed Episode One more 
 then Half-Life 2.
  
  If you enjoyed Half-Life 2 then it's worth your time to check out Episode One. While it may be 
 on the short side it's alot of fun, it's budget priced and there are going to be two more Episodes 
 to enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wild_Card
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 7, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Ok first let me say that i LOVED HL2. it was IMHO the greatst FPS game i have played bar none and 
 one of the absulute top games iv played period. see my review of it if you like.
  Hl2 Epi1 is ..... well more of the same realy wich is a very good thing. The story follows your 
 escape from city17. The pasing of the story is well laid out but i found it to be a little to heavy 
 on the action side. One of the things i realy liked about HL2 was the feeling of lonleness and 
 the calmn befor the storm it always gave me. Epi 1 is missing that completly. it is one fight after 
 another wich is what most people like. 
  Epi 1 of course use's the same great engine as HL2 and runs very smothly while still looking great 
 wich is more than i can say about some games these days "call of juarez demo" springs to mind. 
 i encounterd no crash's ect in fact no bugs what so ever. the loading times seems to have improved 
 a bit from HL2.
  One of the things i didnt care for is the weapons. There the same old from HL2 and IMHO thay are 
 not up to the level of the rest of this game. with the eception of the gravity gun of course :) 
 . It would have been nice to see some of the weapons such as the cross bow droped in favor of something 
 new and freash. even a sniper rifle would have been a better choice IMO. 
  The one thing that realy was disapointing is the play time. This has been harped on by just about 
 every one and ill add to the pile. i realy took my time playing threw the game but was still very 
 dispointed with how fast it was over. was the game worth 20 bucks. if you realy loved HL2 and are 
 a big fan then yes. if you played threw HL2 and thought it was a good game then never touched it 
 again then id say wait for Epi1's price to drop. IMHO i exp closer to 10 hours of gameplay at a 
 resonable pace for 20$. those green pieces of paper dont grow on trees for people who have to work 
 for it. I will not call it a rip off because it was a great time but the in and out feeling left 
 a bad tast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jlr2k8
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 5, 2006 11:14 pm PT
Review:  The original Half-life 2 ended with a very confusing twist. However, this expanision wrapped up 
 the long journey which previously took place. In Half-life 2, the mission was to simply escape 
 a totalitarian-governed city, polluted with forces that were searching for you. In the expansion, 
 the ideology was to seal off the doors of a long-lived escape mission, and conclusively leave on 
 a one-way train to freedom. Well, at the end of the expansion, this freedom bound train was short-lived 
 by an abruptive explosion which reached their train car. (To be continued....)
  
  The redesigned source engine made the graphics outstanding. The precise detail of each object and 
 AI made the scenery seem very realistic.
  
  Not only were the graphics rennovated, but the sound effects were spectacular. Each environmental 
 factor utilized a better sound quality to make the gameplay more realistic.
  
  In terms of the value, I believe that this game should've been cheaper, simply because it was much 
 shorter than Half-Life 2 (well.... it is only an expansion) .
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bell_103
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 5, 2006 5:29 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2: Episode 1 is the first in 3 episodic games from Valve. The story continues straight 
 away after the end of HL 2, having blown up the Dr. Breen's Combine teleportation core, but creating 
 vast consequences of your actions. The game then takes you through 5 chapters with you escaping 
 out of City 17 alongside the, as always, lovely Alyx Vance, as well as meeting a few of your old 
 friends along the way. 
  
  Built on the HL 2 engine, Ep.1 may sound like it could become rather competitive, but new enemies 
 and features, including HDR lighting and fantastic AI make the experience something every HL fan 
 needs to have. The AI is a big factor of Ep 1 as you spend almost every second of the game fighting 
 with Alyx, but luckily, Valve has realised this and spent a lot of time making sure Alyx is a huge 
 asset to you on the battlefield, protecting you while you solve puzzles. 
  
  All in all Ep 1 has subsantially improved the HL gameplay to a new high as well as amazing graphics. 
 The only bad thing about Ep 1 people would say is its length, but nobody was expecting Ep 1 to 
 be very long as it is episodice content. This means over the 3 episodes you have spent 30 on around 
 15 hours gameplay in 1 and a half years. Without this episodic content, players would have to wait 
 a number of years for around 18 hours gameplay so not only is the value of Ep 1 not too bad (the 
 lack of multiplayer content is however disappointing) players can report back to Valve about what 
 they liked and didn't like, letting them recieve an even better gameplay experience in Ep 2.
  
  As I mentioned before, Ep 1 unfortunately has no extra multiplayer content, which is a shame, 
 but luckily the upcoming Ep 2 ( December 30th) will give players not only Hl2 Ep2 but also Ep 1, 
 Hl 2, Team Fortress 2 and Portals for only 10 (not confirmed) will certainly leave fans drooling 
 over the railers and teasers. New players to the HL universe however should wait for Ep 2 so they 
 can get the previous games as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halomaster1211
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 4, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  What has now come to be a household name for PC gamers, the Half-Life series never ceases to amaze. 
 The original Half-Life, released in 1998, was an astounding achievement, and was hailed as quite 
 possibly the best first person shooter of all time. Years later the sequel accomplished the same 
 thing as its predecessor. Half-Life 2 was another brilliant achievement that revitalized a somewhat 
 tired genre. Half-Life 2 provided even more depth to first person shooters, more depth than anyone 
 could have ever imagined before that point. Every first person shooter released before Half-Life 
 2, no matter how good, simply cannot compare to the outstanding quality of first person shooter 
 that is Half-Life 2. An intriguing storyline, which appears to take place in a modern setting, 
 was intricately woven with sci-fi alien invasion elements to create on of the most bizarre, interesting 
 and entertaining storylines with some of the most life like characters ever seen in a video game. 
 In fact the characters in Half-Life 2 were so good they could actually rival that of some of the 
 best actors in Hollywood movies.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode One, previously subtitled as Aftermath rather than Episode One, is all of 
 this and more. Episode One breathes new life into Half-Life 2 keeping it fresher than ever. Episode 
 One manages to break away from becoming a typical add-on, with similar gaming experiences which 
 would make it rather lack-lustre in comparison to its original counterpart. Although, rather than 
 a simply expansion, Episode One feels as if it is in fact truly the missing conclusion of Half-Life 
 2. As anyone who has played through Half-Life 2 is aware of the brief cliff hanger ending which 
 explains literally absolutely nothing other than the fact that you are most likely going to have 
 to wait an unknown amount of time until more will be revealed. As with the first Half-Life, Half-Life 
 2 ended with Gordon Freeman face to face with the mysterious G-Man, who abruptly halts Gordon in 
 his footsteps, and places him into stasis once again.
  
  As anyone would expect, Episode One begins with the final scene of Half-Life 2, where Gordon and 
 his young female sidekick Alyx Vance, are caught up in the explosion of the Combine citadels transportation 
 device. The G-Man places Gordon into stasis, however just prior to this in Episode One, Gordon 
 witnesses Alyx Vance being transported away by the Vortigaunts, who will most likely play a much 
 larger role in future instalments of the franchise. Once the G-Man returns to speak with Gordon, 
 the Vortigaunts decide that it is time for Gordon to be a free-man. Like Alyx, Gordon is transported 
 away from stasis, and is later found buried under a pile of rubble by Alyxs wonderful sidekick, 
 Dog, the large robot, built to protect Alyx when she was young.
  
  Episode One finally lets you take control of Gordon, where you learn that the Combine citadel is 
 on full alert after the explosion of the portal. Cut-off from their home world, the Combine are 
 in a frenzy trying to send some sort of message to their home world, before they are cut-off for 
 good. Gordon and Alyx head off to try and slow down the explosion of the City 17 Combine citadel. 
 This is apparently the only way the Combine can send a message to their home world, in other words, 
 they need help. Once Gordon and Alyx succeed in slowing down the explosion of the core, which involves 
 many intricate gravity gun puzzles, the story takes you on a journey through the vast underground 
 of City 17, which contains very interesting pitch black moments. You are required to shine your 
 flash light on enemies to allow Alyx to take them out. You are also free to blast their noggins 
 off with your shotgun as well. However seeing as Alyx has infinite ammo, it would be a much wiser 
 choice to let her take care of the majority of the zombies.
  
  It is also in this section of the game where Episode One introduces the only new enemy found in 
 the game, the Combine zombie. For those of you who were wondering where they were in the first 
 game, they are here now and they can pose quite the challenge. The Combine zombies add an entirely 
 new element to zombie fighting, as they prefer to rapidly charge at you in a similar fashion to 
 the fast zombies, which are also present in large numbers. The only different is that these suckers 
 can take loads more punishment than their other zombie friends, and like to occasionally charge 
 at you with a live grenade. Thankfully these can be flung away with a flick of the gravity gun.
 
  
  Anyone familiar with the original Half-Life game will get a nice sense of nostalgia from certain 
 areas of the underground portion of Episode One. There are several puzzles which involve a return 
 of the amazing vent crawling skills of Gordon Freeman, which were noticeably absent from Half-Life 
 2, for the most part. The vent crawling is usually combined with the task of finding a circuit 
 panel to open a locked door, which would allow Gordon and Alyx passage to the next area.
  
  Finally once you emerge from the underground Episode One concludes with a very long and interesting 
 surface battle throughout City 17. City 17 is really the only area besides the interior of the 
 Combine citadel at the beginning, where Episode One takes place. So dont expect any vehicle sequences 
 exploring the vast outdoors. Episode One is a panic, and a rush to escape City 17, because the 
 clock is ticking. As with no new vehicle sequences, dont be expecting to see any new weapons this 
 time around either. Due to the fact that Episode One takes place entirely throughout City 17, adding 
 new weapons to the game wouldnt entirely make sense, and would ultimately be unnecessary as all 
 your familiar weapons just barely manage to squeeze into the entirely of the game in the first 
 place. All the weapons of Half-Life 2 are spread throughout a minimum of fourteen hours. Episode 
 One just barely manages to condense all of these weapons into a four to six hour experience. It 
 would have been easy to have all of them return, plus more, but they all wouldnt be entirely useful. 
 Episode One reintroduces all of the weapons from Half-Life 2 in situations where they are useful 
 and needed. Dont be expecting to get the sub-machine gun while fighting zombies, and just to make 
 things clear, dont be expecting to get anything other than the gravity gun until at least a good 
 forty minutes into the game.
  
  Like its predecessor, Episode One manages to incorporate many different styles of gaming into one 
 solid experience. The single player co-op with Alyx itself makes the entire game worth it, but 
 the way that the entire game comes together as a whole is simply outstanding. In many regards Episode 
 One is vastly superior to Half-Life 2 in the sense of its length, and what it offers. It is hard 
 to judge Episode One as an individual game because of the fact that it feels like it was this super 
 awesome conclusion to Half-Life 2 that just wasnt ready in time for the games release. That being 
 said, Episode One is an outstanding game that clearly concludes the City 17 saga of the Half-Life 
 universe. The ending of the game opens up many possibilities for everything people want in a future 
 expansion or sequel. New enemies and new weapons just werent really possible in Episode One considering 
 where the game was taking place. However, despite the fact that it feels like Half-Life 2s missing 
 end-game conclusion, what you get is simply amazing in itself. For the most part the gameplay is 
 vastly superior to that of Half-Life 2, due to the fact that so much of it revolves around you 
 co-operating with another AI character in order to achieve your goals.
  
  What makes playing a single player co-op game like Episode One so fascinating, is that yet again 
 it contains some of the best voice acting ever to be in a video game. Episode One features the 
 return of many familiar characters who are all voiced by their original voice actors. The music 
 in Episode One is also nothing short of amazing. While the music is absent for much of the game 
 it always comes in at the most opportune moment which totally brings the current situation to life. 
 When there is an action packed sequence, fast paced techno-rock will play to pump up your testosterone, 
 and when an upsetting scene takes place, sad music will slowly come into play to evoke emotion 
 into the player, which is a great touch in a game like Episode One.
  
  Much like the music and voice acting the graphics in Episode One dont disappoint. Half-Life 2 
 was an amazing looking game, and it would be hard to imagine it looking better than it does. Well 
 Episode One looks much better than Half-Life 2 in many aspects. Episode One features HDR which 
 is a nice effect, but not necessary and some dont even like it at all. However, it is still a 
 nice feature to have the option of using if your hardware is capable of having it running. Alyx 
 herself also looks much better than she did in Half-Life 2, and she also has her own individual 
 lighting that makes her stand out much more. It is apparent that much more time was spent into 
 the detail of Alyx to make her look her best for her four to six hour date with Gordon.
  
  Although, despite the fact that Episode One adds so many amazing things to the Half-Life 2 universe 
 it does come with its fair share of disappointments, the first of which being the games length. 
 Although, even though the game is not very long, it is not like it is very expensive either. Sold 
 at budget price, Episode One offers a very engaging conclusion to Half-Life 2, while providing 
 tons of that great Half-Life gameplay. Several other potentially disappointing factors are that 
 there is not much in the way of new multiplayer content. The multiplayer portion of Half-Life 2 
 is still in a questionable position. There is loads of fun to be found, but the lack of regular 
 updates and new maps really kills the experience of the multiplayer. Especially since Valve is 
 using the multiplayer as a selling point for Episode One. It was disappointing to not see any new 
 maps come out of Episode One for its multiplayer component.
  
  Another huge disappointment, which is just a ridiculous move by Valve, is the addition of the multiplayer 
 game Half-Life Deathmatch: Source. Half-Life Deathmatch: Source is the multiplayer component of 
 Half-Life: Source but there are so many problems with it, it is simply ludicrous. Half-Life: Source 
 itself was a very interesting port of the original game, featuring enhanced physics and environmental 
 effects, while the main graphics were left unchanged. Think of Half-Life: Source as a combination 
 of Half-Life plus fancy source engine effects and physics. Think of Half-Life Deathmatch: Source 
 as Half-Life 1 multiplayer and the source engine brutally smashed together with a sledge hammer. 
 Simply put, the state of this multiplayer game is a joke, and should not even be available to the 
 public in the current situation that it is in. What makes it all the more ridiculous is the fact 
 that Valve has the audacity to use this as a selling point for one of their games. It is difficult 
 to comprehend how Valve is capable of releasing such amazing games, while at the same time being 
 capable of releasing unfinished games like Half-Life Deathmatch: Source, Day of Defeat: Source 
 and Counter-Strike: Source. However, Counter-Strike: Source is no longer in this state, as it has 
 been progressively updated over the past two years since its release, Day of Defeat: Source and 
 Half-Life Deathmatch: Source still have a long ways to go until they can even be considered multiplayer 
 games worth playing.
  
  In light of Episode Ones minor disappointments, it is truly a remarkable and outstanding continuation 
 of the Half-Life series. It must be stressed that this is a must play for any Half-Life fan. And 
 if you have yet to player Half-Life 2, or even Half-Life 1 it is strongly suggested that you do 
 so, because Half-Life is destined to be a series to remember. Dont wait any longer, this is a 
 series that must be experienced by everyone, it just keeps getting better and better. Half-Life 
 2 will surely go down in gaming history as one of the best series of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gagan21
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 4, 2006 1:53 pm PT
Review:  half life 2 episode 1 plays better than the original plus the graphics are updated like hdr , episode 
 1 starts right wher half life 2 ended at a cliffhangar . the game improves a lot than the original 
 , hl2 s storyline was confussing sometimes and episode 1 fixes all those problems by letting alyx 
 with u all the time as she tells the story further as u escape from city 17.
  the only problem in ep1 is that it gets over very soon , i finished the game in less than 6 hours 
 ,hope they do better with episode 2 by extending time , like some where between 12 to 14 hours. 
 if u r a half life or fps fan than definately but this , its a must have for all hl fans , go ahead 
 and kill those antlions , plus in the end there is a teaser for ep [isode 2, so check it out now 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtbeacham
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 1, 2006 9:25 am PT
Review:  Valve has done it again. Half Life 2 blew me away when I first played it through. It was one of 
 those games where you never want it to end, and you just wish it would keep on going forever. Episode 
 1 has no drawbacks from Half LIfe 2. The gameplay is essentially the same, and the graphics continue 
 their quest as some of the best on the market. The sound is also excellent, especially with 5.1 
 stereo surround. Many have complained that the game is too short, but we must remember that it 
 is only $20, and that equates to about 5 or 6 levels according to the length of HL2, so I am satisfied. 
 I would absolutely recommend this game to anyone interested in FPS games or even action games in 
 general. This is just a game and series that you do not want to miss. The action is unrelenting 
 and awesome. Unlike some games where the action can get too repetitive and annoying even at times 
 (e. g. Darkwatch) , HL Episode 1 does a good job of mixing it up and making things interesting so 
 it never gets old. You will not be making a mistake by playing this game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sudantha8527
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 1, 2006 4:47 am PT
Review:  Well just done with Half Life 2: Spisode 1, the first of 3 episodes to follow Half Life 2, one 
 awesome game sequal to one of the best games I have ever played Half Life
  
  Half Life 2: Episode 1 continues the story where Half Life 2 ended, and it gives you some questions 
 that were unanswered in Half Life 2
  
  The GOOD: It stays true to the great story that the Half Life series has offered ove the years, 
 the game has some awesome graphics and great sounds that with a pair of earphones takes you to 
 a completly different reality. intence shooting, gives you some scares. In this game you aren't 
 alone Alex fights by you side and from time to time other squads, and Barny is back..
  
  The BAD: The game is short which would give you only about 5-6 hours of gameplay. If you havent 
 played Half Life 2 I recommend that you play that first, although this game is not an extension 
 but a standalone game by it self the story continues, half the excitement is in the story
  
  Overall the game is pretty godd by it self only if it was longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbubba92
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 30, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  i think this is a great addition to the story of Half Life but the real obvious drawback is... 
 it is very very very short!! u also have alyx by your side so it is a little easier, i also love 
 Half Life DM source which comes with it, it is surprisingly fun! i spent more hours on HL DM Source 
 than i did CSS which is like ... whoa! well bottom line is if u love half life get this game, if 
 u love fps et this game, if u just love an enjoyable game with action, puzzles, and adventure GET 
 THIS GAME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Necromace2938
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 30, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  This "episode" not game, episode, continues the half life franchise with its short but intense 
 action. All of the action is faced paced and filled with lovable, funny, or heart pounding moments 
 that should have you and your buddies talking about for a bit. 
  This small incriment in the half life franchise never really calls itself a full game, so you cant 
 really yell at it for its lack of gameplay in single player. It only cranks in to take away about 
 five hours of your boring life. But the action that you fell in love with in half life 2 is still 
 here, gravity gun and all. Alyx will accompany you for most of the game, and she provides some 
 comic releif and a good replacement for you when your running for med packs. Alyx is smart, she 
 knows what shes doing and can handle herself, and from what i can tell, shes invisible. But all 
 the characters are back, alyx, barney, Dr. Kleiner and Eli. 
  But to make this short this is pretty much half life 2 with a better lighting engine and alyx follwos 
 you around for about the whole game. Buy it. Its that simple, wheather you like half life or not. 
 Wheather you like FPS or not, i dont care. Buy this game. It really is deserving of credit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tysonius
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 30, 2006 12:37 am PT
Review:  First of all, I got way more than 4-6 hours of play out of Episode One, but then I'm an old fart, 
 and I like taking my time. Plus, there were some parts (the parking garage w/ant lions, for example) 
 that I had to play multiple times before I figured out how to get through the section. The graphics 
 really are second to none, as is the game play. The firefights are very intensive, though my squadmates 
 are often less of a help than a hindrance, in that they get in my way while I'm trying to fight. 
 Alyx is far more capable (and helpful) than most other squaddies, so that's a plus. Aside from 
 the short nature of this add-on (ended waaaay too soon for me) , the only other thing that bothered 
 me was all of the time spent underground or in buildings fighting headcrabs and zombies -- they really 
 creep me out. :) I think the snipers and striders are perhaps a little too good in the speed and 
 accuracy of their shooting, but I managed to get by them anyway. I personally found the game very 
 immersive, though I think I need to replay Half Life 1 to get the whole backstory; I feel like 
 I'm missing part of the picture, and I didn't play all the way to the end with HL 1. Still, the 
 voice acting is top-notch, the graphics unequalled, the sound effects excellent, the music very 
 good, and the game play was just right for me -- challenging, but not so hard that I couldn't figure 
 it out, or overcome all of my opponents. The puzzles were just right, too, in their complexity 
 and use of real-world mechanisms to solve them. Finally, I'm interested in the relationship between 
 Alyx and Gordon, and am wondering what will happen next in their adventures. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer3320022002
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 31, 2006 2:56 pm PT
Review:  Firstly I have to say that HL2-Episode One is hands down an amazing game as HL2 and HL1 was. The 
 game manages to draw you in at the first scenes you go through. The good HITS in this game has 
 to be the beautiful graphics, I noticed a very slightly but noticeable improvement in the graphics.... thanks 
 to the using of HDR technology which gives amazing realistic lighting effects which really shows 
 off the character modeling as well as the surrounding area ( I think we need more games with beautiful 
 HL2 water) . The story really captures you but doesn't give you enough to really draw you completely 
 in.... Also the puzzles are SO much fun all the way from unplugging cords to shut off force fields 
 to figuring out how to cross electrified water, the game is just plain old good fun. you haven't 
 delved into the Half-Life series yet you need to do so ASAP or you'll miss what makes games so 
 much fun to play. Lets just hope Episode Two will be much longer of a game with vehicles included 
 and much more of a story!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riyad_94
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 28, 2006 11:17 am PT
Review:  the first thing i must say is bravo again with the storyline, this is better than ever, same with 
 the graphics, splendid HDR work, just wish all games were like this. i really wish it lasted longer 
 though, i mean i expected like around the same as HL2 but its like 1/10th of HL2 in length. the 
 gameplay is the best i have seen in a long time. the thing that i really like is the fact that 
 im almost never alone. i always have Alex right by my side. she does get annoying sometimes like 
 either stealing my kills or push me out of the way when im standing somewhere in hre path, other 
 then some minor flaws this game should be remembered for a long, long time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwnr
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 28, 2006 10:59 am PT
Review:  Being a continuation of an epic series, Half-Life 2: Episode 1 deserves a lot of attention. 
  
  Gameplay:
  Pros - First, you get to have your sidekick Alyx along for pretty much the whole 
 game. The guns are reasonably balanced. First, the AI in this game is revolutionary. Enemies and 
 friendlies will be able to take cover, blast some Combine gray matter out and help you out whenever 
 they can. 
  Cons - There is occasional locking up at complex parts. 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are absolutely cutting-edge. The shaders, written in High Level Shader Language make 
 the scenery look beautiful. The very professionally made textures, along with high-dynamic range 
 lighting make scenery look really good. The engine is also very scalable, which allows me to play 
 on a really crappy graphics card. 
  
  Sound:
  Pros - The sound is reasonable for an environment like this. With distance, the sound is modified 
 so that it sounds far away. This adds to the realism of the graphics. 
  Cons - The sound can stutter at times. 
  
  Value:
  The game is very good, but it's too short. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neverender
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 28, 2006 7:16 am PT
Review:  Original review here...
  http://www. mattbrett. com/archives/2006/06/half-life-2-episode-one-review/
  
  Episode One picks 
 up right where Half-Life 2 left off. You just blew up the Citadel, time stopped and lots of bright 
 stuff. I was hoping that they would explain things right off the top, but Im afraid Im even more 
 confused in regards to just WTF happened up there. In any case, you wake up under a pile of rumble 
 back on the ground and youre greeted by Dog whos digging you out. Alyx isnt far away and the 
 2 of you join forces once again to continue to battle your way out of City 17, with a little help 
 from your friends along the way. And thats about all Im going to say about the story or major 
 events that unfold therein. So, no need to worry about spoilers from here on in.
  
  Needless to say, I couldnt wait to get my hands on Episode One and from the second I fired it 
 up and saw the menu screen, I knew I was in for a treat. Everything I loved about Half-Life 2 is 
 fully in tact. And theres lots of improvements to get excited about.
  
  Right off the bat, youll notice that Alyx looks a whole lot better. Her facial expressions in 
 particular are astounding! Youll see her go from happy to sad and everything in between. Barney 
 also looks significantly better. This time around, he looks in rough shape and hardly cracks a 
 smile ever. None the less, its great to see both characters back in action. I actually got excited 
 the first time I saw Barney. Like meeting up with an old friend unexpectedly. And thankfully, he 
 remembered to bring my crowbar once again. One of the best character improvements if the dialog. 
 You play the majority of the game with Alyx by your side and it truly feels like youve got a buddy 
 tagging along or better suited, covering your ass. Alyx is very witty this time around and constantly 
 cracking jokes. I found myself laughing out loud on a number of occasions. Partly because I wasnt 
 expecting her to say the things she did, Im sure. Some of her comments are just down-right hilarious!
 
  
  Episode One comes fully equipped with HDR lighting and if youve got the hardware to support it, 
 youre in for a show. Unfortunately, I didnt have that luxury. Christopher Welch has a nice set 
 on Flickr with HDR enabled. Check that out if youre not sure what kind of effect is produces.
 
  
  Enemy AI has also been improved. Youll notice that everyone from the zombies to Combine and even 
 the Striders are quite a bit smarter and will use the environment against you whenever the opportunity 
 arises. Added to the mix of baddies are the zombified Combine, dubbed by Alyx as Zombine. These 
 dudes are fast, tough and suicidal. They light up grenades, hold them above their head and charge 
 head-long at you while it beeps away. Needless to say, the first few times I came across them, 
 I was on the edge of my seat. Shortly after your first encounter with a Zombine, you find yourself 
 in a few dark areas where you have to rely on your flashlight and sporadic flares to guide you. 
 This entire sequence was super intense with dudes coming at you from all angles and literally appearing 
 through the darkness.
  
  As you might expect, theres some puzzles dependent on the incredible physics engine that might 
 get you scratching your head. They wont take long to figure out and theres always that hint of 
 joy that follows once youve figured one out and completed it. One in particular that involves 
 numerous explosive barrels and trip mines. Fun, fun, fun!
  
  They story and back story of Half-Life has always been a little hazy. As I mentioned, this is still 
 the case in Episode One. But along the way, youll learn quite a bit about the smaller details. 
 While you dont come face to face with Dr. Kleiner this time around, you see and hear him through 
 the game in the form of a repeating public service announcement thats being broadcast through-out 
 City 17. Very cool way of getting out more into for those that are interested. If youd rather 
 be shooting **** keep moving and ignore him. Nice that you have the option either way.
  
  There really isnt enough good things I could say about this game. Ive been a fan of the Half-Life 
 series since HL1 had me staying up until 4am on school nights. If you played Half-Life 2 and enjoyed 
 it, without a doubt get Episode One. Its Half-Life 2 with everything slightly improved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skippyj9
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 27, 2006 12:54 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2: Episode One is the sequel to one of the greatest games of all time, Half-Life 2. HL2: E1 
 is great in every sense of the word.
  You start out back in City 17, your first mission of the game is to stabilize the core of the citadel, 
 your second is to get the heck out of City 17. Alyx sticks with you for nearly the whole duration 
 of your 6 hour adventure. Unlike many helper NPCs, Alyx is actually useful and throughout most 
 of the beginning will save your butt numerous times. Many people think that this game is too short, 
 but what do you expect from a budget-priced game? For the price I was expecting a lot less than 
 a near-flawless 6 hours of play.
  The gameplay in HL2: E1 is more intense and will require more puzzle solving than that of HL2. Many 
 new elements are introduced, showing you that this is more than just an expansion of HL2. Half-Life 
 has always been the thinker's FPS. Much unlike games like Halo which are just run and gun and have 
 no real immersion. Immersion is another reason why HL is always so great, you are never taken out 
 of the first-person perspective.
  The voice-work is far above amazing. The voices are top-notch and the acting is outstanding. In 
 the more intense fights, the techno-rock music kicks in. At times I feel like the fights are choreographed 
 to the music, it's that suiting.
  The physics in this game are top-notch, but that hasn't changed from HL2. However, with the inclusion 
 of HDR (High-Dynamic Range) Lighting the graphics are vastly improved. Textures are beautiful as 
 well, and nothing is as satisfying as blowing those frickin' zombies in two with a flaming "Flammable 
 Barrel".
  Overall, my opinion. First buy Half-Life 2 and play tit through (And even Half-Life if you have 
 the time, because it still holds up as a great game by even today's standards) if you haven't already, 
 because you will be lost storywise, and not know how to play if you don't. Then buy Half-Life 2: 
 Episode One. It's the greatest 20 buck game of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drichard2830
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 27, 2006 9:02 am PT
Review:  My first episodic game was the recent Sin Episodes: Emergence (see my review) which I was fairly 
 enamored by. I enjoyed the climactic battle, the intriguing story, and even the cliffhanger pieces 
 at the end (though the wrap up after the battle was very abrupt) . So I didn't hesitate to pick 
 up the Half Life 2: Episode 1 when I finished the other. I'm a bit confused (SPOILER ALERT) though, 
 since I was last at the top of the citadel, blowing it all to crap, when the G-man sweeps me away 
 and I watch as Alyx is threatened by the explosion. Of course, she is saved, as you were, but how 
 do you end up unconscious with her again at the beginning of the game? Did the G-man just decide 
 he wanted you to get her out of City 17? Maybe this will be clarified in another episode, but I'm 
 not sure.
  
  The story is that you must get out of the city before the citadel explodes, and take Alyx with 
 you. You fight mostly the same creatures as before, but there are some fun puzzles that you get 
 to solve along the way. There is one very dark level where you can only see with your flashlight 
 on, and believe me, watching your battery power and the enemy can be a tricky feat. The only new 
 creature I fought was a zombified combine soldier, I guess the head crabs finally got to them too. 
 The final showdown was nowhere near as intriguing as the Sin Episodes, in my opinion, but it was 
 intense, and I was stressed to make it past. However, as I successfully pulled away from City 17, 
 once again, the ending confused me a bit. Anyway, if given the choice, I would rather play through 
 Sin Episodes: Emergence again over HL2: EP1, but I'll probably play through both anyway, since they 
 only take 5 - 6 hours to complete. I think Sin took longer, just because all the architecture, 
 level design and enemies were brand new to me, where the HL2 stuff was just more of the same.
 
  
  Needless to say, the game has the same great HL2 gameplay, weapons and AI, so it wasn't disappointing, 
 just a little more so to me than Sin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keinende
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 26, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Usually I would write a more lengthy review, but this title is not worth my time. I'll follow Episode 
 One's footsteps and keep this extremely brief. 
  
  Prepare for ranting. 
  
  The bad:
  BETTER THAN HALF-LIFE 2? ARE YOU KIDDING? HA HA HA! 
  I apologize for my immature outburst. Usually 
 I don't disagree strongly enough to write something negative, but this will be an exception. There 
 is absolutely NO new content except new levels and story progression. Do not expect any new art/weapons/you 
 name it. The worth of the content presented here should be about 10$, not 20$. 
  
  The good:
  You finally get to play with Alyx however, this is something that should have been 
 included in Half Life 2 all along. There is one new zombie! He goes kamikaze grenade style! Though 
 it seems they bugged the AI reactions to grenades by adding this. You will repeatedly hear Alyx 
 or combine yelling "grenade!" just to see them run over and stand on it.
  
  Conclusion:
  In all seriousness, if you like watching the extended features of DVDs, and you don't want to miss 
 a smidgen of the story, this is for you. As for everyone else, borrow it from your buddy... OH 
 WAIT YOU CANT, STEAM WILL NOT LET YOU!
  
  Im sure by reading my short review you are disheartened to the validity of my opinion. I leave 
 you asking only this; What is your 20$ worth to you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: houtx1836
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 26, 2006 3:02 am PT
Review:  Episode 1 takes place immediately following Half-Life 2. This game is comprised of 5 levels where 
 you will have to think a bit as well as run and gun. Graphics and sound are strong but be advised 
 - the game is short - and intended to be. It's the first in a new trilogy of stand alone games. 
 Alyx, your companion through this game, is a strong character and can hold her own. At first, I 
 thought she'd get annoying after a couple of levels but soon I realized she was very handy. It 
 has the typical enemies from the previous game. The main plot invloves escaping form City 17 - 
 which shouldn't take too long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 7sonic
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 23, 2006 4:07 pm PT
Review:  I really enjoyed Half-Life 2 when I first played it on my PC. The graphics were amazing, the story 
 was gripping, and the game was very fun to play. The ending to Half-Life 2 left me on the edge 
 of my seat wanting to know what happened next. Well thanks to Half-Life 2: Episode One, players 
 can find out what happens next in the story. However, unlike Half-Life 2, Episode One is a very 
 short game.
  
  Episode One's story leaves off where Half-Life 2 ended, and I do not want to ruin the story for 
 anyone who has not played that game yet. So here is the plot, Gordon and Alyx contact Dr. Kleiner 
 and Eli only to learn they have to escape City 17. The story is good and continues from Half-Life 
 2 just fine.
  
  Episode One's gameplay is similar to Half-Life 2 as it is a continuation. This involves players 
 taking the role of Gordon Freeman, combating Combine soldiers and solving puzzles. Episode One 
 adds to this gameplay by placing in new features such as new puzzles and the ability to use "rolling 
 mines", not to mention a few new enemies such as a Combine Zombie. For example new puzzles involve 
 use of the gravity gun to solve, for example figuring out how to block off an Antlion pit. Throughout 
 the game Alyx is by Gordon's side so she helps you out in some situations, for example she can 
 make rolling mines go after enemies. Of course like Half-Life 2, there's the joy of shooting down 
 Combine soldiers, zombies, and Headcrabs. The gravity gun is back and it's still fun to use. It 
 was very short, but still it was enjoyable. Also the multiplayer games included added some decent 
 online fun.
  
  Graphics are very similar to those on Half-Life 2. They look very realistic and very detailed. 
 Characters are very detailed and have expressions that look real, especially Alyx. The sound is 
 very realistic with some excellent voice acting that gives characters life. There is not so much 
 with background music, but whatever music was heard was excellent.
  
  Overall, Half-Life 2: Episode One was a pretty fun experience in my opinion. It was on the short 
 side and like Half-Life 2 left me wanting to know what happens next, but still enjoyable. Also 
 the Half-Life 2 Deathmatch and Half-Life Deathmatch Source games included with Episode One add 
 for some online fun. I recommend this game for anyone who played Half-Life 2. If you never played 
 Half-Life 2, then I recommend playing the original first to tie in the story together. If you don't 
 like the Half-Life series altogether or short games, then this game might not be for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mimic-Denmark
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 23, 2006 10:08 am PT
Review:  Though both hl2 and hl2 episode 1 are fun to play, i do think they are both extremly overrated. 
 Hl2 does more charecter this time but still no real story, which was what i really missed in hl2 
 that more felt like and X files episode, it teases you with some things but never really gives 
 and real clear answer, and that to me can work on a television show where you dont have to wait 
 so long for the next peice, but in a pc game it only works against it in the long run. I really 
 dont hope that many other develporers are gonna follow in valves footsted with episodic content, 
 a really great game is something that that you can dig yourself into and not just be over with 
 it in a 2-3 hours time, even though its like an expansion pack, many good expansion packs like 
 the doom 3 expansion, came out sooner after the originals games realease, offered more, and had 
 a lot more value in it. And most of the beginning of episode 1 you mostly just get to play with 
 the gravity gun, and dont get me wrong its a very cool weapon but some balance people, more new 
 enimies and please trow some new guns into the hl world instead of just the usaul. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakeGates
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 22, 2006 7:26 pm PT
Review:  Another note worthy addition to the Half Life series. It has everything you can expect from a Half 
 Life game. It has amazing graphics and the realistic physics. it has the same adredline pumpin' 
 techno music that you have come to love. The incredibly intelligent and realistic AI is still there. 
 And the great story line and fast paced action is right where you left it. and almost every second 
 of the game you think you are actually in your computer. The one and only downfall is the short 
 playtime of this game it only last you 4-6 hours. but it is still a great game so if you want to 
 find out what happens after the cliff hanger ennding in half life 2 then I suggest you pick this 
 game up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pehota
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 22, 2006 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Well, Epizode one is as great as HL2 but way too short, it took me about 3 hours to walkthrough. 
 plus i think it was much easier than HL2. Still graphics and sound is amazing i felt like i am 
 back in HL2. I have some adrenaline rush in some moments, like when you going in those garages 
 in total darkness. I could not see a crap and my flashlight was my only source of survival. LOL! 
 
  
  Also Creators added some new zombi who is hard to kill, its a mixture of soldier and that jumping 
 crap. LOL I acctualy expect new weapons but NO, nothing new in that section. 
  
  Big turn off its shortness of the game. i even question the price, worth it of 20 $ i would give 
 12.99$ for that game. 
  
  Runs good on Ge Force 6600 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 007Master7
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 22, 2006 3:25 pm PT
Review:  HL2: Episode 1 is what happens directly after the events of HL2. you and Alyx Vance are on a mission 
 to get out of City 17 and get as many civilians out as possible. The levels are fun with just the 
 right amount of things that make you think. The game is short but we only paid $20 for it.. shouldn't 
 be 10-20 hours long.. there are no new weapons, and only one new enemy.. but the gameplay is still 
 as good as ever. I have almost beaten it 4 times and it is still fun.. there isn't a ton of complex 
 story.. just you and Alyx are getting out of City 17 and then there are a few things that make 
 you wonder plotwise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pauljorr
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 22, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2: Episode 1 was the game I just had to have this spring. After the cliff-hanger in Half-Life 
 2 I just had to know what happened to Gordon and the rest of the gang. Episode 1 did not disappoint. 
 
  
  The gameplay was excellent. Many new and surprising features were added to the Source Engine. The 
 levels were interesting and difficult. The story was not forced in any way and it really felt natural. 
 The programmers really did a good job with all of the aspects of the game. The improved scripting 
 in the game was superb. Objects falling on you, Alexs new moves, and all of the other surprises 
 that were in store, were all great additions to the gameplay. 
  
  The graphics were also excellent. The people at Valve really upgraded the graphics in this one. 
 The facial expressions were upgraded as well as the addition of High-Dynamic Range Lighting. It 
 really is starting to look like real people in a movie. They have a ways to go but its getting 
 close. 
  
  The sound was one of the best parts of the game. The creepy fully dark areas were enhanced by the 
 groans and screeches of the monsters. Many of the story points in the story are scripted, but they 
 sound excellent and come at the opportune moments. The voice acting is perfect; you really get 
 the sense that these are real people in real situations. 
  
  Value is the one problem I have with this game. I know with the new episodic structure the games 
 are going to be shorter, but it only took me about 3  hours to finish the game. Yeah the price 
 was only $19.99 but it all seemed to end too quickly. I really think that they could have added 
 a whole lot more too many of the levels of the game. I would have loved more of the underground, 
 totally dark levels. Also I found that the time spent above ground was also too short. Other than 
 the shortness of the game the value is good. The shortness if anything just made me want to get 
 Episode 2 as soon as possible. 
  
  All in all, it was a great game, with surprises, plot points, great graphics, sound and gameplay. 
 The only thing is I wish it were a little bit longer. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevo_the_gamer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 22, 2006 12:14 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2: Episode 1 is the first of three episodes coming. It follows after the highly acclaimed 
 Half-Life 2, and continues the dramatic story of Gordon Freemon and Alyx. The game was brilliantly 
 put together and will offer you some intense kick-ass fun.
  
  The game play of Half-Life 2: Episode 1 was very well put together. You will end up having to use 
 the game Physics to get around obstacles, just ass using the gravity gun once more to clear paths 
 and create new ones. More game play tricks and ways to overcome your enemies such as when you are 
 in the dark, there will be flares in which you can pick up and throw to see your enemies while 
 in the shadows underneath. Another is when the ant lions spawn in their hole things, you can use 
 your gravity gun and play a car over it and thus, they can't spawn anymore.
  
  More enemies are in the game such as the new Combine zombie and this new zombie will frustrate 
 you a lot. The new zombie can attack you 'kamaquazi' style by taking out a grenade and running 
 toward you with grenade in hand. They are very armored and hard to kill. Another type of character 
 you will end up killing will be the Stalker. These creatures you saw in Half-Life 2 while in the 
 Citadel. They attack you by shooting some type of laser from their head; also, they could also 
 block your way by closing doors. 
  
  The game play overall was very good to me, this game got me a solid four hours of game play, but 
 it was over before I knew it. For what I paid for, I did not receive back. I am hoping the next 
 episodes will give me more than just four hours of game play. The game is not technically worth 
 the twenty dollars you are spending. The game however comes with Half Life 2: Deathmatch and Half-Life 
 Deathmatch Source, but, you will end up finding they will get old fast.
  
  The Graphics and the Sound were superb. The graphics that I saw were just as good as Half-Life 
 2's graphics. I saw better detail in the environment than in Half-Life 2, and the weapons seemed 
 more detailed. I ran this baby with a 256MB NVIDIA 7800 GTX and it ran beautifully. Frame rate 
 was solid and my game never slowed down. The sound sounded much better than Half-Life 2's. The 
 weapons sounded much better than in Half-Life 2 and the voice acting of Alyx was superb.
  
  So, if you want to waste twenty dollars, waste it on this game. This game is a must-have for Half-Life 
 2 fans only. If you somewhat liked Half-Life 2, think twice before buying this game. Overall though, 
 its a great game, but extremely short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lesner87
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 21, 2006 1:19 am PT
Review:  First of all i would like to introduce the game little bit, for those of you who are not familiar 
 with the Half life series, its a fast paced first person shooter game with the story of Gordon. Anyways 
 this episode in the series was a big disappointment to many as it did not give them what they wanted 
 comparably to Half life 2.
  For those of you who are gonna play this episode for the first time i recommend you to finish Half 
 life 2 first and then play this,,, as the starting of the episode itself is from the ending of half 
 life two. let me describe the basic things of this episode.
  
  GAMEPLAY:::the gameplay is fun until a certain time but after a few hours of gameplay it dosent 
 get boring nor does it drop your jaw!!! so expect just satisfactory about the gameplay. You wont 
 find the gameplay that intense but its worth a try. the new things added to the gameplay are a little 
 bit of speed breaker to that fast pace as there are more areas where you cant fight openly and 
 would need to use your brain!!
  The first few chapters just drag you along with a series of close combats which eventually become 
 boring and then when the real action starts the game ends????
  your arsenal ranges from sci-fi zero point gravity guns to old fashioned revolver (magnum) but it 
 really keeps up with game and is also very useful,, the question here is that instead of adding 
 a new weapon one of the old ones have been REMOVED!!! 
  
  GRAPHICS:::the graphics are really nice compared not only to half life 2 but also to many other 
 games the new High Dynamic Rates take the graphics of the game to a whole new level and the old 
 reality engine in which many things are intractable,, is also made nicely. The shaders, lightnings 
 and model details are simply superb!!! and with your gravity gun you can make the graphics come 
 to live!!!
  
  SOUND:::the sound is pretty good too as when you start to fight and move into more action the sound 
 also shifts with you which makes your adrenaline come out real time and your ready to fight or 
 fly!!!
  
  The Game is just fine and will not waste that much of your time the drawbacks are simple!!!! the 
 long car -to- boat action has been removed and there arent many more add-ons to the game.
  
  Hardcore half life players may finish the game within 3-4 hours, FPS players will take around 
 5-7 hours and those of you who are unbound to fps games it wont be taking you more then 12 hours 
 so the gameplay isnt BIG TIME.
  
  Anywayz the game is worth a try especially for Half Life lovers aswell as for FPS lovers,, the rest 
 of you can take it out of the cart thinking that you havent left much behind!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rambo_Potter
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge fan of HL2 and wasn't disappointed at all by this latest installment. The team play 
 with Alyx is fun and her dialogue really keeps the game interesting. She's a great companion to 
 have tagging along. I thought it was a little disappointment there wasn't more of her in HL2 and 
 Ep1 fixes that. Unfortunately, there is only 3 1/2 to 4 hours to the game which is really Ep1's 
 only downfall and likely the next two episodes downfall. But for 20 dollars, these few hours are 
 a lot better than 10-20 hours of many other games on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer6534
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  When Half life 2 came out in 2004, It endded with a cliffhanger that had gamers everywhere begging 
 for more. Last summer, Valve showed what was then known as Half life 2: Aftermath. The game was 
 supposed to be a traditional expansion pack. Then in december it was revealed that aftermath would 
 be split up into 3 episodes released 6 months apart from each other. It's been a year and a half 
 since Half life 2 came out but i'm happy to say it worth the wait. Episode One is an amazing achivement, 
 the only problem is that its over before you know it.
  
  The fact that the game is basically a third of the origonal plan, means that it only clocks in 
 at about 5 hours, but don't think that it wont be time well spent, Episode one sticks to the basic 
 formula that half life 2 put into to place. That formula being Non stop action and puzzles, and 
 valve delivers on every front.
  
  The story picks up Immediatley where Half life 2 Left off. If you havent 
  played half life 2, 
 then I won't spoil anything for you here. All i'll say is that your task is to get out of city 
 17 as fast as possible, doing whatever it takes. 
  
  Gameplay is a non stop thrill ride that keeps you on the edge of you seat. the game has a nef feature 
 where alyx is by your side for almost the entire game. This add something new to the franchise 
 and gets away from the Superhuman army of one mechanic found in most of half life 2, and also Alyx's 
 AI is so good, you sometimes think that it's a real person next to you. the same goes for the enemies. 
 The combine are no pushovers, and belive me, they wont go down without a fight, you'll actually 
 have to use your head to survive.
  
  As always, the presentation is top notch. the Graphics are great, the story is actually interesting, 
 the voice acting is awesome, and the characters are memorable. This is the standard that all First 
 Person Shooters should follow.
  
  So, if you liked Half life 2, well chances are you bought this game and beat it on day one. If 
 you are wondering wether to jump on the half life band wagon with this one, I recommend you play 
 the origional first to keep up on the story. but no matter which half life you play, you wont be 
 dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyshinigami
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 9:03 am PT
Review:  The game is too short!!! I finished it in just 4 hours!!!!
  Luckily there's not much headcrabs zombies in this episode^^ (oh gawd,"We Dont Go to Ravenholms" 
 was a nightmare for me)
  Its great that we have gravity gun from the beginning. It makes it easier coz we dont have a gun 
 in the beginning of Half Life 2 and cant spank those stupid Combines right when you meet'em in 
 City17.
  The whole game would be great if its longer, I dont even know that it could be too short with the 
 amount of gb it took in my harddrive.
  The boss fight wasnt so great at all. They should improve it and make it better........ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Babypenguin
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 5:57 am PT
Review:  Ive enjoyed playing all of the Half life Games, and this one included, but i have a few criticisms. 
 
  
  The Game play is enjoyable and fun to play, but i don't believe it was different enough from HL2. 
 Half Life 2 had a lot more in it, and utilized more of the potential of half life. HL2: Episode 
 isnt as demanding as HL2. there isn't as many occasions where you have to use your intellect and 
 alot of the 'puzzles' are just the same as in HL2, so if you've played HL2 figuring it out is a 
 doddle.
  
  To add to the lack of Gameplay i found it incredibly short as it seemed to come to an abrupt end 
 all of a sudden and Story Wise, it doesn't add much to HL. After completing the game you feel as 
 though nothing much has actually happened. i think they could have extended the game slightly, 
 but im still looking forward to Episode 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karatedog
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 20, 2006 5:54 am PT
Review:  All right, so I beat the game during the same weekend I did the 1000km Suzuka endurance race in 
 Gran Turismo 4. Basically it took me more time to finish off the 6 hours race in GT4 than beating 
 HF2E1. That I think says it all. So value wise it's pretty weak game. I wouldn't say it's a bad 
 game overall because it's not. There are few new innovations and original ideas, which are well 
 implemented. Especially in the beginning. We are not talking about Psychonauts kind of innovative 
 ideas, but for an FPS it's all right.
  
  Graphics is fine except maybe for the debris and ruins here and there. But the rest of it is quite 
 all right. I'd like to note how delightful it is to play in open areas (unlike in Doom 3 engined 
 games like D3, and Prey) . Personally I wouldn't mind if there were no better looking games as of 
 now. So developers should focus on story and gameplay instead. Speaking of witch, the story - just 
 like in HF2 is almost non existent. Which is a huge problem to me. I liked HF1 because it has a 
 great story brilliantly told by the game. Now that's missing. Badly.
  
  Gameplay is okay. Sounds are mostly all right, I liked the heavy sound of most weapons. Besides 
 some backround (ambient) effects are getting boring to me. I see what the consistency is for but 
 listening the same voices and sounds in HF1 +2 mission disk, then HF2, and again in HF2 mission 
 disk... it's getting really old really fast. 
  
  Finally my recommendation. Basically my feeling from start to finish was like I re-installed HF2 
 after a year and played a little again. Then suddenly it was all over. If it were a demo of the 
 game then it would be one of the greatest demos of all time. But it's a full game. So even though 
 it's a fine game from most aspects (even menus are all top notch) for being a full game it's just 
 not enough. 
  
  /My rig: P4 3GHz 1GB Ram Ati X800Pro/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matrixman313
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 23, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  If you like Half Life 2 than you will definitely love this game. It continues the story from HL2 
 right after you defeated Dr. Breen. This game has a great story to it just like all of the Half 
 Life games and I think that it is actually much more fun than the original HL2. If you haven't 
 played HL2 yet I would suggest that you buy and play through HL2 before playing Episode 1 because 
 knowing the story really helps to add to the game. It is a little bit on the easy side just like 
 HL2 was, but I didn't think that this was a detriment to the game at all because it really felt 
 to me like it was the combination of a movie and a video game because it has such an interesting 
 and immersive story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pidow
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 19, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  more action. Deeper interaction between players in the game would make it better. Gordon, could 
 be alittle more involved. He needs to show he is alive (get mad, happy, etc.) . Stronger flashlight. 
 This Steam, has got to go, it may be good for some, but all I want to do is put in the CD and play; 
 not having to wait, be connected, updated, wait again, update again, server delayed.... I play totally 
 off-line. I should not have to wait to play, they did not have to wait to be paid, so I shoulden't 
 have to wait to be connected to anybody period. Otherwise, the game was good, not long, but good!. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireSlash117
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 18, 2006 5:42 pm PT
Review:  I have always loved the Half Life series, and feel that Episode One is a worthy successor to Half 
 Life 2. It has fun and captivating gameplay, suberb voiceovers and an engaging story. This game 
 partners you up with Alyx for most of it, and she helps you a good deal. Though an escort mission 
 sounds stupid, it does not feel this way at all, as Alyx is invincible, and a good gun. WHile it 
 may be unrealistic to make it possible for her to take round after found of enemy fire, it is in 
 my opinion far superior to watching her die and having to reload your quicksave. She also follows 
 rather than leads, so the game still makes it feel like you are in charge, and for severl long 
 segments you will leaver her and play alone. Gameplay for the title hasn't changed at all since 
 Half Life 2, which is not a bad thing, as mowing down combine is incredibly fun, and physics based 
 problem solving feels fun and makes you feel clever when you solve it. This games graphics are 
 also superb, running in nearly full DirextX 8 settings on my not so powerful PCI FX5200. This way 
 it looks great, has no slowdown and quick loadtimes. Those with cards powerful enough to support 
 it will recieve some impressive features like dynamic lighting and the like, many of which were 
 featured in the Loast Coast Demo. Replay value is only decent, and I was rather interested in the 
 Commentary system that is included, and thought it was worth playing through again just to hear 
 some of the Developer's thoughts and plans for the game. To conclude this game is extremely fun, 
 I can't wait for episode 2, and it is well worth the small $20 price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carlospeixoto
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 18, 2006 7:20 am PT
Review:  All the gameplay, grafics and atmosfere on half life 2: episode 1, is at the higher level! but 
 it comes to be a short game, with only a couple of hours of playtime! Its more the same than half 
 life 2, but it continus the story, so dont miss it! but as it is only a part, of the three episodes 
 and its cheaper it turns to be a good way of playing some newer level and uncovering the mysteries 
 of half life in a less heavy way to the wallet! 
  The ending of episode one, gives the player an extra motivation to play the second episode, because 
 probabily the player will start its journey somewhere outside city 17, at least this is good news! 
 its may give the game a diferent look, to freshen up the player taste! and the oportunity to meat 
 some other enemies than the ones seen before! to finish the review, the multiplayer mode isn't 
 present in this episode and pribabily the others, so if u wan't to play multiplayer u must buy 
 half life 2 it self!
  Keep up playing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokisul
Rating: 6.3
Date: Jul 18, 2006 3:29 am PT
Review:  Im sorry, but ive loved Half-Life since i was in high school n HL1 came out for first time, but 
 this is just... well borin!!!
  
  I finished it all in one sitting, i play my games normally for a story, but in this... the story 
 barely got advanced at all!!! Freeman got out the tower, he goes back to the tower, he blows up 
 the tower... wait i thought that happened in the first one neway!! May aswell left it how it was 
 n we would of thought he blew it all up anyway!!
  
  Further more to my rant... no new baddies, no new guns... At least Blue Shift and Opposing Force 
 had new stuff!! But this... 
  
  I look forward to Episode 2 tho, as it comes with the new Team Fortress 2, but besides that... 
 i hope they do a better job!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marijuana_man2
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2006 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Episode 1 takes after the destruction of the citadel, as well as the meeting with Gordon and the 
 G-man....
  
  Gameplay is still the same, but the aux power (in my opinion) has twice more juice in the last 
 game making the flashlight shine longer, and you need it, in some places in the game there are 
 parts on where the room is so dark its ridiculous...
  
  So far there's no new guns, so the whole thing kinda gets repetitive for a little while, the puzzles 
 are new and fun to do, but it will take a while to figure them out though, and the difficulty is 
 still the same: its easy, its so simple to go through the entire game even on hard....
  
  In end Half-life 2: episode one kinda lives up to the hype, but then doesn't, nonetheless its a 
 great game that doesn't need to be complicated to both to the hard and soft core gamers.... l, l 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ben_kahn
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 17, 2006 12:05 am PT
Review:  No one is going to debate it - Half Life 2 : Episode 1 melds more of the same fantastic atmoshperic 
 and engrossing shooting and puzzling action that benefited it's predecessors. The real question 
 is, is this few hours as good as Half-Life 3 would have been 2 years from now?
  The answer is, well, no. Not yet at least... not until the episodic format is given time to prove 
 itself, or to fall flat on it's face. That doesn't change the fact that Episode is markedly better 
 than most games on the market currently, if only minutely better than Half Life 2.
  The gameplay is enhanced by the addition of more of the thinking-on-your-feet puzzle solving scenarios, 
 and by the presence of an AI teammate for the majority of the game. Alyx's ongoing companionship 
 and narrative, along with that of a few old allies, also help to give the universe a more cohesive, 
 human feel. She makes light of whatever is going on in the game world, and adds in a colorful joke 
 now and then for good measure. That said, the (gravity) gunplay is as satisfying and visceral as 
 ever. It sure ain't broke.
  The graphics still look lovely, and the HDR lighting is extremely impressive although blaringly 
 unrealistic at times. I should note that on my system the game froze more times than can be called 
 acceptable until I reduced the resolution, at which point it still looked very good, but didn't 
 quite take on the life of it's own apparent at the higher settings.
  Ultimately, if your on the fence about this game, then chances are you haven't played the original 
 Half Life 2. If you have, then there is little question your going to have every desire to continue 
 the sage of Mr. Freeman in whatever form Valve deems appropriate. Although Episode One lacks the 
 punch of a full, brand new opus, it's an introduction to the new episodic presentation of the Half 
 Life universe. Only time will tell if this is a good thing or not, but in the present you can extend 
 one of the most compelling games out there by a solid 5 or 6 hours and be treated to yet another 
 cliffhanger ending.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnlivedPhalanx
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2006 12:02 am PT
Review:  With each passing game, Half-Life developer Valve seems to have refined its winning formula down 
 to what makes an award winning game. Even more interesting, they manage to do it with each and 
 every title they release. Half-Life 2 Episode One stands as no exception to this rule.
  
  Half-Life 2 Episode One starts the moment after Half-Life 2 ended. Without including any spoilers, 
 its safe to say it was an unexpected and epic opening, launching you right back into the Combine 
 Citadel and the most amazing reactor chamber ever seen in a game or movie alike. The entire first 
 chapter of Episode One is essentially an interactive cut-scene that really explains the fallout 
 of the explosion of Breens teleporter. Since Gordon Freeman doesnt utter a single word, it has 
 to be explained through dialogue between Alyx and Dr. Vance or Kleiner.
  
  One thing that was missing in Half-Life 2 that Episode One seems to have done very well, is telling 
 more of the story of City 17 and the fallout of your experiment in Black Mesa. Throughout the entire 
 game Alyx is constantly by your side providing a running commentary and her dialogue back and forth 
 with other characters should provide more insight to everything as you progress through the game. 
 As City 17 is being evacuated Dr. Kleiner has a looping message that explains some of the techniques 
 employed by the Combine to quell human resistance.
  
  Graphically Episode One brings the latest graphical techniques and employs them to create powerful 
 environments. Things like real-time blurring and geometry altering states now appear along with 
 High Dynamic Range Lighting, giving the game a very organic, natural look to it. While it doesnt 
 run quite as smoothly as Half-Life 2 did, Episode One manages to be very playable even on lower 
 end systems.
  
  The only criticism that can be brought against Half-Life 2 Episode One is the fact that it was 
 a very short game. As an episode you pay for one third of the game at one third of the price to 
 get the segments much faster. PC gaming veterans will only get about 4-5 hours of game play out 
 of it and less experienced gamers might possibly get on the lower end of 6.
  
  While short, the game features an audio commentary system for replay value. It adds a lot of dimension 
 to the game if you are into that sort of thing. If you could care less about early versions of 
 maps youre playing on or simply dont care for commentary, you wont find much replay value in 
 Episode One.
  
  Overall Half-Life 2 Episode One just feels like a better game than Half-Life 2, the A. I. was vastly 
 improved, graphics updated, and the overall feel felt better. Half-Life 2 Episode One feels like 
 it could have been a stand alone game had it been longer, nonetheless it lives up to its name and 
 then some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corlorde
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 14, 2006 2:49 pm PT
Review:  It seemed to me that the intent of this expansion pack was for the developer to float a few, "trial 
 balloons" out there with the puzzles and interactions with other characters in the game like Alex. 
 A little release at a time allows the developer to tweak the game's intent before the release, 
 instead of throwing out one big flop. Not only does a big flop waste everyone's time, it makes 
 no one any money, and just irritates everyone.
  
  Having said that, I'll gladly fork over 20 bucks a pop to play this game and follow the story. 
 Nothing really revolutionary here, but I'd be remiss if I didn't finish this thing out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brewed100
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 12, 2006 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Overall, HL2 E1 keeps its promise and delivers a fun immersive game. What's cool is the gameplay 
 mechanics which are a bit different since Alex is partnered with Freeman. I also like the fact 
 that the story picks right up where it left off and the player has to make his way back from the 
 citadel out to City 17 - no new whiz bang 'magic' level. The graphics were on point. I swear, valve 
 is the only crew that fully masters lighting be it day/night, interior/exterior. And the fact that 
 it's a world we can relate to (ruined building, war zones) adds to grit of the story.
  
  On the minus side Episode 1 doesn't hold up too well on its own (as HL1 and HL2) because of its' 
 length. Maybe if it were twice the length it would make most avid gameplayers happy.
  
  On the whole, the was fun, and did not disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brutalus7
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2006 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is (to me) the greatest game ever. The gameplay was immersive, characters complete, 
 and combat balanced and challenging. Episode 1 delivers more of the same, and in some cases is 
 better than the original. The scripted sequences were authentic and convincing, but got to be lengthy 
 in a quite short 4-5 hour game. Overall, HL2 Ep 1 felt more like a Bonus Chapter from HL2 than 
 an expansion, as most of the action was similar to what was included in the original HL2.
  
  I agree that Valve shouldn't quit developing with Half-Life 2 technology while it's still up 
 to the standard of current and new games, but delivering 5 hours at a time isn't the right way 
 to go about it. Episode 1 was near perfect while it lasted, but it was way too short. Even two 
 more chapters would have made the Episode as near to perfect as an expansion can be.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigjeffery82
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 12, 2006 1:08 pm PT
Review:  I've never played any of the Half Life games before. All the reviews have praised and praised the 
 games especially Half Life 2. The main reason i haven't played HA 2 is because i can never find 
 a copy of it in my local store. So when Episode 1 came out it was everywhere. I knew it wasn't 
 going to be a full title like HA 2 but it still dissapointed me. O. K. the first impressions were 
 good. The graphics were ok but i expected better from a new game. They were dull and boring and 
 the shadows are well dodgey. The gameplay is fun and exciting which is the most important thing. 
 I was really getting into the story of trying to flee city 17 and then the game stopped. Ihad finished 
 it the same day as i bought it. The same afternoon i installed it. Episode 1 only cost 20 quid 
 but i think even that price is too high. Too be honest i won't be reccomending this game to my 
 friends or anyone actually. Lets hope Episode 2 has a bit more to it length ways. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warhammer5678
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 12, 2006 9:04 am PT
Review:  Half Life episode one is a really fun game just as fun as HL2 but its just too short. Good thing 
 its only 20 bucks.
  
  Gameplay: the best FPS gameplay out there and its just as fun as HL2
  
  Graphics: Just as good 
 as HL2. I didnt really notice the new HDR lighting (orsomthing like that) though
  
  Sound: Great. Good music and great sound effects.
  
  This is a good game worth your $20, but 
 its too short. Dont expect lots of answeres to the story, it makes more new ones then it answeres, 
 but i still cant wait for episode 2. So buy it, but dont expect a long ride 
::::::

::::::
UserName: its_toby
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 12, 2006 4:46 am PT
Review:  I think episode one is the start of great things to come. The only thing that can go wrong with 
 the Half Life Trilogy now is a bizarre twist in the story. Hopefully the Valve team are aware of 
 the risks involved in this matter. Another thing I would like to see is an extension in the episodes, 
 make it 5-6 instead of 3, but make it BIG! Also, introduce more interesting characters (like Father 
 Grigori, Odessa Cubbage) along the way.
  Episode One was a little too short for my liking, not that i did'nt enjoy it, that would be an 
 understatement. Loved the rides in all half-life games (the rail-road in half-life 1, buggy and 
 water-boat in half-life 2 and the car ride in episode one) . Do introduce more crunchy rides and 
 realistic vehicle scenarios. The dialogues were far more enjoyable in episode one, that is also 
 a plus. 
  I have great expectation from Valve.
  Thanks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 10, 2006 1:44 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Same awsomenes of Half-Life 2 but with some new stuff like the physics gun you get for 
 about 1 or 2 levels and new enimies like Zombines, witch is a clever name. 9
  
  Graphics: Im not sure but the graphics look a little bit better in my opinion. Still the best looking 
 game ever. 10
  
  Sound: The voice acting is perfect. This game should win an Emmy for such good voice acting. 10
 
  
  Value: For 20$ its a hell of a ride, but its sorta short. Now im waiting for Episode 2!!! 7
  
 
  Tilt: Definetly buy if your a Half-Life fan!! If your new and have not played Half-Life 2, then 
 you need to be beaten and forced to play Half-Life 2!! 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilazn_boi
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 9, 2006 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 wowed PC and Xbox gamers with its unprecedented visual detail, ferocious run-and-gun 
 action, and gripping storyline that detailed an interdimensional invasion. Episode One is the first 
 of several follow-up adventure episodes designed by Valve for Half-Life 2, and while it satisfies 
 our most immediate appetites, we already crave more.
  
  The game starts right where Half-Life 2 ends, in the bowels of the mysterious Citadel. The first 
 hour of gameplay is a bit of a departure, with traditional gunplay taking a back seat to the overcharged 
 Zero Point Gravity Gun, which lets you fling enemies around like rag dolls. The rest of the game 
 is more conventional, only with a more cooperative bent as you coordinate attacks with teammate 
 Alyx. For the most part, it's exactly what you'd expect, and it's predictably excellent. Half-Life 
 2's action is second to none, and Episode One's furious firefights will still raise your pulse.
 
  
  But if you were hoping that this expansion would shed more light on Half-Life 2's cryptic storyline, 
 keep on dreaming. Taking a cue from Lost, Episode One dances around key plot points while giving 
 very little in the way of new information. There are a few small revelations here and there -- 
 it turns out that the events from the first Half-Life were what gave the alien Combine an opportunity 
 to invade in the first place -- but don't expect to learn more about Xen, the G-Man, or what the 
 Combine really look like.
  
  The game is also quite short: with a runthrough taking between four and five hours, Episode One 
 sometimes feels less like a full-fledged expansion and a bit more like a tide-me-over to Episode 
 Two.
  
  
  The next installment, Episode Two, is rumored to be out by year's end
  The visuals are essentially identical to the ones you remember from late 2004, so even modest PC 
 gaming hardware will see sharp details and solid performance. In general, a Radeon x800 or GeForce 
 6600 GT will provide a very pleasent experience. There's one new graphical frill that should please 
 tech heads: High Dynamic Range (HDR) lighting, which gives the game a softer, more realistic look. 
 But it's strange that the game doesn't look as staggeringly beautiful as the Lost Coast tech demo 
 released a few months back. What happened? 
  
  With few exceptions, Episode One gives you exactly what you'd expect: more Half-Life 2. And in 
 that sense, it's a resounding success. But if you were hoping for new weapons, new tactics, or 
 massive amounts of new enemies, you're bound to be disappointed.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cmgoddard
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 9, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  Valve has come up with a great game with greater cinematic quality and more consistently good gameplay. 
 Gone are the over-long vehicle sequences of Half-Life 2 the original, and what's left is the first-person 
 shooting and puzzle solving that made Half-Life 2 great.
  
  This game is much shorter than Half-Life 2, but to me this is a very good thing. It's nice to have 
 something fun to do during a weekend that has only a slightly higher time commitment than a movie. 
 This game will take only about 5 to 6 hours to complete at the most.
  
  It also seemed that the level design was a little better than in Half-Life 2. The paths that Gordon 
 Freeman must take to move around buildings seems a little more natural than the last time.
  
  The graphics are beautiful too. If your system can handle the High Dynamic Range lighting, 
 it really adds a lot to the game and makes it look brand new. Even older graphics cards (like mine) 
 seem to be able to handle it okay.
  
  I only have a few complaints about the game. First, Episode One doesn't really add on too much 
 to Half-Life 2 but the better graphics and extended story. The textures and environments in the 
 game are pretty much the same as in the parent game. So are the enemies. I only counted 3 new enemies 
 in the game, but 90% of the time you will be fighting old enemies from Half-Life 2. There aren't 
 many people around much either, just you, Alyx, the generic rebel soldiers, and occasionally Barney. 
 You can see Dr. Kliner, Dr. Vance, Judith, and that Black Mesa director on video clips, but it 
 would have been nice to see more of these characters or maybe 1 or 2 new characters in person.
 
  
  Overall it seems Valve is moving in a good direction though, and the story that they are writing 
 is better and more fun to play with than 95% of the game stories out there right now.
  
  This game is definitely worth the $20 to play it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: erik677
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 9, 2006 5:38 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 is a difficult game to talk about. It looks great, gameplay is solid, but it's far 
 too short.
  
  Graphics
  ------------
  Graphically it offers what you would expect from the Source engine and more in the form of HDR 
 lighting if your rig can handle it. The worlds are well constructed and textured but don't really 
 give you anything new - if you completed Half-Life 2 you won't see any environments you havent 
 seen before. Having said that it all looks so good that it would take a long time to get tired 
 of the sheer eye candy that the game engine makes possible. 
  
  Sound
  ---------
  Sound in HL2-Ep1 is excellent, but again it's more of the same thing we had in HL2.
  
  Gameplay
 
  -------------
  Gameplay is really what sets the Half Life series apart from it's challengers and Episode 1 doesn't 
 dissapoint in this regard. The pacing of the game feels just right and moves the story along at 
 a steady speed. There is a good mix of puzzles and regular FPS action that provides a great gaming 
 experience.
  
  Value
  -------
  While the price of this title might be slightly high it will give a few hours of excellent entertainment. 
 
  
  Overall this title extends the Half Life story but like HL2 it throws up more questions than answers. 
 If you like the Half Life series of games you will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: getka1061992
Rating: 1.3
Date: Jul 8, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  First of all episode 1 is too short. I Finish it in 02.54 hours. Gameplay it is not as good as 
 it was in normal Half Life 2. Weapons are all the same, Alxy still wear the same clothes and gordon 
 still dont got shadow or legs, he still can t talk to alxy (does he afraid girls and not zombies 
 - maybe thats his weak spot) , and there are still no mirrors in game to look yourself. i like the 
 begining of the game, because there it is a great ride with that car down. The leavels are not 
 as good as they was in HL2. They are most inside. I really hate that garage house, because it was 
 too dark, and i fell like i am playing Doom3. Zombies are the same except "Zombines" (Zombie kombines) 
 and stalkers. I want to know why alxy cant climb in some vent and turn lights on for Gordon or 
 why doesnt she wear the same suit as Gordon. If she wear that biohazard suit or whatever it is 
 she will have always light on and she wont complain so much.
  I really hope that Half Life 2 Episode 2 will be in the forest like on the movie at the end of 
 Episode 1 and i hope that alxy will finaly die. Anyway player do all the work. She s only ther 
 to complain and slowing you down. Graphic in game it is still the same as in HL2 and water is still 
 ugly. Why they jdont just take Far Cry water and CryEngine? Because i think CryEngine is better.
 
  And one more question. Why Gordon jump fast uphill then downhill?
  
  I really think that this Episodes shuld be free like some patch!!
  
  (sorry for my english) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hckiller
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 7, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  When u start the game for the first time ull normaly see the citadel in al its blown glory.
  U will get a cool intro and see how alyx escapes the explosion at the citadel and how u get freed 
 from the G-man.
  Then u see that dog digs u out of the rubble.
  Alyx is verry happy to see u (even hugs u) and she explanes that they have been trying to
  Contact 
 Eli for hours.
  After that u get a monitor scene and u learn that the citadel can blow anny second.
  The HDR 
 effect is cool in the game makes it look even better then half-life 2 but HL2 never had HDR the 
 facial expressions are upgraded to so u can see the emotions of the NPC`s.
  The bad thing is u have no new weapons in half-life 2 ep 1 and no new vehicles.
  The A. I is alot 
 smarter then in the origenal Half-life 2 they know look more human then they normaly do.
  The A. I of alyx has been upgraded more then other A. I.
  It looks almost like ure playing a CO-OP 
 game.
  But without an other player controlling alyx.
  The game is to short its but its 1/3 of HALF-LIFE 3
  Valve wanted to name it Half-life 3 eppisode 
 1 but that was 24 hours before its release.
  So they left it like it was.
  The battles are intenser then ure used but alyx is along ure side most of the game.
  New is that 
 u can seal antlion burrows using ure gravity gun and trowwing a car on it.
  The gameplay is almost the same as the origenal
  But Valve teases u in the game with the scene 
 where u see juduth in an artic base and a hunter
  Jumps and destroys the camera.
  And the pods in the sitadel that fly out before it blows.
  And the ening is like a normal half-life 
 ening.
  But they give u a teaser trailer at the ending at half-life 2 ep 1.
  The soundtrack is some rock-metal style but it fits in the game.
  
  Plus points.
  +Same gameplay
 
  +The emproved source engine
  +even a low-end PC can run it
  +The new zombine
  
  minors (yes there are minores)
  -the game is to short 3-6 hours
  -no new weapons
  -no vehicles
 
  
  But no revieuw is correct everyone has other trought of half-life 2 ep 1
  Its up to you to buy it or to leave it
  This is a game a FPS fan should have in his/her collection
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PeninhaBR
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 7, 2006 10:56 am PT
Review:  Fiquei esperando a continuao deste jogo e finalmente chegou!
  
  Gostei apesar de ter apenas 5 fase ,gostaria que fosse maior com pelo menos 10 fases.
  
  A 
 parte inicial o desafio de estabilizar o reator foi muito legal, no caminho varios desafios bem 
 feitos.
  
  Achei otima ideia quando o gordon tem que varias vezes buscar os cidadaos para fugir.
  
  Agora 
 tem um zumbi muito maior que ate atira granada e que aguenta mais tiros.
  
  O visual continua otimo como os anteriores esta um pouco mais rapido para carregar de uma fase 
 para outra.
  
  Pena que agora pegou moda de fazer tudo por episodios um exemplo foi guerra nas estrelas, no concordo 
 .........
  
  Bom o jogo esta otimo agora  esperar o 2...... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chic-warmer
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 7, 2006 2:36 am PT
Review:  Just finshed playing thru Ep1. Left me with the same huge smile on my face as HL2 (spoiler: Valve... the 
 endind train thing.... funky: P)
  
  +Same great gameply in shorter doses
  +Nice and shiny new Source Engine
  +Low req.
  +No long boring stretched out sequences AKA airboat 
 of HL2
  +Have someone to kill zombies/combine with! Its AI Co-Op!
  
  -have to admit... its is kinda short
  -steam can be problematic (rarely though:) )
  
  Overall, 
 its upto you to decide if you dont mind paying $20 for around 5hrs of gaming... me i already made 
 the jump and iam quite satisfied. Better 50%of something than 100% of nothing :P
  
  PS
  its got hl2: dm and HL: S DM so if you dont have HL2, its an even better buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hackerdork
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jul 6, 2006 8:21 pm PT
Review:  
  Ya ya beat me up for saying yawn, but I was expecting more out of this game and a much more detailed 
 story line. I know valve is going to make more HL2 based games to show off their engine, but I 
 frankly would like to see a longer game and multiplayer games , than these mini-story games. Its 
 basicly HL2 over and over again, so they can get their engine out, and show us 'look what we can 
 do now'.
  
  I would have like to have seen gord die and let you play the bad guys, or dog. Gord is one bad-ass 
 geek that has outlived Keith Richards drugs. Enough is enough valve, let me play some other charater 
 and blow crap up. I don't want some she-man side kick that knows more about what I'm forced to 
 fight as Gordon. 
  
  Can I get in a truck and run over stuff? Can I smash skulls?
  
  Oh well. Its half life 2, episode I . a reverse timetrip. It looks cool, but its same old crap. 
 jump duck, open , turn , shut, fall and the story just has begun.
  
  Episode I of star wars, sucked. HL2 ep1 came close to sucking if it wasnt for the tasty graphics.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pikashu
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 6, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  Excelente jogo. Mais uma vez a valve supera a si mesma a cada nova srie do HL. Grficos e jogabilidades 
 afiadas. Uma das pouqussimas coisas que na maioria dos jogos no tem  a famosa interao total 
 (ou quase) com o cenrio... mas detalhes  parte, o jogo  viciante! Muito bom! 
  
  Eu sou um dos que sofrem com enjos e dores de cabea se ficar jogando mais que 40 minutos diretos, 
 devido a viso angular ser menor que os demais jogos, e mesmo mudando para uma maior amplitude, 
 sofro do mesmo jeito, e os grficos comeam a fica com viso de olho de peixe, o que no  nada 
 bom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neerajkumar_4
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 6, 2006 12:16 pm PT
Review:  
  HL2: Ep1 :-
  
  By,
  $rpi_g@mr a. k. a Neerajkumar_4 
  
  Introduction:-
  
  This Game is the First Apart of the Hl2: Aftermath series. It a great idea to bring this game into 
 an episodic continuation. So this game is the first part of the episodic series. This game continues 
 exactly from where Half-Life 2 ends and you have to leave CITY 17 as its growing Unstable by the 
 minute passing. Gordon Freeman and Alyx somehow escape the blast and have to exit city 17. Well 
 again jus as usual the game's Mysterious story is yet to be explained properly. The Mysterious 
 G-Man will come only on the starting of the game and will leave after a dialogue. 
  
  Game-play:-
  
  AI is improved from Hl2. Alyx is pretty smart and covers you all the time so 
 that you can figure out how to solve the puzzle. Her voice acting is amazing and her comments are 
 amusing ! As everyone knows Half-Life series has been the game series of Puzzle- Solving and Shooting 
 game, this game has a fast paced action game-play. The funny part is that you get the Crow bar 
 only at the last stage! You start the game with The Anti-Gravity Gun. A new Enemy named 'Zombine' 
 by Alyx will be the one to be watch-out for coz he can do some serious damage with the grenade 
 in his hands and he is a lot faster than other zombies. No news weapons, jus the same from Half-Life2
 
  
  Graphics:-
  
  Amazing graphics even better than its Previous game. The source engine is updated. Character models, 
 the world detail, HDR lighting, etc... are improved.
  
  Sound:-
  
  The sound is amazing, High quality voice acting. Everything sounds realistic.
  
  Conclusion:-
 
  
  The Game will Continue as a episodes for years to come, Hl2: ep2 and Hl2: ep3 will be released before 
 the end of 2007. This game is short and the multi-player package is jus the same as Hl2. But the 
 game is WORTH PLAYING !! This game is like a Big teaser Demo !! You will be left wanting more when 
 you finish the game.
  
  
  About The Game IN SHORT :- 
  
  The GooD : Fast-paced team action game -- Alyx comments and she looks HOT ;) -- Top Class Graphics 
 and Sound -- The Half-life Special and Interesting Cut Scenes.
  
  The BaD : Short Game -- No new Online game -- The Mysteroius Story -- Gordon SPEECHLESS !! 
  
 
  
  Note: "The Half-life Special and Interesting Cut Scenes."
  
  i mean that you can move and interact with the enviroment and no ememies coming to attack you.... jus 
 like the ones in Half-Life Starting and Half-Life "RED LETTER DAYetc.... hope you got it ! :)
 
  
  
  Graphics - 10/10
  
  Sound- 10/10
  
  Gameplay-10/10
  
  Story: 10/10
  
  Overall- 10/10
  
  
 
  Scorpio_gamer:- Remember there is NO such thing as GAME OVER!!
  So keep GAMING.!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FLamezero991
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 6, 2006 8:10 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 episode 1 takes place right after the regular Half-Life 2, and when i say right after 
 I mean directly after the big explosion and everything. Apparently the Gordons save you Gordon 
 Freeman and Alyx from ur near death experiences. So Gordon finds him self in a pile of debree only 
 to be saved by Alyx and Dogg. It turns out you have to go back into the Citadel because the core 
 is about to explode and Alyx took such a long time finding you and other straglers that you cant 
 really get out of the range of the explosion in time. So your only alternative is to repair the 
 core itself , you do so and find your self on the road to the train station to escape City 17 because 
 the reapirs you made on the core won't last forever plus the Combine are after for stealing their 
 plans and then you know how the zombies and the other Aliens are after you as well. There are a 
 few puzzle like situations like putting a car on a bug hole using the gravity gun or getting balls 
 of energy to certain places to power a walk way or any other device.
  
  The Gameplay is one of the best parts of this game, since valve uses the physics engine in such 
 a great way you can pick up a bed with the gravity gun and throwing it at a Zombie or a Combine 
 and they fly across the room, or in one sequence an enemie shoots at the ground u stand it breaks 
 and you fall back. Oh how much I love rag doll physics. But the Physics are as great as Half-Life 
 2. 
  
  The Graphics in this game is phenominal just like the first one, but you may need a powerful computer 
 in order to really experience this game but most computers can handle it.
  
  The overall gameplay in this game is Fantastic its actually better than Half Life 2 ,but the game 
 is just to short. You will be over with this game in just 3 hours 5 hours tops. But I believe you 
 should still get its worth it, also its not even $20 any more its $15 to $8.
  
  Half -Life 2 :Episode 1: Recomended 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattydienhoff
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 5, 2006 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Before I start in earnest, I'd like to say something against all the negatives I've been seeing 
 because "it's too short". First of all, Valve told us before release this was a very short game. 
 It was never intended to be a 90-hour game. Frankly, I would rather have small portions every few 
 months than a full game every 8 years.
  
  Episode One is indeed short, but every second is pure substance, there is no filler which just 
 serves to lengthen it out. Most importantly Episode One doesn't feel rushed, there wasn't a single 
 part of the game where I got the feeling they skimped on details or quality. Absolutely everything 
 is top-notch. THAT is what makes Episode One worth the money. If games were priced by standards 
 of quality, I'd happily pay full price for Episode One.
  
  Now I shall begin.
  
  Story:
  
  Episode One's story picks up right where Half-Life 2 left off, at the top of the 
 Citadel. Needless to say Alyx and Gordon survive the explosion. (I won't say how, though to avoid 
 spoiling anything) The destruction of the Dark Fusion reactor has critically damaged the Citadel 
 and turned it into a time bomb. Which means Gordon, Alyx, and the surviving citizens of City 17 
 must evacuate before the Citadel wipes out the entire city. While the Combine forces have been 
 thrown into disarray by the collapse of much of communication and infrastructure caused by the 
 loss of the Dark Fusion reactor, they're still capable of putting up a fight. To make matters worse, 
 the forcefields holding the Xen wildlife out of the city have gone down, meaning Antlions, headcrabs, 
 and zombies are roaming freely. 
  
  Like Half-Life 2, the story and dialogue are incredibly well written. And on top of that, the top 
 quality voice acting makes the characters amazingly human. It's actually possible to forget Alyx 
 is a computer game character.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Episode One, as a whole, looks very similar to Half-Life 2, especially considering it's set entirely 
 in City 17. The Citadel has a much darker atmosphere now though, with the antiseptic, fluorescent 
 lighting mixed with orange glow from the fires now covering the interior areas of the Citadel.
 
  
  The biggest change in the graphics is, aside from slightly improved textures and models, Valve's 
 new HDR Lighting and Bloom effects first introduced in the Lost Coast technology demo some months 
 ago. This is pulled off beautifully. While the excesses of lighting do sometimes make the graphics 
 look a little too surreal, it's undeniably beautiful.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound in Episode One is at the same standard as Half-Life 2's sound was at it's release. And 
 that is excellent. The weapons are satisfyingly loud. Ambient sound effects are very impressive 
 and do a great job of filling the background with the sounds of a crumbling city. 
  
  The music is just as impressive and does a great job of setting the mood. With slow, eerie tracks 
 for the suspenseful moments, and pulsing, loud and determined music for the combat sequences. It 
 all fits together beautifully with the events.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The best way to describe Episode One''s gameplay is... the best parts of Half-Life 2 with a few 
 extra surprises along the way. It's fresh, exciting, and since it doesn't stay with one theme for 
 too long, it avoids being repetitive. There's actually very little new, with no new weapons and 
 only one new enemy, which is the Zombine, a new form of zombie created when a headcrab takes over 
 an Overwatch trooper. 
  
  The biggest change is, instead of going lone-wolf for most of the game, you spend 95% of the time 
 accompanied by your female sidekick and friend Alyx Vance. Her role and abilities are far expanded 
 from Half-Life 2, she's intelligent and capable, is skilled with tools and weapons, and most importantly, 
 never gets annoying. Her company is actually a blessing rather than a curse, and unlike many NPC 
 companions she's not always nagging you to hurry up. 
  
  The gameplay is hardly dominated by either you or Alyx. You have to work as a team to get out alive. 
 With the kind of challenges you face, you'd die without her and she'd die without you, so you don't 
 have to worry about her stealing all your kills, neither does she need you to do all her bidding. 
 This is AI-controlled co-op, and it works perfectly.
  
  Conclusion:
  
  Strangely, Episode One is a stand-alone game, you don't need Half-Life 2 installed to play it, 
 although you should play Half-Life 2 first to fully appreciate what's happening in the story.
 
  
  Episode One also comes bundled with Half-Life Deathmatch Classic: Source and Half-Life 2: Deathmatch. 
 For multi-player gaming once you've finished the single player.
  
  In closing, you don't even need to be a Half-Life fan to enjoy Episode One. This is gaming at it's 
 finest. If you don't own it already, I strongly suggest you go and correct that injustice right 
 now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerichard
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 5, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 1 is one of the very best first person shooters ever, and the expectations for HL2 where 
 sky high. But Valve amazed us with what is called the first person shooter of the century. The 
 game featured an even more mysterious story, and had a graphics engine to die for. Two years after 
 its release the first episode of the new Half-Life 2 trilogy is here, and it kicks ass!
  
  The game looks very much like the original HL2, but even though it's a little old the graphics 
 engine is awesome. It's been added new lighting effects that makes the game look fresh and new. 
 And it's still awesome playing around with the physics.
  
  Half-Life 2 had some incredible saticfying tunes, with even soothing music in between some fire 
 fights. Episode One has some incredible music, and the first time it occurs I was totally blown 
 away by how awesome this game sounds and plays. The sound effects are the same as in HL2, and the 
 voices are still very good.
  
  The game plays very much like HL2. There are puzzles for you to solve using the physics engine, 
 and there are action scenes you'll remember for a long long time. The game kicks of with only the 
 gravity gun at your disposal. I could have hoped for some weapons here, but it's still very much 
 fun. The game really takes off later on when you meet these combine zombies (or as Alyx says: Zombines!) . 
 The action is amazing and is worth the few bucks alone. The game continues on this track until 
 it suddenly ends all to early. The game is short, and will take you about 4 hours to finish! But 
 the game is cheap, and it's a lot of fun. The game ends with a trailer for Episode Two, which looks 
 bejond anything I could have hoped for. Keep on working Valve, cause we want more! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Code
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 4, 2006 6:51 am PT
Review:  This review will be rather short seeing the game does minor things for the series. This game picks 
 up right where the original left off. *to prevent spoilers* You awake in a pile of rubble where 
 you are soon puuld out by DOg the robot companion of Alyx who happens to be very pleased to see 
 you when your are pulld out. You very soon come to notcie that that the core reactor of the City 
 17 citadel is overloading and is about to explode on a nuclear level. Its up to you and Alyx to 
 stabilize it to buy time and then escape City 17 alive.
  
  Overall its a great opening and the game keeps on the suspense. Alyx is with you at all times *unlike 
 in Half Life 2* and now plays out very mutch like a team based shooter due to the very advanced 
 AI that Alyx has you will sometimes thinking to yourself that this is a co-op game and she is human. 
 There are many moments where Alyx will do one thing while you help and vice versa. Such as you 
 proceeding down a street with zombies coming out she will snipe them while you proceed. They make 
 lots of other events that allow the two of you to help each other and spice up the gameplay. The 
 game is overall very short only about 6 hours of gameplay and is only for the sole purpose of continuing 
 the story in which it does in flying colors along with leaving you with a clip to Episode 2 which 
 will be coming out in the next few months. Graphically the game is just as polishd and smooth as 
 Half Life 2 while also adding in Valves new High Dynamic lighting system *in which my computer 
 could not handle for a logn period of time* th e little i got to see of it was very impressive 
 and makes the lighting look mutch more real and polishd. 
  
  This game is at best a great way to kick off the new episodic series in Half Life while progressing 
 the story it also adds questions and has really got me looking forward to the next installment. 
 While the lack of new weapons and the short gameplay time it doesnt blur the fact this game is 
 a must play for fans of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoJedi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 2, 2006 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Episodic content. This relatively new addition to the gaming world has already gotten it's share 
 of praise and criticism. Some say it's a great innovation that keeps series' fresh and up to date, 
 while others say it's a cheap way to make a profit. As for me, I can safely say that Half-Life 
 2: Episode One is an awesome achievement in episodic content that has left me thoroughly satisfied.
 
  
  Episode One starts off exactly where the original Half-Life 2 ended. After a brief "introduction" 
 by The G-Man, we are plunged right back into the story. Buried under debris, Gordon Freeman, everybody's 
 favorite geek, is found by d0g & Alyx, a bit banged up but still alive.
  Armed with his trusty Gravity Gun and accompanied by Alyx throughout most of the game, Gordon sets 
 out to escape City 17 after the destruction of Dr. Breen... but, naturally, his escape will not 
 go as easy as he might have expected. There are still remnants of the Combine trying to annihilate 
 Freeman and his sidekick... but who's orders are they following? Why are they still pursuing him?
 
  
  If you are looking for answers to those questions, sadly, they will not be answered in Episode 
 One, as Valve still remains as cryptic as ever with their storytelling. This is not to say that 
 the story is bad, far from it actually. The story is still incredibly captivating and follows suit 
 with the original game perfectly.
  
  The gameplay still remains flawless and entertaining. The gun fights are intense, although you'll 
 be armed with only the Gravity Gun for a pretty long while in the beginning before laying your 
 hands on your first gun. But still, when the Gravity Gun is "powered up", it offers a very hard 
 (and satisfying) punch.
  There are some puzzle solving sequences throughout Episode One, although they are not too complicated 
 to solve. Nothing very frustrating here.
  
  But the one thing that stands out with Episode One is how this game immerses you in Gordon's world. 
 Moments that stand out the most for me are numerous and varied:
  - When Alyx hugs you straight at the beginning of the game, you feel as though you are actually 
 reuniting with a long lost friend;
  - When you are fighting you way underground and only have your pocket lamp as lighting. You hear 
 the "zombies" scream in the distance as they make their way towards you in the dark and you actually 
 feel panicked as you frantically look for them;
  - When you are desperately fighting for your life against the Ant Lion Mother as she charges towards 
 you and you are desperately trying to destroy her and escape.
  Those are only a couple of examples, as there are numerous others throughout the game. Valve has 
 accomplished something that is very hard to do in First Person Shooters: make you feel as though 
 Gordon's fate, as well as the rest of his allies, rests on your shoulders.
  
  The artificial intelligence in the game is somewhat varied. The Combine soldiers and walking dead 
 are rather easy to kill and not that much of a challenge. As for the bigger creatures, like the 
 Ant Lion Mother and Strider, they are a little bit harder to handle.
  As for your partner in crime, Alyx Vance, she is quite helpful in some situations, but will get 
 in the way in others. She is a pretty good shot and will take down most of the enemies without 
 much of a fuss, but has some nasty habit of getting in your way when some possessed Combine soldiers 
 with grenades run towards you. But, all in all, she is a big help throughout the game and adds 
 a "human" side to the proceedings.
  
  One bad thing about the gameplay is the loading times. These can get pretty atrocious and long 
 at some points and take you out of the game completely. Naturally, this depends on the type of 
 PC that you own, but still, it would be good if Valve reduced or removed these completely in the 
 next Episode.
  
  The graphics in the game are amazing, as they were in the original Half-Life 2 game. Although there 
 still is a little bit of clipping here and there, the overall presentation is done with class and 
 is a big part of the immersion in the game.
  
  The sound is top notch once again. The voice acting is done with class and superbly delivered by 
 all of the original cast from Half-Life 2. The sounds of the weapons are identical to the original, 
 as are the sounds coming from the various creatures. The Combine Soldiers' radio talk is still 
 awesome to hear.
  I also like the soundtrack within the game. I especially like when it picks up at exactly the right 
 moment, when something major is about to happen.
  
  This game will last you around 6-8 hours, which is pretty good for $20. People might say that it's 
 too short, but I found it just right, although it left me wanting more. There isn't much replay 
 value here, but the game does come with Half-Life 2 Deathmatch, an online multiplayer game which 
 can be fun for a little while but is not the game's strong point.
  
  All in all, Half-Life 2: Episode One is a very immersive and fun game. I highly recommend it to 
 fans of the series and I cannot wait to get my hands on Episode Two this fall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zippyflynn
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 2, 2006 11:50 am PT
Review:  First, you must know I thought Half Life 2 was superb, the first look at the future of gaming. 
 It had beautiful, intricate graphics and was a great deal of fun, with increasingly challenging 
 level of play and new puzzles to solve just about around every new corner. I enjoyed the look and 
 atmosphere of the game so much I would stay in some areas after I "conquered" it just to view and 
 admire the world the Valve team created. What a huge difference between Half Life 2 and the first 
 version! Naturally, I was salivating for the next episode and was very excited once I got it and 
 started playing. And then... it was over. Waaaay too short and nothing new. There were no new challenges 
 in this version, just repeats of the same techniques I had used in Half Life 2. The graphics were 
 nice but it seemed to me not even as good as the first Half Life 2, certainly no improvement on 
 any level, just like the game play itself. As a matter of fact, it fell short of its predecessor. 
 Much like Doom 3's follow-up, Resurrection of Evil, which I think they slapped together too quickly 
 for a quick buck with none of the care and detail of the original (and ripped off the great fun 
 gravity gun) ; Episode 1 was fun in that it was continued game play in arena I liked but I felt 
 like I was in the arena of some poorer relation who was trying hard to pretend to be up to the 
 same level as their more successful cousin but failing as all they did was be an incomplete copy 
 and coming up with nothing new. Also, one of the important elements for me that is missing from 
 Episode 1 that was in the first Half Life 2 was the amount of individual game play, wandering around 
 just as Gordon Freeman in a strange new world which, like the dark and scary solo Doom 3, you feel 
 a lot more tension and vulnerability as well as wonder at seeing a new, dangerous, unexplored world. 
 The first Half Life 2 was an outstanding original, when it was released it was the next level in 
 gaming. Episode 1 is not quite the same old thing and offers nothing new. It's turned into a first 
 person shooter with nothing extra to entertain as splendidly as the first version did so well. 
 Overall, I enjoyed it but was disappointed by its shortcomings and was left wanting much more. 
 Quite frankly, I found it more fun to play the original again, for the umpteenth time, then to 
 go through Version 1 a second time. I guess I'll have to wait another couple of years for a large 
 gaming team to carefully put together something inventive, exciting and new, the next level of 
 gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rencie
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 2, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2: Episode One begins exactly where Half-Life 2 ended off. Unfortunately, the introduction 
 is a bit cryptic. While it tells you what happened to Alyx after the Citadel portal and core exploded, 
 it explains little else. You see yourself released from the G-Mans control, but how and why it 
 happened is not explained anywhere in the opening sequence or in the game. In fact, Episode One 
 answers very few questions raised from playing Half-Life and Half-Life 2. It seems Episode One 
 is setting up for a huge revelation that will occur in future episodes. Because of that, Episode 
 One feels like the icing on top of the cake that is Half-Life 2: its good, but its better when 
 served together with the cake. It feels a bit out of place to have the icing by itself after the 
 cake has already been eaten and digested long ago.
  
  The highlight of Episode One is Alyx, your ally on whom you rely more than she needs you. The artificial 
 intelligence for Alyx is top-notch. Dialogues for Alyx are extremely well-written, subtly yet clearly 
 providing characterization, mission objectives and humour. One of my favourite moments interacting 
 with Alyx is hearing her commenting, Is Dr. Kliener actually telling everyone to get busy? while 
 looking at you half-embarrassingly and flirtatiously.
  
  Alyx is an accomplished warrior, too. She will automatically provide cover and dispose of most 
 threats automatically, and she accomplishes these tasks extremely well. In fact, I found myself 
 not needing to fire my weapon in some situations and Alyx would clear the area of the monsters. 
 In that sense, Alyx is a great companion on the battlefield, but this can also mean making the 
 game a bit too easy at times. (Overall, I found Half-Life 2: Lost Coast more challenging than Episode 
 One.) However, you often have to solve other puzzles or support Alyx during combat. One of the 
 most memorable first-person shooter moments to date involves you lighting the darkness using your 
 flashlight as Alyx mows down endless hordes of zombies. Cooperating with Alyx, is indeed a refreshing 
 addition to the familiar first-person shooter gameplay.
  
  Although Alyx helps you with a lot of the combat, you are still on your own when solving physics/gravity 
 gun puzzles. Compared to Half-Life 2, Episode One has better puzzles that are integrated into combat. 
 My favourite has to be using the gravity gun to clear obstacles that are obstructing Alyxs view, 
 so she can snipe the enemies that are attacking you at that time.
  
  Episode One does not feature any new weapons, vehicles or locales. This is rather unfortunate because 
 the elation of getting the gravity gun, driving the gunboat and dune buggy, and venturing into 
 new environments like Ravenholm in Half-Life 2 were key to making the previous game impressive. 
 Still, Episode One does introduce the Zombine, the zombified Combine soldier. This new monster 
 is deadly, so you will be glad Alyx is often around to help you out. There is a moment or two when 
 levels, such as the hospital in Urban Flight, feel too long, as though the developers made them 
 longer just so that you will get four to six hours of gameplay. All this thus makes Episode One 
 a better denouement to Half-Life 2 than the beginning of something new. It seems as though the 
 game will play better overall if it is shortened slightly and is part of the original Half-Life 
 2. Not only would then would there be a more satisfying conclusion to Half-Life 2, but also a more 
 cohesive gaming experience.
  
  Nonetheless, it is Valves fine-tuning of what worked in Half-Life 2, better integration of puzzles 
 into combat, as well as combat and interaction with Alyx that make Episode One a great game. While 
 not as memorable as it predecessors, Episode One does have its shining moments and promises better 
 things to come in future episodes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pezzer123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 1, 2006 8:44 am PT
Review:  This is one of those games that you buy and complete over the weekend.
  It is an extremly short game, however this is made up for in gameplay.
  
  This is the start 
 of a nice episodic story, pitting Gordan against the Combine.
  
  The story sees you, Gordan Freeman, joining Alix just after the explosion in the Citidal. Aliz 
 is very happy to see you and you join up to escape city 17.
  You start off by actually heading back into the citidal to shut down the core and give you a bit 
 of time to escape.
  
  [more to come - this is brief start] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amir_Badshah
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 15, 2007 12:13 am PT
Review:  After the Valve team successfully their Half-life 2 game, they were ready to continue it.
  As you see, half life 2 was only a start of the story.
  It is now the real story begins..
  
 Half-life 2 episode one.
  
  Yeah, many objectives and stuff is the same some those in Half-life 2.
  But, of course they've 
 maded many more things: Maps, HDR maps and so on...
  There are some cool effects, in the game now which makes the game better...
  Many of these effects 
 aren't included in the Originally HL2.
  
  Almost everything in Episode one is New!
  The story is changed, now it's time to get out of City 17.
  And the character (Alyx) fells more 
 real then before.
  And as you may notice that Barney is to busy to get shaved! :D
  
  There are coming more Episodes..
  And if you want to continue with the story?
  Then you have 
 to play, and finish, all those coming Episodes!!
  Just like seeing a program on the TV!
  
  But, there is many cool scenes in the game!
  Many!!!!
  And the Acting in the game is in 
 Top class!
  Top class!!!!
  And the Story is maked TOO AWESOME!!!
  TOO AWESOME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  But, the only and ONLY negative thing i noticed is...
  
 
  That the game is too short............: (
  I completed it at the same day i bought it man!!!!
  
  (sorry everyone, but i had to say that! 
 ^^^)
  ....
  
  But, as i said...
  
  EXTREMELY PERFECT!!!
  NO MAN, MORE THEN PERFECT!!!!
  130% !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  (I didn't say 120% ;) ) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellraisinkilla
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 30, 2006 9:35 am PT
Review:  Half life 2 Episode 1 follows Gordon Freeman as he with Alyx tries to escape city 17 as it prepares 
 to blow up. You r first supposed to slowdown the reactor b4 u make it out of the city.
  
  The source engine works wonders with the gameplay & graphics of the game (much like HL2) . But what 
 seperates EP.1 from HL2 is Alyx. The game is much more engaging with Alyx lending a human side 
 to the otherwise monotonous gameplay. Voice acting of all the characters are excellent and controlled. 
 Alyx does doesn't talk too much or very little. just the right lines at the right places. 
  So is the AI response. Alyx covers ur back enough for you to engage and enjoy the game rather than 
 labouriosly killing all that comes your way. the first few levels inside the citadel are just like 
 HL2. Personnally I enjoyed the levels startin from 'Urban flight' as u make ur way to the train 
 station through a completely annihilated City 17.
  
  I found a lot of the players complaining about the game being too short. I found it better than 
 the long and thickly plotted HL2. I think it helps to eliminate game fatigue.
  
  the final wordBUY IT!
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serialkillajoe
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 29, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  
  This to me is the best Half life Expansion pack to date. All the other expansion packs like Blue 
 Shift , Oposing force have nothing on this. This game includes Half life 2 : EP1, Half Life 1 Deathmatch 
 Source and Half life 2 deathmatch for only 20 bucks!. That has to be one of the best small game 
 Exspansion packs in a long time. 
  
  The Grahpics are simply amazing. On my computer the grahpics on defualt are all on high and there 
 stunnig to look at. Just sometimes it feels like they need more texrtures in the envirorments like 
 in Half Life 2.
  
  The Sound is Extroidinary. The voice Acting is stellar and the sound is just perfect . Meaning 
 there is defineltly Nothing Wrong wtih the sound in this game.
  
  The Gameplay in this game is also awsome. It seems like in every room there is a puzzle to figure 
 out. The Gameplay is awsome. You need to have least played Half life 2 and beaten it to understand 
 this one.
  
  Finnally this game might even be better than half life 2 when all the epsiodes come out. Anyway, 
 This game is a must buy. 
  
  9.4 
  
  You also dont even need half life 2 to buy it b
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hungfar
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2006 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2: Episode 1 is the first of several "expansions" for 2004's Half-Life 2 which, as you 
 know if you played through it, ended in quite a "WTF!" cliffhanger. Episode 1 picks up right where 
 HL2 left off, so it's more of a continuation than an expansion. There's nothing really new about 
 it in regards to weapons or environments, but we do get ... Alyx. 
  
  Alyx, a main character from the previous installment, is by your side for almost the whole experience. 
 And she is freaking awesome. She is quite possibly the most emotive and smart NPC we'll run across 
 for quite some time. She doesn't get in the way, her dialog is well written and acted, she helps 
 with the enemies A LOT, and she's not too bad on the eyes to boot for not being a typical gaming 
 heroine. 
  
  As far as presentation and gameplay go it's 100% identical to HL2, which is to be expected. You 
 do a lot of the same things you did before but somehow it still feels fresh (at least to this reviewer) . 
 There is one new enemy which is the grenade-wielding Combine Troop Zombie or "Zombine". Even on 
 my admittedly pitiful rig the visuals are still impressive. One great thing about HL2 was that 
 it was so forgiving as far as system requirements go. The same applies here.
  
  And the story... well, it's still not wrapped up but Episode 1 is engaging, even if there's not 
 much actual advancement in regards to the plot. 
  
  Bottom line: if you enjoyed HL2, don't hesitate to get Episode 1. It is a bit short (about 4 or 
 5 hours my first time through) but is arguably more enjoyable than HL2 due to the awesome job Valve 
 did bringing Alyx to life. Definitely worth $20 in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkfear2222
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 26, 2006 2:20 am PT
Review:  When my eyes landed on the loading screen of Episode 1, I was excited and to get into the action. 
 I click "New Game" and stare at the loading screen and a Black screen appears. I hear Alex talking 
 and I go on to see a very friendly robot face. (Dog) . With a great introduction, the game never 
 lets you go if its continuing story line and beautiful graphics. In Episode 1, they Showed off 
 all the new HDR (High Dynamic Range) effects everywhere they could. To say the least the lighting 
 was incredible and it added a much more dramatic look to the game.
  
  Sound was very strong and it also helped draw you into the action, With great voice acting, sound 
 effects and Moans from burning Zombies& the new Zombines!
  
  Gameplay is what you would expect from Half-Life, Some run and gun mixed with Puzzel solving with 
 your trusty Gravity gun. A new idea they put into play in Episode 1 is to have Alex help you throughout 
 most of the game, If its covering you while your reloading, fighting against a horde of zombies 
 or Alex giving you sneaky hints, Will give you more of a relationship with Alex and see that they 
 are a great team that will work together to overcome their odds.
  
  The only downside is that Episode 1 is pretty short, but well worth the $20.00 for a solid 3-5 
 hours of gameplay and then playing it again for the commentary.
  
  Now that I brought up the Commentary, Valve first introduced the Commentary into their Half-Life2: Lost 
 Coast map that was downloadble through steam. It had commentary throughout the whole map untill 
 it was over and It was very interesting and entertaining. So they did it with Episode1, Learning 
 how they pulled off some tricks was pretty cool and getting the producers thoughts and ideas on 
 how some areas were designed and creatures will fought. 
  
  A Very solid game to play to lead you on to the Next Chapter in the Half Life 2 Series. Must Buy 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x6ItDiesToday6x
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  This game, although short, is more than worth it's $19.99 price tag. It is definitely up to snuff 
 with Half-Life 2. I thoroughly loved it, every moment of it. I can NOT wait for Episode 2 to finally 
 come out (it is rumored to release in October) ! To be able to understand the story, you must play 
 Half-Life 2 first, which is just as awesome, only a lot longer. But trust me, it's worth the play-through. 
 If you're gonna spend $70 or a little bit more than that on games, get Half-Life 2 and Half-Life 
 2: Episode One. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L33tBudDha
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 25, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  The good:
  
  1) Graphics, Sound, & Gameplay: I group all of these into one because this is essentially the same 
 game as Half-Life 2. They are all great but I don't feel like spending the time rewriting their 
 reasons for being great. If you want to know them please refer to my review of Half-Life 2.
  
  2) Story: For an expansion/add-on the story works well. The story in Half-Life 2 was a negative 
 in that you have no idea what the h3ll you just did but you know you had a blast doing it. In Episode 
 One you at least have a clear and understandable story line. The missions is simple, get out of 
 Dodge! The building's going to blow and you need to get out along with the remaining few people.
 
  
  The bad: 
  
  1) Game time: I realize this is a simple add-on but for $20 I would have liked to have received 
 more than an hour / hour and a half of gameplay.
  
  2) Challenge: This was not a very challenging group of missions. They also don't throw anything 
 new at you in the way of enemies, traps, gadgets, or puzzles.
  
  The ugly: - Found no bugs my once over.
  
  Overall: 
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode One is good 
 but after playing the game it "feels" like they took the last few scenes of the game and hacked 
 them off so that later they can see another wave of money flow in. This is probably not the case 
 but again I said it "feels" like it is. The ultimate way to judge this add-on, expansion, or episode 
 (whatever you want to call it) is to see how it would have changed your opinion of the master game 
 Half-Life 2. Episode One, had it been the ending of Half-Life 2, would have improved the game slightly. 
 The ending would have been better than the abrupt ending to a very "what the heck happened here?" 
 kind of story. I think $9.99 would have made me a lot happier with this release than double that 
 which it is.
  
  Bottom line is this is Half-Life 2 and all of us who love the series will get it. A review on this 
 game is almost pointless! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: msmmos
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 25, 2006 11:10 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 Episode One is a very short game it take me less than 4 hours to end the game but the 
 graphics is very good and i think the game is easy to play with minor bugs but ok... now gameplay 
 is good made i like everything , but you got crowbar in allmost and of the game ,but gordon withaut 
 crowbar ....? good thing was that alice helped you to kill ,but she never died ...
  
  I really don't think any game of this length is worth $20 but I bought it from Circuit City for 
 $7.99 which is definetly a good price for more HL2 action
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: payne6705
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 25, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  this is a sequel to half-life 2 the good news is if you don't have half-life2 then you can still 
 play this game the bad news is the game isn't that long the game takes right after HL2 and contiues 
 on you still have all the weapons from Hl2 also the crontrols are the same there are no new moves 
 so you can just go straight into the game and sadly only one new enemy but remember how in HL2 
 the long load times and literally stop in the middle of the level to load and then again after 
 the load then once again it loads etc etc well in this game thats been changed around a bit not 
 that much loading and it doesn't take as much time as it used to the game is great in everyway 
 there is no cut scences but some of the things i saw actually made me gasp and smile (which i rarely 
 do playin video games) and of course the gravity gun is back and just as useful as before and ofcourse 
 it leaves you off in a cliff hanger i really enjoyed this game its short but fun and you will probably 
 play it again and catch somethings you missed when you first played it also it comes wit Half life 
 1 death match which is bascially the multiplayer to Half life1 and comes with Half-life2 deathmatch 
 which is you kill each other as Half-life2 people 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theo657
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 24, 2006 8:27 pm PT
Review:  every thing about it was great but could of been longer but i can't wait for episode two. this 
 game is worth getting and if you loved half life two then u must get this and play it. and the 
 best part is that alex is with u almost the hole time. i wonder if it will end by episode three 
 or if they will make a halfl life three and i wonder if they will make half life two from a diffrent 
 persons point of view. the learning curve isn't much because it is the exact same controls as half 
 life two so not much to learn about the controls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Pro-Link-
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 23, 2006 8:33 am PT
Review:  Graphics  While the graphics in this game are pretty much the same as Half-Life 2. Although I 
 did notice that most of the items and things have a little more detail. I couldnt believe it when 
 I saw a strider for the first time in this game. The way it moved so smoothly, and sleekly was 
 very nice. The movements even better then its predecessor, and I was amazed when I first saw that.
 
  
  Gameplay  The gameplay is pretty much the same as its predecessor also. Although I did notice 
 that the AI is a lot better. The AI in this game show emotions. At one point I forgot I was playing 
 a gameBut then it ended and I felt like I needed yet another video game. The interactivity is 
 so nice, I love the fact that nearly everything is able to be picked up. Although I did notice 
 one flaw in all of this, the AI are always getting in your way! I swear, if I counted all of the 
 times that I got stuck in a door because of one of them, it would go well over 25.
  
  Sound  The sound/music is really nice. Everything you do has a sound to go with it. Whether it 
 be closing a door to opening one, or just walking to running. There is something different for 
 everything. But the thing I did not like is that I need mood music. The only time you hear any 
 music is in tight/tense situations. I would really like to see music almost all of the time in 
 Episode Two.
  
  Story  The story is fantastic! But whats that? Its too short! It only offers about 5  6 hours 
 of gameplay. I would have preferred to wait for Episode Two, and have them merge the two games. 
 But despite the short story, the story of the game is nice. The thing about the core blowing up 
 kept me glued to this game. At first I thought for sure I would go in there, and the core would 
 blow up. The whole time it kept me wondering what was going to happen next.
  
  Overall  Well even though the story was short, and the AI were sometimes buggy. I give this game 
 a 9.7. I bought this game about one week after it came out, and I thought for sure this game wouldnt 
 be all that great. But boy was I wrong. I have beaten it twice since then, and I will continue 
 to play and beat it countless more times.
  
  I hope this helped you decide whether or not youre going to get this game. Or maybe you just felt 
 like reading someone elses opinion on the game. But I hope this helped for whatever reason you 
 read it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElectricBlue17
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 23, 2006 6:07 am PT
Review:  A. I - The A. I for Alyx is MUCH improved in Episode I. Rarely did she ever stand in my way or run 
 off to die without me, she always played as though I was playing co-op with another human so that 
 was a nice change. Unfortunately this A. I didn't find it's way to the other NPC's in the game who 
 are still brain dead and found simple pathfinding from a platform to the ground to be most challenging. 
 So maybe Alyx was scripted? I dunno some parts maybe, but if that's scripting I don't mind it, 
 in fact I prefer it.
  
  Graphics - pretty much identical to HL2.
  
  Sound - The sound effects mostly stayed the same but the music for Episode I is alot better than 
 in the main game. It plays at the right times right before entering battle and is very.... i dunno... 
 cool sounding. The machine gun reports at the end of the game across that big field was really 
 cool, sounded like a real gunfight in the open.
  
  Story - The atmosphere and plot and theme are basically ESCAPE. The whole game is about escaping 
 from City 17 and the citadel. It does a good job of conveying that. It has a few scary parts that 
 are kinda scary. They managed to keep out of that "oh wow this is an interesting game mechanic, 
 lets repeat it 400 times to lengthen the game a little" which was a big problem for me in HL2. 
 I kinda wish they had just a little more after the citadel (finally) explodes but whaddagonnado.
 
  
  Value: I really don't think any game of this length is worth $20 but I bought it from Circuit City 
 for $7.99 which is definetly a good price for more HL2 action.
  
  "that would make him a zombine, right?" 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxgangsta
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 23, 2006 3:05 am PT
Review:  well i gues its good game but very short ... I played few hours only , its like hl2 but a lil bit 
 better , well if episode 2 and 3 will be like episode 1 well i gues time played those 3 episodes 
 will be like half life 2 they just could create one long good hl and thats all , but ok... now 
 gameplay is good made i like everything , but you got crowbar in allmost and of the game ,but gordon 
 withaut crowbar ....? good thing was that alice helped you to kill ,but she never died ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rahul_becks23
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2006 2:20 am PT
Review:  Ok, after playing E1, i have been left in a state that does more to you than HL2 did.
  I can explain it in pts. here-
  
  1. The graphics, gameplay,..... are better than before.
 
  2. Alyx is beautiful than before.
  3. AND the ending will leave u begging for more than before.
  
  The most important part of 
 the game is that u get to see the Hunter synth and the Advisor (pods) which u will only fight in 
 Episode two and later.
  
  -Play this game and it will leave u asking for more.
  -This is the most interesting release from Valve.
  -There is an ending cutscene that reveals 
 some aspects of Episode 2. Its a gr8 way to end a gr8 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Craig_J
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 23, 2006 2:19 am PT
Review:  This is a kickA$$ game, no question. Half life 2 was a brilliant game, but there were not enough 
 moments where you really get to interact with other characters, well this game has sorted out that 
 problem by having Alyx with you for practically all the game, and she is amazing. Her AI is good 
 and rarely lets you down, she almost never gets in your way and is very useful when the only weapon 
 you have is the gravity gun in the first few levels. The game also really makes you feel for Alyx, 
 she cries, she laughs and does everything a human in a game should do, her facial expresions are 
 very lifelike and emotional, possibly one of the most emotionally involving games ever brought 
 out. The gameplay still rocks (as always) and there are some really coos puzzles, no thing too hard 
 but some reasonably clever physics puzzles along with some more conventional "find the switch" 
 type puzzles, Alyx will drop some hints too if you can't figure out a puzzle. Graphics are still 
 brilliant after two years and the added HDR lighting adds to the already impressive realism and 
 depth of this game. Sound too is really excellent with some clever parts of the game using surround 
 sound to tell you where enemies are. This game is short, but then at 15 pounds approx who expected 
 it to be long? For a first episode it really was brilliant. And the very end is absolutely mind 
 blowing, I won't give anything away but WOW!!!. If that doesn't give you incentive to complete 
 this game then I don't know what will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolhZ
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 22, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  I'm a little surprised at the generally very positive feedback this add-on has garnered. While 
 the second half is easily as good or better than anything in Half-life 2, the first half is just 
 terrible - a rehash of the last part of HL2 (which I felt was the worst part) . And yes, it's too 
 short..
  
  That second half of the episode is so good, that I almost forgot how bad the first part was. If 
 you are a huge fan, then it's worth the 20 bucks, but if you can wait, I think it would be better 
 to just pick it up at the same time as episode 2 (at a discount I'm sure) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soadnick947
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 22, 2006 11:04 am PT
Review:  I can't believe some of the feedback I'm hearing about this game. I thought it was completely amazing. 
 Here's why...
  
  Gameplay: Perfect. Absolutely stunning how much thought and work was put into this game. A lot 
 of times there's battle scenes where Alyx is at your side plowing away the combine with you and 
 it feels very natural and not robotic. That's one word I have to say about Gameplay and that's 
 "natural".
  
  Graphics: One thing I love about the Source engine (Half-Life 2, Half-Life 2 Episode One, Counter-Strike 
 Source, Day of Defeat Source, etc.) is its system requirements. You get a lot of these games today 
 that require SO much new hardware that it's rediculous. The guys at Valve just know how to develop 
 this game for EVERY gaming machine, new and old. THAT just truly blows me away. Of course, having 
 the hottest new machine out there helps this game out so much better, but just the fact that you 
 can get this game running on virtually every gaming machine out there is two thumbs way up for 
 me.
  
  If you got the hot rod of the PC's out there, you won't be disappointed. One new thing Valve has 
 incorporated in this release of the Half-Life series is HDR (High Dynamic Range) lighting, something 
 people have been talking about for a long time. You may have seen HDR in games like Counter-Strike 
 Source, The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, Day of Defeat Source, etc. HDR really benefits your game 
 very much and you have a very good enjoyable experience for the eyes AND the gameplay. HDR, from 
 what I can incorporate, is how lighting is effected by the human eye. For example, you walk out 
 from a cave (or your basement) :winky: and walk out into the sunlight, it appears brighter than 
 what it is, but eventually your eyes adjust to the light and it appears normal. This is a very 
 awesome way of setting the next level in graphics and effects gameplay. For instance, if you're 
 in a fight with the combine or a strider, your vision isn't perfect and makes it a chalenge to 
 fight, adding realism. The HDR is very natural. There's also Bloom lighting if your graphics card 
 can't handle it.
  
  One other thing I wanted to touch on before moving onto sound was the "recommended for your hardware" 
 thing that Valve has. It sets your settings to what they think will make the game run the best 
 without losing any performance. I think that is really cool because whenever I go into a game I 
 don't know what to set my settings to because I don't know how much the game stresses my hardware. 
 Nice touch Valve.
  
  Yes, and the game just looks beautiful, models and textures and all.
  
  Sound: I thought this 
 was a really cool and fresh idea they did this time around and that was commentary. Since the game 
 is shorter than your average First Person Shooter, another way to add to the game's length is turning 
 this on (along with turning the difficulty to Hard, which I recommend you do if you've had any 
 experience with First Person Shooters) . The creators from Valve talk about the game in depth from 
 bugs and glitches they encountered during the game to how they wanted something to appeal to the 
 player. This really shows how talented these guys are at Valve. This was a VERY interesting feature 
 and well worth a 10 in my book for sure.
  
  For the rest of the sound, it was very excellent. You could hear that City 17 and the Citadel was 
 crashing and dying ver well and got the sense as if it were really happening. I only have two speakers, 
 so I didn't get the full effect people would with a surround sound system, but it still sounded 
 totally awesome.
  
  The voice acting is well worth a 10 as well. If you go through the commentary like I talked about 
 earlier, you could hear the creators talking about how they didn't want Alyx to sound mean but 
 friendly and things like that. Barney sounds like a real person in this one. The voice acting is 
 dead on excellent.
  
  Value: This game is short. I'll get that out of the way. But that's what it's an episodic release. 
 I give it an 7 because it also comes bundled with Half-Life 2 Deathmatch and Half-Life Source Deathmatch 
 that can keep you busy for a good while.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: I had a ball with this game and I recommend it to anyone who wants a captivating 
 experience in a First Person Shooter. This is just amazing. I haven't had that much fun in a single 
 player game since... well Half-Life 2.
  
  
  
  And guess what. It's better than Half-Life 2, what more do you want? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: United_We_Fall
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 22, 2006 12:49 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game for a long time now since i am a huge fan of the half-life series 
 yet i cant say that this game really satisfied me as a whole... First due to the arsenal it provides 
 you with (there are no new weapons) and second due to how short this game is. Ok, i cant say though 
 that it's a total letdown since u do have some good times with... Alyx. 
  The only improvement that i find in this game from the (original) half-life 2 is Alyx. In all the 
 chapters of the game Alyx is always next to ya for backup.
  The graphics of this game... eee.. cant say that there are a lot of improvements. Only the textures 
 are a lot smoother and there are better lightning effects but that's about it.
  The sounds are incredible (cant argue about that) ... and the gameplay is just like the older version. 
 
  I'd recommend this game to almost every hardcore gamer as it really gives u a sense of a gaming 
 experience you cant easily find (Alyx is the main reason!!) .
  Also, no vehicles are used in episode one which is a real bummer... but i still enjoyed playing 
 the game due to (as i already said) Alyx and of course the storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: l33tdaedalus
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 21, 2006 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2: Episode One is a fantastic game that manages to build and improve upon the formula 
 laid down in Half-Life 2. It provides many interesting experiences and challenges in this short, 
 but action-packed game.
  
  Episode One starts off right where the previous game left off. Though not everybody is bound to 
 like the opening sequence, it does provide the necessary link between Half-Life 2 and Episode One. 
 What follows is a journey through the ruins of City 17, which is going to be devastated by the 
 citadels self-destruct sequence.
  
  Gameplay: Like its predecessor, Episode One involves a mix of shooting and problem solving. During 
 one moment, youll be finding yourself shooting hordes of zombies with your shotgun, and then have 
 to manipulate wrecked cars with your gravity gun during the next.
  
  The challenge in Episode One has been kicked up enough to make a noticeable difference. For the 
 most part, the number of enemies has been increased. Additionally, some familiar enemies from the 
 first game fight you on different terms in Episode One, forcing you to think of different strategies 
 to take them down. It is a refreshing change from Half-Life 2, in which most battles could be won 
 using the same strategy.
  
  That said, I have a couple of complaints. There is an escort sequence in the game that got old 
 after a short time, and some players may find themselves frustrated at not having a weapon besides 
 the gravity gun for such a period of time. For the most part, however, the gameplay is excellent.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics for Episode One are nearly identical to Half-Life 2, which is starting to 
 show its age. However, the details of the facial expressions merits mentioning and it helped to 
 inject some life into the characters.
  
  Sound: Episode One sounds great, with good environmental sounds, explosions and gunfire during 
 battle, and the occasional phrase from Alyx. I laughed when I heard her yell, oh snap! after 
 a zombie had been head-shot.
  
  Value: I knew what I was getting into when I bought an episodic game, but that doesnt entirely 
 negate the feeling of shortness once I was through (thats it?) . Additionally, aside from two 
 new enemies (one of which is only around briefly) , there isnt much new stuff to see in this Episode. 
 However, the addition of a commentary mode is an extremely positive one, and I look forward to 
 the feature in new titles Valve produces.
  
  Overall, Episode One is a good game that shows that episodic games can be great after all. Lets 
 hope Valve continues to produce games like this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JamboBond
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 21, 2006 6:26 am PT
Review:  This game is for all those who were board with half life 2.
  This the first of the three episodes to be released by valve software over the coming months adds 
 a fair bit to the underlying story which runs through out the half-life universe, but as always 
 it creates more questions than it answers, eps 1 is mainly setting up the situation for the following 
 episodes. it depicts Gordon and Alex's journey out of city 17, with the citadel ready to blow at 
 any minute its a race against time to get out of the city, the g-man has lost control of Gordon 
 and is now imprisoned, it remains to be seen for how long!! 
  In terms of gameplay eps 1 is simply revolutionary not only is it fast paced and exciting, and 
 valves so called "single player co-op" adds a whole new dimension to the genre, dispute all of 
 its good quality's hl2 could be very tedious at times, and also far too easy, with eps 1 there 
 isn't a hint of boredom to be found, in eps 1 you play along side Alex Vance you friend from hl 
 2 you have to work together to solve puzzles and Battle your way out of the city, however you cant 
 just really on Alex to do all the work, is no longer invulnerable and dies much easer, also she 
 is not such a good fighter any more, some people really didn't like this single player co-op idea 
 but i found it to be a fantastic idea.
  The source engine has been updated and new additions to the graphics repertoire such as HDR (high 
 dynamic range) have greatly improved the look of the worlds, also this game is far less demanding 
 on the system than hl2 and runs much better as a result.
  
  Although short only taking me 5 hours on hard the first time i played it, it has allot of replay 
 value and the commentary system (as seen in the lost cost) add a new dimension to the game containing 
 over 160 comments from developers and project leaders!!!
  
  this game is definitely up there with the original half-life
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hardcoreforever
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 21, 2006 5:25 am PT
Review:  Great fast paced action, awesome graphics and fun times. Givin the fact that Episode ones length 
 leaves something to be desired, it is a very fun and worthwile experience. If you enjoyed HL2's 
 original campaign and ended up tearing your hear out at the end then by all means give this game 
 a go. 
  The familiar cast returns and you get to tag along with Alyx most of the way.
  Don't worry though the AI is smart and she has deadly aim, this is one game I actually didn't mind 
 having to babysit a npc.
  
  What is really great is that you wont even need the original to play it, 
  It also comes packed 
 with HL2 deathmatch all on one DVD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GromHellskream4
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 20, 2006 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 episode1- (holy crap thats a long name, From now on ill call it Ep1) is the sequel to 
 HL2. Dont beconfused with the orignal HL because it has a 1 in its title. As i had to go to three 
 diferent stores because they didnt know what i was talkin about and kept handing me HL1. But i 
 digres, it basically picks up exactly where HL2 ended, You are still the ever mysterious and a$$ 
 kicking Gordon Freeman, you are still fighting some HL1 favorites like the headcrabs and the headcrab 
 zombies (the orignals and some with a slight twist) and from HL2 You still have to fight for the 
 Rebels and free yourselfs from the opressive Combine. Many people complained about the story in 
 HL2 that it didnt tie up loose ends. I think that it just carried the loose ends to be tied up 
 later, The story is 1 of the main reasons i play this wonderful game and if you get into it should 
 be 1 of yous too. 
  You start off being literaly diged out of the rumble of the 1nce opressive combine empire City 
 17. the City is now in ruins because of you and on the brink of nuclear disaster, and you and your 
 partner Alyx (that 1 that hangs around Gordon) must get back inside the Combine HQ and stop it 
 from exploding (at least for a while) .... There is all the postitives of gameplay from HL2 upgraded 
 with some much needed tweeks. Such as the A. I. is increbibly smarter than in HL2. This game is 
 alot more difficult but is still fun to play. There are some physics puzzls but not as many as 
 HL2 (im only 1/2 way thru the game so dont take my word) but the fighting is the same and the mechanics 
 of HL2 are the same. All the old weapons are there but there is some new enemies. Like the combine 
 zombie. basically a coupla combine guys got attacked by headcrabs and they turned into the basic 
 zombie except strong, Faster, and has live s they like to hold in the air and charge in your direction. 
 Ther are many missions with Alyx instead of the origninal missions alone like the previous HLs. 
 and i must say shes not completely useless. She cant die so no "Leon protects Ashely" kinda thing 
 and she never runs out of bullets (lemme remind you, that YOU do. Even with Alyx the creepy atmosphere 
 from "RavenHolm" still remains in many levels and i enjoy it immesely. There is some team based 
 shooter missions like at the end of HL2 but theres not and over abundance of them either. Overall 
 the gameplay is suberb. 
  Like Gamespot sayd it is surprisingly short bcuz VALVe decided to release the rest of the series 
 in small episodes. But i do not feel the need to count this game down on account of the size of 
 the game. because the price is also knocked down as well. Graphics are still stunning and sound 
 is wonderful. Voice acting is the best ive ever seen on any game and for 20 bucks this game is 
 a bargin. All in All i have no idea WHY THIS GAME WASNT HYPED UP LIKE HL2! it took me forever to 
 find it and no one knew what i was talkin about. But this is a great game and play it by any means 
 necessary. Also comes wit HL1 HL2 match Basically Arcade blow em ups with HL weapons, Fun for a 
 while but then i jsut went back to Red Orchestra and Counterstrike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djwglpuppy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 20, 2006 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I normally don't write reviews on gamespot, but I have to write one for Episode 1. I could not 
 stop playing the game! The sound and graphics are great. I just got an XPS 1710 with the 7900 512 
 MB Video Card and it looks and plays fantastic on my 1920 * 1200 resolution. (I use this game to 
 brag to my friends about my new system) I can't wait to see what is in store for Episode 2! The 
 graphics are very similar to Half Life 2 (original) but they really upped the sound on this one 
 (lots of oomph with the weapons) ... I also recommend the game just for the altered gravity gun 
 (you can now grab and use Enemies as projectiles (That is one of the coolest weapons in a game 
 I have ever seen!) . Go to steam and download it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gibbie99
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 20, 2006 11:55 am PT
Review:  The game picks up where you left off in HL2. While not spoiling the plot, at least half of the 
 game is at the Citidal, equiped with only your gravity gun. No running and gunning here. An endless 
 series of puzzles awaits you, which just get repeative and boring after a while. Finally you emerge 
 and get some weaponry, but there isn't that sense of urgency and playing with a team like in HL2. 
 I'm only about half-way through the (short) episode so I can't comment on the second half. First 
 one though is duller than dirt. I like the episodic nature but i'd rather replay HL2 than shuffle 
 through this first epsiode.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xnon1
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 20, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  This game to me was fun and i didn't put to much thought in the length of it i played 2 levels 
 a day then 1 the next and so on so maby that's what made me not care as to how long it was which 
 most people seem to have a problem with .I guess if they had added ''one more level'' it would 
 have apeased more gamers i deffinitely wouldn't have complained, but to me the price seemed right 
 .Anyways this game is a continuation of the last and it's what you'd expect and more, the weapons 
 still sound awsome and pack a punch and you need them to take down those hybrid headcrabs there 
 alittle tougher than the basic ones .My favorite area was the hospital running and gunning down 
 the hallways never gets boring and having Aleyx by your side helps a lot ,she's a great npc in 
 the game . The look of the game is great although i didn't see to much of a difference from H/L2 
 but if i played it just before this new one i'd probably would have noticed the better HDR . No 
 real complaints here with this, if i was to nit-pic ,Gordan still seems to ''slide'' a little when 
 running and when you come to a stop i noticed it more when your near a ledge as you tap your ''W'' 
 key it's like he's on skates ? Overall a terrific game , great sound ,never had any crashes ,a 
 very well made game. Cant wait for the second one . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkeyboy070
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 19, 2006 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Bought this from target, I like to have hard copies on disk. Took 20 minutes to install and I have 
 no idea why! ONce it was done steam updated and unlocked it. I hate steam, I think the idea is 
 good for easy updating and stuff like that but the unlocking thing is stupid and useless. Enough 
 people have cracked it just to piss off valve. 
  
  Once I started the game I saw the same old source graphics engine, it looks good and it looks like 
 they bumped up the detail as well. Looks good. The game story picks up fairly quickly where you 
 left off and throws so more mystery into the mix. The terain and darkness of the area really beggins 
 to play a big part in the action, not to mention you have alex following you the whole time. It 
 takes a doom 3ish feel when you are restricted to only flashlight power that can and will run out. 
 All that tech and the hazard suit has limited battery power for the flash... wtf?
  
  OF course you have a standard of puzzles that come using both your wits and the havoc physics engine. 
 Same fun type of game you expected from hl2 but with a few twists. The black head crabs are faster 
 and more deadly and also there are combine zombies now, and they tend to run at you with grenades, 
 trying to take you with them in a blaze of glory, to say the least I found this to be a different 
 challenge. There also manage to give a little character building with alex.
  
  However, I do have to stress how much I think the episodic transition is. I paid 50-60 dollars 
 for games that give me 10-25 hours of game play and replay value, normally including some sort 
 of multiplayer. I paid 20 dollars for non revolutionary game play and 3 hours worth of game. I 
 feel quite screwed over about this. yes I got source m-play for half life, woo hoo!
  
  Games may not respond to well to this if they decide to make a 50 dollars game that doesn't complete 
 the story only to finish it 20 dollars at a time! Why couldn't they have just developed another 
 game to take you another 20 hours into the story? Instead I'm pretty sure I can expect atleast 
 a half dozen more of these things costing 120 dollars total that could've been packed into one 
 game! Valve made a good game, but is also trying to screw us.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xaxain
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 18, 2006 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2: Episode One was everything that I was looking forward to, except the length of time 
 it took to beet. Although I cannot complain I only paid $15 dollars for it. It had all the right 
 feel and touch of the original Half-Life 2, but in a smaller more condensed version. The story 
 line was a bit dicey at parts, like where did all of my weapons go from the ending? I played the 
 game with the commentary blocks activated an listened for the most part to all of them. The fact 
 that you didn't get a weapon for the first third of the game was a little nerve racking. All in 
 all if you are a die hard Half-Life fan (like me) it's worth the money to continue the sage, for 
 others this may not be for you. Once again awesome game, way to short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WhirlingDurvish
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2006 2:33 pm PT
Review:  This has to be the best game in the half life series. I wish it was longer cause I loved this game... 
 short but sweet. It could be frustrating at times (espicially when your stupid squad would get 
 in front of you and you couldn't walk) cause you would miss stuff and have to go look for it but 
 it was completely offset by the awesome action, story, and... everything else. Now I cant wait 
 for half life two Episode Two it looks so awesome. Valve knows how to make games and they better 
 explain what that monster thing was on the tv screens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SciFiShooterGUY
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 18, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Just completing the first Half-Life 2, I was excited to give this game a run. And given the chance, 
 it was an excellent 5 hours of gameplay.
  
  So, now that I mentioned gamplay, i'll tell you a little and try not to spoil too much:
  You'll 
 be facing tons of zombies, thats one thing I'l tell you. A new type also. But there are a few other 
 appearances, and I think 2 new ones that dont do anything to you in this game. It's great to have 
 an even smarter AI version of Alex by your side. She actually thinks before doing something stupid. 
 Like say you crossed a hall, and turrets start up. shell stay in her safe position until she thinks 
 its ok to pass. And I dont mean when the turrets stop, but when they are shut down. I had a coule 
 sweet V-shaped cross fires with her walking down some hallways. Especially helpful in hallways 
 with lots of doors and holes in the wall. The only thing she didnt seem to good at was dodging 
 the new Zombines' attack. So many times I tried to kill them before they got to her. But oddly 
 enough she seems even stronger than you against their grenade attack. She has a nice fatality kick 
 move going on with the zombies too sometimes.
  
  Graphics: I thik the graphics, especially maxed and with HDR, make the game look very good. Sure, 
 you can walk right up, arms width, and maybe see the imperfections in level textures. But, overall, 
 they look good enough to fool the eye, because they blend well. And definatly the character and 
 monster models are the crispest and most detailed I have seen in this game. You also can see a 
 little glare is the eyes of human characters, which give them pretty much the illusion of actually 
 being alive. but, in any case, there are tons of little realistic details you'll notvie about this 
 game. More than I can mention here. It's even better than the first Half Life 2.
  
  Sound: Now, I think the music in this game was very fitting. But it tended to not last long enough. 
 But there is so much other atmosphere to the world that music isn't always necessary. Weapons and 
 other sounds sound great to me. But what do I know. So many other people complained about the weapon 
 sounds in DOOM 3, which I thought were fine. but, the style of gameplay is different, so there 
 is no comparing here.
  
  Great game. Pick it up. Download off Steam. Who said episodic games aren't great. Not me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nawras
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 18, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  - Half Life 2: Episode One -
  
  
  Half Life 2: Episode One is a good gaming experience but not so great as to add it to your best-games 
 collection.
  
  - Gameplay
  
  Gameplay in EO is almost unchanged from the previous HL2. There is a heavier emphasis on puzzle 
 solving that involves the gravity gun. In this way EO is more challenging than HL2, simply because 
 in many instances you are required to solve a puzzle while at the same time fending off enemies.
 
  
  Thankfully that would not be a mighty feat since Alyx is playing alongside most of the time. Usually 
 you would tend to let her kill off the enemies, since her ammo is infinite and, God bless her, 
 she is invincible to everything.
  
  Alyx is great company as well, since she keeps you entertained most of the time with her witty 
 dialogue and practical jokes. It is a great escape from loneliness, although in a couple of places 
 you have to be by yourself.
  
  Regardless of everything, the level design is quite good but mostly revisted or recycled. But in 
 some places it is just annoyingly dark and the flash light shoots only a tight beam. It almost 
 feels like Silent Hill in first person (now here is an interesting idea for Silent Hill 5) but 
 it is often frustrating, especially if you have a not-too-wonderful LCD screen. My motto is always 
 minimize black in games.
  
  There is a major glitch in the game though. Although a nice feature, the commentary bubbles provide 
 you invincibility when activated so as to not get you killed why you are listening to the commentary. 
 They could be abused though - some of them are placed in the middle of a battle zone, and you can 
 activate them anu number of times you wish. So you could practically keep them continously commenting 
 while you are shooting off a bazooka in close range. This is a major bug since it makes the difficult 
 battles quite a breeze, even the final one.
  
  - Graphics & Sound
  
  Graphical enhancements to the game are only minor facial expressions and some added effects. Nothing 
 major despite the advancement of technology, but the graphics engine is quite solid and serves 
 its prupose well. Soundwise, the tracks are well placed and on spot, and Alyx keeps quite an interesting 
 conversation on most of the time. Sound effects are the usual but sometimes they sound tinny, depending 
 on your configuration.
  
  
  Overall, despite its short length, it is quite good and solid, but because of its length, it is 
 a rental at most. If I were you, I would wait till all episodes are released, then after which 
 they would surely release all in one package, and only THEN would I purchase them and stick them 
 next to the grand HL2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axle126
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 18, 2006 10:48 am PT
Review:  Before I decided to play episode 1 when I picked it up, I went through and beat half life 2 again 
 (just so those dramatic moments were fresh in my mind) . Right after I beat it, I started out episode 
 one. It was quite an experience, telling more of the story I was dying to get into again. After 
 about 3 and a half hours, I was on a train and then the credits came up. I was a little shocked 
 that the game was that short. I beat the entire game in one sitting. This might scare people away 
 from purchasing this game because of its length. It is about the length of 2 movies, so some might 
 say it does not have a lot of content. It would be wrong to say that though, because every minute 
 of this game is action packed with even more thrills than the first half life 2. The graphics and 
 sound are excellent as always, the voice acting is captivating and the plot is really drawing me 
 in. I am going to be sitting here anxiously until episode 2 is released. Hopefully they will have 
 it released soon (the advantage of making theses smaller games) .
  
  For the $19.99 price over steam, this game is entirely worth it if you enjoyed the thrills of half 
 life 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Beechbone666
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 18, 2006 3:44 am PT
Review:  Episode One is all that a Half-life fan can ask for. Well maybe it could be longer however, these 
 few hours spent with Ep1 are really highly entertaining. It has better graphics, better AI and 
 better gameplay overall. There is only one new enemy - funny called by Alyx a zombine - there are 
 no new guns, no vehicles, and actually no new characters. But it doesn't matter really. The game 
 is so great from the very beginning to the very end that you just sit with a mouth wide open after 
 it ends. It was worth waiting for, and now Episode Two appears to me as the most anticipated game 
 for the rest of the year.
  
  Episode One is a must for all HL fans even if it's very short and not as cheap as one might expect. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Homes225
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 18, 2006 3:14 am PT
Review:  Episode is the first of 3 episodes from Valve and so far it is going well without too many faults. 
 The source engine and amazing graphics are back and now only $20. Episode One doesn't answer much 
 about the many questions in the HL series and only adds more questions. The gameplay is fun and 
 Valve added a new hud copied off of Sin Emergence's that adds a health bar to the left of the crosshair 
 and a ammo bar to the right. All of the HL characters make a cameo and the devs added a commentary 
 mode to show the gamers what they were thinking when they designed that part of the game. Episode 
 one doesn't require the original HL but Steam is needed to play. The A. I. is still very smart 
 and the new puzzles make you think more than ever. There are no new guns added to the game and 
 is short (but hey its supposed to be, its an episode) so replayabilty is minimal. While glitches 
 are rare I did run into an error where Alyx, your sexy companion who helps you throughout the game 
 in a nice co-op feature, got stuck in a piece of debris that caused me to reload a save game. At 
 times it may feel like Alyx is doing more than you so the devs may have to let the player do more 
 in the next episode. There are many scary and dark area that add a great touch of excitement to 
 the common HDR lit areas in Episode One. The gravity gun also returns along with its lethal overcharge 
 that lets you fling combine across the room. The barnacle creatures from HL1 also return with a 
 new Zombine (Combine that is infested by Zombie) who packs Kamikaze Nades. At the end of the 5-7 
 hour gameplay Episode One a great step toward the new Episodic Idea that shows high ambitions. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yossimitsu
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 18, 2006 1:16 am PT
Review:  Half life episode one is a great continuation of half life 2. It is one of three episodes that 
 will be released in order to continue the story line of Half life. 
  All the great things are kept in this sequel and more. Great graphics with the addition of HDR, 
 good voice acting, fantastic atmosphere and more.
  There are even puzzle like missions that will make you think before you act.
  The only problem 
 with this game is that it is too short and too expensive.
  If the three episodes will be that short, they will all come together as one game or even less 
 and you will pay much more than you would for a single full game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SH_guY
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 2, 2006 4:49 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about the length of this game I wasnt optimistic to the idea of episodic content. 
 Yes it has its pros like the small release times between each part of the story, but to have a 
 game which can only last about 3-4 hours is just not worth the money, even if it is only $20. Well 
 Half-Life 2: Episode One, although short completely destroys any doubt you'd have about buying 
 this game. It is short, but during that short time you spend playing it, its one hell of an exciting 
 adventure, and can help you completely overlook the fact that its over in one sitting.
  
  Gameplay is highly addictive and becomes part of the problem about playing the game because it 
 keeps you so immersed all the way through and then all of a sudden, its over and leaves you wanting 
 more. The exact desired affect Valve was trying to acheive when they created this.
  Still the controls are tight, and action sequences are always there for you to enjoy as you fight 
 your way through the city battling Combine forces, ant lions, zombies and the new famous monster 
 additions to the game, 'zombines'.
  
  Graphics, to say the least are fantastic and with the new High-Dynamic Range Lighting (HDR) with 
 Valve's Source, it really gives a fresh coat of paint to the somewhat dated engine. Places throughout 
 your journey through City 17 will be somewhat familiar to those who played the original Half-Life 
 2, but amidst all the chaos and action happening all around you, you'll hardly notice that your 
 backtracking through some of the streets of City 17 which is on the brink of a chaotic dark fusion 
 reaction.
  
  Sound affects are good and music sequences give every scene and place you journey through a mood 
 of its own. The only problem is sometimes the music can go on for a bit too long, or end before 
 the real action even begins. Still, this doesnt affect the quality of music and sound affects in 
 Episode One which are close to flawless. The biggest aspect that is one of the main focuses in 
 Episode One is the team co-op where you spend almost the whole game alongside Alyx fighting as 
 well as solving puzzles using your weapons and the environment around you to save yourself from 
 danger. Episode One is very much built around this, so side characters like Alyx develop over the 
 course of the game and give you a sense that they're really indepth characters and have stories 
 of their own. Alyxs development as a character throughout the game makes you very attached to her 
 and by doing this really helps go beyond the normal premises of a first-person shooter. Her jokes 
 and optimistic outlook to certain parts of the game help add a light hearted humour to what could 
 be a dark and depressing situation.
  
  Overall this is a fantastic game, although short, it takes all the best bits of Half-Life 2 and 
 mixes them together with beautiful graphics, superb AI and helps to create a very fun but short 
 experience - A must buy for fans of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: braltma08
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 17, 2006 9:24 pm PT
Review:  This game will keep you saying wow! Albeit short lived, the 4-6 hours of gameplay this initial 
 episode provides is incredibly focused, balanced, and never slow. Anyone who is a fan of the Half-Life 
 games and wants to see the continuation of the events following Half-Life 2 must play through this 
 game. The level design is incredible, with huge design variation, incredible lighting, and the 
 ever-present source physics this game is a must play. The update Source graphics engine effects 
 are astounding. One could explain everything that is good about this game but that would take too 
 long, the only bad thing is the length. Do yourself a favor, if you have the money, play it, if 
 not, wait a few months. Either way you will begin what looks to be a fantastic 3-part continuation 
 of the life of Gordon Freeman at some point. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: renegadedod
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 17, 2006 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Half life 2: Episode 1 was simply amazing. First of all, the new AI for Alyx, so that alyx would 
 not be just another blundering character like those of the rebels who follow you in Half life 2 
 is awesome. The AI is completely believable, and soon you will not even remember that alyx is a 
 NPC and not an actual player fighting beside you.
  
  If they can improve this much going from Half Life 2 to Half life 2: episode 1, then I cannot wait 
 for Episode 2. Other than following the game series for the story - which i do - the gameplay is 
 also really great.
  
  In episode 1, the gameplay kinda lacked from half life 2 because you did not get to interact with 
 so many characters. it seemed a little odd to be just interecting mostly with alyx. in half life 
 2, you had a couple of rebel squads that followed you, the antlions who obeyed you, and just the 
 fact that you went from one rebel base to another as you continued your story across the map. well, 
 episode 2 should improve on this, so dont worry. it will have a new style of gameplay that is more 
 like a battlefield, and less like just urban house to house combat... but that is episode 2, and 
 we are here to talk about episode 1.
  
  well, i love alyx's AI. she is independent so you dont need to worry about her becoming overwhelmed, 
 but she is not so powerful that you just sit back and she does all the work. they have really got 
 it balanced out.
  
  the physic puzzle at the end sucked, but that was probably because the strider did not properly 
 shoot the container and make it fall so i could jump onto it and finish the puzzle - stupid strider 
 AI... but i just decided "screw this! i wont let this ruin my gaming experience" and noclipped 
 over to alyx's location so i could finish it off...
  
  the ending was a real cliff hanger, but hell, so was half life 2. i cannot wait to see more of 
 g-man, and i am also really mad that they have already set back the date for episode 2 to spring 
 of 2007... by the time spring 2007 comes along, they'll probably be saying early summer (maybe 
 even june 1 - lol) ...
  
  i will be really pissed if they dont end up bringing shepard (from opposing force) out of his sleep, 
 and making an expansiona and story for him... everyone is waiting for his story to unfold. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starsky303
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 17, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  What a stunning looking, exciting and breathtaking short story.
  
  From start to finish, this game definitely does not disappoint. Theres always something going 
 on and the fact that its all happening via the use of the glorious, ever updating, boundary pushing 
 Half-Life 2 engine makes the adventure all the more amazing. Not to mention the intricate artwork 
 on, well everything!
  The level of difficulty is certainly harder than the previous (providing you don't use the 'Quick 
 Save/Load keys) , hell, how many exploding things and bullets can you dodge while looking after 
 Alyx whilst shes looking after you whilst youre trying to look after someone else whilst looking 
 at everything around you Ill stop with the looking.
  Voice acting and character interaction (with both good guys and bad) are great. Problem solving 
 isnt all that but it calms down and evenly spreads out the absolutely chaotic events giving you 
 time to tart about with the Grav-Gun a bit. (Which reminds me, youll find yourself using the Grav-Gun 
 a lot more in this episode which is never a bad thing)
  There are no vehicles to drive around in on this one but this isnt a problem because the constant 
 action keeps you busy and hey, you barely have enough time to worry about something like that (mwah 
 ha haa) . Well, I did say it was a breathtaking short story. 
  The game doesnt take you nowhere near as far out and about as the previous and its over before 
 you know it making you think (just for a second until you realise how good the adventure had been) 
 hmm, this feels as short as a community mod.
  That said, its $15 (a tenner for me) and its most definitely money well spent. Cmon, a lot of 
 us pee that kind of money up the wall all the time, why not invest in a work of art?
  The fact that its short and you dont really feel like youve travelled that far by the end due 
 to the variation in location, are the only two things Im bothered about. And by variation in location, 
 I mean that I wouldve liked to have been swept away to a more spacious landscape like the beach 
 in HL2 or whizzing around freely in the hovercraft. Instead I felt a little claustrophobic, as 
 if the levels werent big enough, yet this was just a minor feeling I had, looking back AFTER I 
 had played. Dont get me wrong, this game is by no means repetitive.
  
  In all honestly, I would have loved for Valve to have taken their time, told the impatient fans 
 to quiet down and created one big Half-Life 3, like HL2 but better and longer. After all, you cant 
 rush art.
  But lets forget about that, theyve done it this way and Im still a happy-chappy.
  
  In short, 
 this game is like HL2 but a lot shorter yet a lot prettier and if you loved HL2 then youll definitely 
 love Episode One.
  Once youre done playing it, youll be begging for Episode Two.
  
  Did I mention how gorgeous the graphics are? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woef
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2006 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Halflife 2 Episode One is a real succesfull game, with improved AI, harder puzzles and two new 
 enemies.
  
  Gameplay:
  +Amazing, two new enemies which really rock and are pretty hard.
  +Better Artificial Intelligence.
 
  +Good action.
  +Teamwork
  -Sometimes a bit too hard.
  -Not that long game.
  
  Graphics:
  Even better then Halflife 2, with improved lightning effects.
  
  Sounds:
  New 
 enemies sound very good, the rest of the sounds sound great.
  
  Variety:
  Very good, nice puzzles, good variety of levels.
  Better use of the flashlight.
  Alyx joins 
 you the whole time, which is really nice.
  
  Value:
  Not that good, this game keeps you playing for about 5-6 hours on hard mode.
  No multiplayer 
 improvements.
  
  Online:
  None, which isnt that good.
  
  Tilt:
  Good first sight presentation.
  
  Halflife 2 ep 1 is a great game, with better AI then HL2.
 
  cya all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccooper86
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 17, 2006 12:46 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 Episode 1 follows directly on from the end of Half Life 2. The beginning of the game 
 and how Gordon and Alex survive the explosion is a bit of a cop out however the game improves from 
 there on. This episode follows your escape from City 17 to escape the dark matter explosion. The 
 game doesnt add anything excitingly new from whats happened before you have the same standard 
 weapons and the very useful gravity gun. One addition that is nice is the character development 
 involving Alex who it with you throughout the game and will assist you in most combat sequences. 
 There are also some funny moments involving the characters but I will leave that for you to discover.
 
  
  My only real gripe with the game is the length. I completed it in around 6 hours which is very 
 short and a little disappointing.
  
  Overall the game is visually stunning as you would expect nothing less, with some great sound effects. 
 I can definitely say that if you dont have a 7.1 setup get one, the difference is incredible. 
 On a high end PC the game is fantastic and even if you have a low end PC the game is still enjoyable.
 
  
  The game is stand alone from HL2 so you dont even have to have the original to play it however 
 jumping straight into episode one without playing HL2 would be a little confusing.
  
  Overall 8.3/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wizard11
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 15, 2006 8:05 pm PT
Review:  I was really impressed with this follow on, I like the episodic approach as we fans can get more 
 action sooner. I was however disappointed in the length of the episode. I understand it takes time 
 to create a great self contained game like this and that Valve is balancing time to market and 
 content but I am looking at $$/playing time I am not sure this is a great deal. If I take the time 
 I played the full game divided by the $$ I spent and then look at the same metric with Episode 
 one and the full version is 3 times the value. If Valve is going to continue down this path I think 
 they need to add more content or reduce the price.
  Ok, enough whining about the cost. The graphics are fantastic and the game play is really great. 
 I like the opening, although the escape from the explosion was a little weak in the explanation 
 area. Having Dog there for a while was fun. I really liked the van being thrown over the opening 
 and that sequence as well as most of the puzzles. The addition of having to move cars over the 
 ant lion holes is really a great touch. So the addition is well thought out.
  The interactions with Alex are really improved in this episode as well. It was nice to have company 
 throughout the level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeusmeisterX007
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 14, 2006 10:36 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 Episode 1 starts off with a flashback of the end of Half Life 2. Some weird things 
 happen that are not explained at all and the story just gets weirder, but I think it does have 
 an explanation. Anyway the game officially begins with the player getting pulled out of some rubble 
 by Dog and Alex. Some story sequences ensue followed by a fun but brief trip back into the citadel, 
 after which you must escape underground through some very dark tunnels.
  
  This is the part of the review where I differ from the crowd. I loved every moment of the pitch 
 black sequences. I think they were incredible. The HDR lighting really works with the flashlight, 
 but most of the reviews claim that shining light on enemies for Alyx to shoot them gets old. They're 
 wrong. It is possible to kill over 75% of the enemies in the dark with your own guns, and then 
 it is possible to let Alyx kill 75%. It really comes down to how you play. As a final touch, burning 
 objects and zombies create dynamic light, which is essential in the final dark fight.
  
  After you get back to the surface there are a number of fights, many of which can be fought by 
 Alyx assisted by you if you desire, and can also be done by you alone. Most memorable are the Antlion 
 Guard fight and the Gunship fight, which are truly awesome to play.
  
  All too soon your riding on the train away from the city at a great speed watching the Citadel 
 explode followed by rolling credits. All in all in the game is great, hindered only by the fact 
 that the game ends too soon.
  
  Gameplay 10/10: Great while it lasts. There are four fights I thought were really great, and they 
 were all very different. Zombies hordes in the dark, Antlion Guard in the street, Gunship in the 
 breaking building, and Strider at the trainyard. While there is only one new enemy type, the Zombine, 
 I do not really think the game suffers at all for it. What Half Life 2 had already was enough.
 
  
  Graphics 10/10: Although games like F. E. A. R. bring new effects like parallax mapping to the table, 
 Half Life 2 easily keeps right up with it's great visuals and good use of HDR. No other game does 
 such a wide variety of enviroments so well.
  
  Sounds 10/10: All the voices are done well, and there are plenty to go around. That combined with 
 good ambient and combat sounds really help make the game more convincing. Some of the weapon sounds 
 have been tweaked as well.
  
  Value 7/10: Episode One lasts a little over five hours at best the first time through. Ultimately 
 you have to decide for youself whether you want to pay $20 for a five hour game. Maybe it's a little 
 pricey for some of you, but then again a movie can be over $10. If you liked Half Life 2 and you 
 have the money, buy this game without even thinking about it. Forget about the $20, and you'll 
 have a great time all the way through. The commentary also gives at least another three hours, 
 and is a fun insight into how the game was made.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcahill92129
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2006 10:06 pm PT
Review:  Granted, this game is EXTEMELY short (udner 6 hours if you take your time very slowly) . but, other 
 then that, i loved this "installment" or w/e you want to call it (its not a real "game" per se, 
 too short to be called that) . But, i felt it was worth the $20, it continued on the awsome storyline, 
 a compelling tale of fighting back against an alien overlord who is beginning to crumble. It also 
 adds probably one of the top 5 visual affects that i have ever seen (you see the citadel + whats 
 left of City 17 and i just stood there zooming on everything saying WOW, this is an awsome depiction 
 of a war zone/post apocolyptic area) You fight with Alyx at your side for 98% of the time, which 
 is fun, as it brings on a decent team aspect (you cannot tell her to cover you, go here, etc is 
 very basic) . overall, this update is very well done, a must have for any Half Life enthusiast (sp?) , 
 as it furthers the tales of Dr. Gordon Freeman, graduate of MIT. and the Dr. Kleiner speeches are 
 totally worth it as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlienXS
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 14, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  The Guys at Valve-Steam & Co. Deserve every single cent they earn.
  The game (well.. episode) is GOOD. Same Hi-Tech of HL2 but many improvements made to lights and 
 physics AND some deepened interest to Alyx and D0G. The animations are simply gorgeous the game 
 exciting and the INNOVATIVE "Comments" systems make you want to play the game more and more and 
 more to discover details of the Game and the work behind it.
  It's like watching the extras in your Favourite DVD movie, but here you are fully interactive. 
 
  New Enemies, Toughest AI and Game Situations, same annoying blackheadcrabs too hard to die. 
 
  But HELL too short........
  
  I am so happy to give you those money guys but next time make it last a little longer (hope this 
 won't frustrate your Programming Prode ;) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antogall
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 13, 2006 10:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is generally excellent. Having Alyx by your side adds a good flair to the game. If you 
 are like me and felt like some of the sequences in the other Half Life games felt slightly dragged 
 out, you will be happy to know that Alyx alleviates many of these issues. 
  
  The graphics in this game are outstanding. While you need a high end computer to turn on all the 
 eye candy, even a lower-end machine will churn out some attractive visuals. Though the visuals 
 are beautiful, the real thing that makes the source engine stand out is the fact that it is so 
 scalable. I can run pretty much everything on high with an ATI Radeon 9800 Pro. 
  
  Gameplay is pretty much identical to Half Life 2, except the enemies are a little smarter. That 
 said, they still seem like they would not score so well on intelligence tests, as they will often 
 stand in exposed positions or charge directly at you. Additionally, having Alyx by your side offers 
 a great sense of camraderie that no other Half Life game has ever delivered. Additionally, some 
 of the weapons are rather annoying to fire, as they don't feel very realistic; accuracy is seemingly 
 not affected in any way, even when sprinting. Despite these flaws, there are some really great 
 moments of gameplay. Once or twice during the game I felt almost like I was playing Brothers in 
 Arms because of the way I had to utilize cover. 
  
  Sound in the game is very good. The different weapons all make satisfying noises depending on their 
 properties. Personally, I would like to see a little more in the way of a soundtrack; the few times 
 that the Half Life techno style songs play in the background, the game is given a more cinematic 
 feel. The voice acting is excellent, though very rarely there is a questionable bit of dialogue. 
 
  
  As you have probably heard, it will not take you very long to play through this game. To make matters 
 worse, the beginning and end feel very rushed, as if the developers could not think up of a good 
 idea. To beef up the value, there is a very well implemented commentary track, which, if you are 
 very interested in that sort of thing, could conceivably double the length of the game.
  
  It is very easy to reccomend this game. The companionship brings a refreshing touch to the half 
 life series while the source engine makes the game extrememly immersive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thornpaw
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 13, 2006 7:38 am PT
Review:  The graphics were as incredible as the first game and they seemed to improve the sound a little, 
 i. e. more subtle background noises. What disappointed me was the game play and the length of the 
 game. There was a few time that I got stuck and couldn't figure out how to forge ahead without 
 looking at a Walkthrough. In HL2, if I got stuck all I had to do was look around and I could figure 
 out what was needed to move ahead. And the *SPOILER, Maybe* 
 
  
  constant falling through floors got old real fast. I also didn't not like I purchased the game 
 loaded it up and still had to download another 1.8Gbs of material before I could play it. That 
 seem wrong to me. Lets hope that in the next episode they do some vast improvements in the game 
 play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Re_Das_7
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 13, 2006 7:24 am PT
Review:  Half life is and will and still one of the best games ever
  there is alot of great things in the game like the great graphics and the great AI and also the 
 great gameplay engine
  As i saw in this part HL ep1 there is a great advantages that covered the few disadvantges in this 
 game
  
  adv
  1- small size game 
  2- very high graphics and low requirements
  3- cool game play engine
  etc....
  
  dis
  1- nothing new 
  2- the same wepons only the 
 magnum is new one
  3- very very very very short game just took 6hrs to finsh it
  4- no story just (freeman and the chick want to escape by the train)
  5- no driving (cars or boats)
 
  6- the BUGS thing that makes u control them
  
  after all this disadvantges still HL a great game but  
 short and nothing new 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snowshoe
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2006 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Well well well, the fun continues. Im very impressed with Valves release of episodes for Half 
 Life 2 (HL2) . I have said for a long time that storys should be released quicker with new episodes. 
 The reason being, you can take advantage of awesome game play before the technology becomes old, 
 and you dont have to immediately upgrade your machine to play a new installment. 
  
  Episode one is pretty much more of HL2. Honestly, there isnt too much new. The graphics look nicer, 
 and there is the addition of two new bad guys the zombine and the stalker. The Zombine seems 
 to be a bit more aggressive then the regular combine of HL2, but the Stalkers remind me a lot 
 of the Borg from Star trek. They dont really bother you unless you pose as a threat. The way the 
 story progresses a little different in that Alyx Vance accompanies you through most of the game. 
 Company is so much fun. The one sided dialogue is a bit funny at times. Fair amount of flirting/blushing 
 occurs from Alyx. The game also has a bit more humorous dialogue, and Ill let you find out for 
 yourself.
  
  If you purchase this game in a shop, youll get a nice over size DVD case. Kinda nice, now I can 
 put all my HL2 disks in a hard case as opposed to those paper covers.
  
  Basically, this game is just as awesome as Half Life the original, and HL2. I love this series, 
 and I figure most others will to.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edwincnelson
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 12, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Picked it up for $15.99 on sale and I feel it was worth the money spent. My only complaint is that 
 other games have adopted a more open ended gameplay, where HL2 is very much a shooter on rails 
 without much in the way of gameplay choices. A fun, short ride. Kind of like a good T. V. show instead 
 of a full length movie. I recommend it for anyone who has a few hours to spend on a weekend so 
 that you can play it all the way through from beginning to end. Better than HL2. No. Better than 
 most. Yes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zasxcdf
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2006 4:00 pm PT
Review:  To me the Half Life series has been amazing... and it still is with this new expansion. Episode 
 one is great on all fronts, though it ends with you craving more. This game is made for people 
 who liked Half Life 2, it brings back all of the gameplay and puzzle elements that made Half Life 
 2 great. 
  The Graphics in this game are amazing. You can look at the environments and you'll easily notice 
 the large amount of detail that went into this game. Episode one is easily worth the purchase even 
 though the game is 5 to 10 hours long. The spectacular shooting parts throughout the game are amazing 
 especially the one at the very end of the game. The game ends on yet another cliffhanger, though 
 it starts poorly. With Episode One's graphics, new and also classic gameplay and with its 20$ price, 
 makes the game one of the best first person shooters to come out in al long. If you like first 
 person shooters or if you like th Half Life series this game is right for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordDeArnise
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 12, 2006 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Short on gamelength, but big on immense battles and content. That is pretty much the theme behind 
 Half Life 2: Episode One, the first of three standalone expansion content to expand the Half Life 
 2 story. It picks up where the original game left off, after the explosion at the top of The Citadel, 
 at the center of City 17. This time, Alyx Vance stays with Gordon Freeman most of the time, as 
 you battle to get out of City 17 before the core explodes, taking the city with it.
  
  The gameplay is the same as it is in the original Half Life 2. There will be places to crouch through, 
 others to sprint and jump, and, of course, plenty of otherworld creatures and Combine to fill with 
 lead. The early part of the game has you only using the Gravity Gun, but you'll be reunited with 
 the rest of the weapons soon enough.
  
  The graphics are about the same, if not more enhanced. Alyx gives plenty of facial expression while 
 she speaks, but you don't see much of Judith, Dr. Kleiner, or Alyx's father. You do get to see 
 some new otherworldly creatures, but nothing that needs killing other than the typical Combine, 
 Headcrabs, Zombies, and Antlions.
  
  The sounds are pretty much carryovers from the original, but there are some new BGM's to listen 
 to while you're fighting. The new audio for the sniper rifle is nice too, and the Combine snipers 
 are not afraid to go for your head.
  
  Otherwise, the $20 value for the game doesn't quite go with the few hours of gameplay. The new 
 modes of multiplayer plus the new Source version of the Half Life 1 Deathmatch mode does offset 
 the short SP gameplay. You'll still find some of them playing the DM games, but since all Valve 
 games launch through Steam, it, of course, pales with all the Counter-Strike and Day of Defeat 
 players. Other than that, Episode 1 is a good standalone pack with all the MP amenities that come 
 with it for a few hours session. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: all_will_die
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 12, 2006 12:21 pm PT
Review:  once again holy Fu**ing SH** this is awesomely well awesome 
  
  filling up space filling up space filling up space filling up space filling up space filling up 
 space filling up space filling up space filling up space filling up space filling up space filling 
 up space filling up space filling up space filling up space filling up space filling up space filling 
 up space filling up space filling up space filling up space filling up space filling up space filling 
 up space filling up space filling up space filling up space filling up space filling up space filling 
 up space filling up space filling up space filling up space filling up space filling up space filling 
 up space filling up space filling up space filling up space filling up space 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgrant0235
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2006 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 was, in my opinion, one of the best games to come out in recent memory. Half-Life 2: 
 Episode One is part of a trilogy of episodes that are a continuation of the story. The game picks 
 up right where Half-Life 2 left off. Theres some resolution given to the cliffhanger ending, but 
 dont expect any real answers to your questions. This episode is primary the aftermath of everything 
 that just happened. The Citadel is about to explode, and you must flee City 17 to avoid its blast. 
 
  
  One thing that I think needs to be addressed is the content. Since this being an episode, I believe 
 a lot of people, including major publications, have been treating it as a full-fledged game. The 
 primary gripe about Episode One is the length. Of course, some people dont grasp the concept of 
 game episodes or just dont like the idea. I can understand where this is coming from. However, 
 I believe this viewpoint has led to some unfair or dishonest reviews. My review will treat this 
 like what it is, an episode. Expect to playing this episode for a total of 5 hours at the most. 
 
  
  The main difference between Half-Life 2 and Episode One is the coop dynamic you have with Alyx. 
 She is pretty much with you the entire episode. Of course, I will admit that I didnt accept this 
 with open arms at first. The rebel forces that followed you previously were stupid. They constantly 
 got in your way and clustered around you. It did get quite frustrating at times. However, I never 
 had this problem with Alyx. Shes sporting a brand new A. I. and is actually an asset. Shes generally 
 helpful during the unscripted play sessions. She also can be quite amusing at times. One time in 
 particular as she and I fought through a pitch black area filled with zombies, I only had my flashlight 
 to see. My light was drained and went out, and she started making zombie groans and such. I shined 
 the light back on her face, and she started laughing while saying, Fooled you. I had a small 
 chuckle. Anyways, I enjoyed having a helpful and insightful companion with me. It added another 
 dimension to the game play. 
  
  Graphics wise, Episode One isnt a huge difference. The HDR lighting from Lost Coast has been implemented, 
 along with some slightly improved textures. I think it looks better then a lot of newly released 
 titles that are sporting the plastic look. The lighting alone adds a lot to the environment. Overall, 
 Half-Life 2 still looks great. 
  
  The same actors reprise their roles here, again. They all do a great job. Dr. Kleiner is amusing 
 as always. The sound effects are exactly what you should remember. Theres also quite a few new 
 tunes that play over the course of the episode. I enjoyed all of them, too. 
  
  To be as honest as possible, Episode One is service to the fans. This isnt meant to please anybody 
 that felt Half-Life 2 was lacking. It is just a continuation of the story, but also not just an 
 expansion, either. It has a lot more of the same, while adding some slight twists. Episode One 
 is pretty much a must-buy for anybody wanting more Half-Life action. The $20 price tag isnt a 
 bad thing, and this can help determine if you want to purchase any more episodes. Just remember 
 one thing, you are buying an episode, not a full game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SolidBluR
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 12, 2006 8:36 am PT
Review:  I was a bit sceptical to the whole "episodic content"-idea. My thoughts worsened as I read reviews 
 stating that there was barely time to get into the story before it was all over. Knowing this I 
 still picked it up and gave it a go. Acctually, with a price like that, and thinking of how much 
 work goes into this, it feels almost free.
  
  Me and a couple of mates sat down as I played the first levels, and we were all astounded at the 
 movie-like quality of animations and script, not to mention the new HDR-lighting. After a couple 
 of hours I was hooked, and started fearing the end would come all too soon, but to my surprise, 
 it went on and on. 
  
  The levels are designed with such high quality that it feels like a neat sandbox, and I often foound 
 myself quickloading just so I could play battles again in different manners. There are always a 
 huge variety of tactics you can pull off, and I was glad to see that Valve had decreased the number 
 of explosive barrels and instead focused on making your possibilities varied (in HL2 you'd basically 
 always find an explosive barrel close to enemies, and gameplay would go from "find enemy" to "find 
 barrel") .
  
  It should be noted that you run around for nearly an hour without getting any sort of weapon other 
 than the zero point enery manipulation gun (in your face Alyx) , and for me that was too long. Yes, 
 you do get the upgrade for grabbing organic material (basically soldiers) , but that never really 
 made it a fun weapon in my book, just overpowered. Another weird part is that you don't get your 
 trusty crowbar instantly, but much much sooner, after you've gotten hold of an arsenal of weapons. 
 Cracking all those crates open with the gravity gun gets stale after a couple of hours, and I ended 
 up blasting them apart with my shotgun instead, efficiently sucking my ammo away (I'm smart like 
 that) .
  
  Luckily, you've got unlimited ammo this time, and it's called Alyx. Need to conserve those shells? 
 Get familiar with the sprint-button and flash the baddies with your maglight, she'll have them 
 crawling by theirs arms in no time. Alyx is a more than capable sidekick and even 50cent has got 
 nothing on her when it comes to being cannonfodder. I've seen her get blasted by countless grenades, 
 but after the smoke clears she is still on both legs kicking the zombies off her. Literally. Belive 
 me when I say she's got some new moves up her sleave. It's a nice change to acctually feel like 
 your NPC-allies are helping you out instead of you protecting their fragile polygons, quickload 
 after quickload.
  
  There are a couple of bossfights in there, although the bosses are familiar enemies from HL2, it 
 still makes for some nervetwisting run'n gun-moments. There is only one new enemy as far as I can 
 remember, but I can't say he's the most original foe I've ever come across. He's a capable one 
 though, so don't be stingy on the ammo. And if you see a red light, shoot it. You'll be glad you 
 did.
  
  Basically, I find that this episode is precisely what an episode should be like. It's top notch 
 entertainment from launch til quit, and it's basically a third the lenght of a regular game. And 
 a third the price (here in good old Norway anyway) . And I can't call that a bad deal.
  
  Valve basically did it again. Congratulations! Now get back to work!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dreadnt
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 12, 2006 7:43 am PT
Review:  After multiple well publicised delays, Half-Life 2 (finally) hit the not so un-suspecting public 
 in November 2004. And was met with wonderful acclaim across the board. And to be fair, it REALLY 
 is, the best story driven FPS that money can buy. Stylish, unique, brilliantly paced and damn good 
 fun to boot. But you've all read those reviews and there is no point in me re-iterating the point. 
 So I eagerly awaited the follow up to the best FPS of all time; purchased it from steam, and STILL 
 felt genuinely excited about another chapter in the half life story. Because, lets face it, its 
 still been another long wait. And lets face it, its more of the same, only shorter. ALOT SHORTER!!!!! 
 It really did feel like no sooner had i started the game then it was over. I actually thought I 
 was about half-way through it when it abruptly ended. Grrrrr. What the hell!!! Are we honestly 
 led to believe its taken almost another 2 years for this. There are NO new weapons to play with, 
 NO new vehicles. In fact, NO vehicles at all. Everyone will be shouting that its cheaper and its 
 going to be released in chapters so content gets here quicker. But i dont buy that sorry. There 
 are modders out there that have released new GFX, Sound, models and whole new stories in shorter 
 time than Valve - and thats with no multi-million dollar budget. Maybe chapter 2 will add more 
 content but i do feel ripped off for the first chapter. Most of the sections are right out the 
 end of Half-Life 2. There is only 1 new creature that I saw; labelled the Zombine. Well whoopie 
 do. A combine soldier with a head crab. Corridors so dark that its very hard to see whats going 
 on - Shades of DOOM 3 - And we all know how annoying that game is. Yes the GFX and sound are still 
 stunning but the Strider fight to end the chapter is extremely weak gaming. Where's the tension, 
 as seen in the gunship battles etc in Half-Life 2. Im sorry guys - I absolutely adored Half-Life 
 2 - but this Chapter left me feeling cold and cheated. Should have been out ALOT sooner after Half-life 
 2. Telling the truth - I would rather have waited and have Valve release Aftermath in one go for 
 29.99 than feel cheated like this. : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chihuahua1990
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2006 7:34 am PT
Review:  i havent played it yet but it looks like a good game, and it sure is if it is even better then 
 the original hl2, so i have good hopes for this game.
  i liked hl2 alot because of the great details in the environment, and how u could kill an enemy, 
 so i sure hope the kept that in the expansion.
  i sure recooment playing hl2 to all of u ppl out there.
  
  i m now filling my 100 words so 
 dont mind this :p
  ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drizzt_xx
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 11, 2006 8:11 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I will keep this short.
  Half-Life 2: Episode One is a short expansion to the storyline of the series and when I say short 
 I mean SHORT! The game literally took me 4 hours to beat, for 20 $ this is not a good value. I 
 also have only one other problem with this game, ITS NOT A GAME!!!! its kind of a tour of what 
 happens after the Half Life 2, and even when you do fight it is short and easy. Its like walking 
 a small red line and if you put one foot out of line you either get crushed, zapped, shot, or fall 
 off something or another. So those are the bad things about this..... movie, so lets get to the 
 good stuff.
  
  Episode one pushes the limit on new graphical technology pulling HDR even out of MY video card! 
 The scenes they put in front of you are beautiful and every moment of the game is scripted to give 
 you the best movie watching experience. I must say also that the voice acting and motor skills 
 of the NPCs also add a lot of affection for characters not previously built upon in Half 
 Life 2. If you are interested in what happens in the story or you just want to watch a very good 
 play then by all means buy this game, but first wait till the price drops a bit. 
  
  I enjoyed this game, and I think it deserves an 8.8 because Gamespot is always a bit harsh.
  
 
  (add me to your Steam friends- ryder301)
  www. dunadan. net/drizzt
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_evil_Nemesi
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 11, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  After playing Half-Life 2 : Episode 1, I had two things in mind : "Damn that was fun" and "Holy! 
 It's already over".
  You start the game with a plausible explanation as to why you escaped the explosion from the end 
 of HL2. Then you are slowly thrown into action after some scripted events with DOG and Alyx. But 
 once you're in, the game gives you no rest at all.
  
  You spend most of your time with Alyx. Nice addition, although Alyx seems to be invincible and 
 never gets her gun depleted. I saw her trapped with 5 zombies around her but still get away. But 
 she does help you a lot.
  There also seems to be a love story beginning between you and Alyx as she sometimes gets shy and 
 sad when you have to go separate ways.
  
  You get to see other main characters from HL2 as well, including Dr. Kleiner and Barney. They play 
 minor parts in the game.
  
  The graphics are really toned up with the HDR. Some sights are wonderful and the lights are more 
 life-like.
  As for sound, voice-acting remains top-notch and FX are the same as HL2.
  
  There is only a limited addition of new enemies, the Zombine, which are just tougher zombies with 
 grenades. No new guns either - deceiving a bit.
  
  There are some minor bugs though, the game completely crashed once during a script and sometimes 
 the sound stutters a bit even with a recent sound card.
  
  Half-Life 2 : Episode 1 is not a game for everyone as the price tags for around 20 bucks and is 
 rather short. But as long as it last, it is a very enjoyable game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ross131313
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 11, 2006 7:34 pm PT
Review:  While I will admit episodic content is long in coming, and I am all for such episodes as long as 
 there still are large, 20 hour single player experiences to be produced. This is a very good indication 
 of what to expect in the future, even if I dont totally agree with episodic content's idea.
  
  Now, on to the game,,,,
  
  FINALLY!
  
  *This game very much surpassed my expectations 
 on how immersive a single player experience could be. I mean, I actualy cared for alyx, and found 
 myself emotionally attached to her (Lucky Bastard Freeman) .*
  
  The game does not start out with as much of a bang as I would of liked, but I was instantly in 
 love with the graphics. Beautiful, and at a crisp 50 FPS! Go Source! THe opening scene feels like 
 a long, interactive tram ride like the origional Half life, and frankly, I was having so much fun, 
 I wish it could of gone on longer. I mean, between oogling the graphics, watching drama unfold 
 infront of my face, and finding myself loosing track of time, I was instantly in love with Half 
 Life 2: Episode 1. The game is just soooo immersive, I lost track of time within the first 15 minutes, 
 and never looked up until 3 hours later. 
  
  Differential from typical half life fashion, Alyx is by your side 85% of teh game, which I found 
 quite enjoyable. She delivers some witty dialogue, and has excellent lip synching, and she shows 
 excellent combat reactions. 
  
  I am trying very hard not to spoil any story elements, so this review is wrapping up alot quicker 
 than I expected.
  
  Replay value is quite good for 20$, The commentary system adds an entire reason to run through 
 the experience again. but the experience is just soo good, you want it to keep going and going.
 
  
  Final Verdict,
  
  Excellent game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yurik
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 11, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  (Note: This review assumes the reader has played and completed Half-Life 2. It contains spoilers 
 for that game.)
  
  A long time has passed since Half-Life was released in 1998. Weve seen countless mods, retail 
 products, ports, and  of course  the sequel. Looking back on it, a perfect 10/10 was not at all 
 an unreasonable reaction to HL2. The game astounded with its visuals and level of immersion from 
 the first time the G-mans enigmatic visage filled the screen. The games sense of style was unlike 
 that of any other game in existence, merging the realistic and the fantastic into a seamless package 
 which left the player gaping at the screen. Oh, and the gameplay was pretty good too  adding 
 gravity gun physics mayhem to varied FPS gameplay.
  
  Despite the frequent 10 ratings by various publications, I would claim the game did, nevertheless, 
 have serious flaws which were overshadowed by the shock of the visuals and the sci-fi worlds cohesiveness 
 and apparent depth. Other than the gravity gun, the games weapons lacked punch. There were filler 
 stretches, like the waterway chapters, that clearly existed just to make the game longer without 
 bringing much variety to the encounters. The load times were as frequent as they were painfully 
 long. The games combat was exceedingly linear. The squad combat was a disgrace. Finally, HL2s 
 Source engine, while capable of pumping out incredible visuals on mediocre hardware, was also one 
 of the most finicky engines in existence, with frustrating problems like the infamous looping 
 stutter bug. The technical issues were not helped by the Steam digital delivery services poorly 
 implemented mandatory updates that could screw up a given individuals HL2 installation without 
 warning and with no way to reverse the patches.
  
  In short, HL2 was a great game, but it was also one of the toughest to review objectively, given 
 the baggage that came with the game for many players. Now, Episode One is here, and its a direct 
 sequel running on the same Source engine (with some major improvements, like HDR) . Does it move 
 to correct HL2s considerable problems? Does it capitalize on its strengths? Is it denser, as Valve 
 had promised? Is it worth its $20 U. S. price tag? Lets find out.
  
  At the end of HL2, Gordon Freeman has caused the overloading of the Combine Citadels portal reactor, 
 apparently taking out the evil Dr. Breen. At this point, the frame simply froze, and one was left 
 (cliff-) hanging until Episode One. How did Alyx Vance, the lovely co-protagonist, and Gordon survive 
 the reactor overload? Well, youll see the answer in the games first minute, which doesnt mean 
 itll make sense. Anyway, at that point Episode Ones dense plot (yes, you read that right) will 
 unfold with impressive speed. Youll be accompanied by Alyx as you make the trek through and out 
 of the Citadel, through some underground tunnels and sewers, across City 17 streets and rooftops, 
 and finally to your ticket out of town. If that sounds a lot like Half-Life 2, that is surprisingly 
 not the full story, as a lot more happens in Episode One per minute than in HL2. HL2 was a lone-wolf 
 experience, with only maybe three or four sequences with any real human interaction  the rest 
 was combat. By contrast, Episode One has you accompanied by Alyx the whole way through, with plenty 
 of talking, and there are more overt clues about the nature of the Combine and other details in 
 one chapter of this game than all of Half-Life 2. This is entirely a positive thing, as the 2004 
 games mystery always came off more as lazy vagueness to me (the script writer was on vacation 
 syndrome) .
  
  While it lasts, Episode Ones storyline is certainly satisfying, due to trademark immersion, the 
 density of plot points (no matter how mechanical) , and the warmness of all human interaction (chiefly 
 with Alyx Vance) , even if that interaction is one-sided. (Gordon is still a mute.) Unfortunately, 
 this is the first episode of three, so dont expect any closure or resolutions (if you do, then 
 you clearly have never played a Half-Life game) .
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  So, how does it play? Valve clearly made a concerted effort to stuff as many different challenges 
 and encounter types into the game as they could, with great success  there simply isnt much filler 
 here, and every encounter has some sort of set piece that makes it interesting or special. The 
 Citadel sequences are all about getting from A to B by redistributing glowing energy spheres from 
 place to place, and other such gravity-gun-centered puzzles. Those arent particularly exciting 
 in terms of gameplay mechanics, but thats okay, because the Citadel is a veritable gape-fest. 
 
  
  After that, its onto some good, old-fashioned zombie killin action in dark tunnels, sewers, caved 
 in parking garages, etc. The zombies and head crabs are disgusting as ever, and theres even a 
 new zombie type; the Zombine is like a normal zombie, except hes fast, and has the nasty habit 
 of producing live grenades out of nowhere. Next, there are the simple physics/valve/duct/jump puzzles 
 which would be nothing special had the game not tended to spice them up with the occasional Poison 
 Head Crab Surprise or Infinite Zombie Spawn Holocaust sequences. Ive always hated those, but I 
 have to admit that there is one truly thrilling sequence involving infinite zombies which will 
 send your heart racing.
  
  In the disgusting enemy types department, the Starship Trooper-inspired, dog-sized ant lions 
 are back, with a new gameplay convention consisting of plugging up their burrowing holes with cars 
 using the gravity gun. Those sequences are fun, especially one in a parking garage with 3 burrowing 
 holes, and ostensibly 2 cars available for plugging.
  
  Of course, theres still plenty of Combine shooting, as well as some anti-vehicle combat. As usual, 
 the FPS combat is silky-smooth, at least once youve found the right weapon to use. Unfortunately, 
 Half-Life 2s frustrating flaws come into play here. Basically, the weapons havent changed in 
 the slightest. The submachine gun is annoyingly weak, the Overwatch pulse rifle is still unusably 
 inaccurate and still has a tiny clip and no ammo capacity. Most egregiously, grenades still cant 
 be thrown while wielding another gun. Seriously, Valve, guys, cant you take one day out of your 
 busy tech demo making schedule to implement this now-standard gameplay mechanic thatll make the 
 combat maybe 30% more fun? Ugh.
  
  Selecting a weapon is still kind of annoying. Why not just assign a number key per weapon, instead 
 of grouping unrelated weapons under one key? I dont know if its just me, but trying to change 
 weapons in the middle of a battle made me lose lots of health. Thats not to say the game is hard. 
 The difficulty level is about right, but, unfortunately, most of the deaths will probably occur 
 due to the aforementioned inventory juggling issues.
  
  The bright spot of Half-Life 2s weaponry, the gravity gun, triumphantly returns in Episode One. 
 Not only is it still critical for every physics puzzle in the game, it also seems more useful in 
 normal combat than it did in the previous game. It seems like there are more objects available 
 to launch at zombies and shield Gordon from Combine bullets. Theres nothing more fun than dodging 
 filing cabinets thrown at Gordon by zombies, then launching them right back, possibly hitting some 
 fuel barrels and causing big explosive chain reactions.
  
  Making the game much more manageable and fun is the fact that Alyx gets in on much of the action. 
 Youll frequently see her grapple with zombies, rejigger those weird soccer-ball mine thingies 
 that are attracted to Gordon, open doors, operate machinery and gun turrets, provide sniper rifle 
 cover, give advice, and  of course  mow down enemies with her infinite-ammo pistol. Not only 
 is she useful, shes also more or less invincible. True, I actually saw her die once, but Gordon 
 could never survive that many grenades and fuel barrels exploding right in his face.
  
  Overall, the gameplay rating is between an 8 and a 9. The puzzles are an 8; the thinking combat 
 is an 8; the duct crawls are an 8. However, when the game finds that visceral element, where the 
 player can no longer think and must move and shoot or die, where the action flows smoothly and 
 effortlessly, where the difficulty comes from challenge and not the difficulty of the controls, 
 thats when the game gets a 9. Ultimately, its somewhere in-between. 8/10.
  
  Note: The above gameplay score is not affected by stability concerns, but see Conclusion below.
 
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Graphically, HL2 was easily one of the most stunning-looking games ever. Since then, weve seen 
 a number of technically impressive games, like F. E. A. R., Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher 
 Bay, Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, and Oblivion. By comparison, Source is stunted, with static 
 lighting and character models left unmarked by multiple bullet wounds. On the other hand, unlike 
 those other engines, Episode Ones Source is also remarkably forgiving of less than top-of-the-line 
 hardware, even with its extensive High Dynamic Range effects enabled. The game recommended the 
 following settings on the review machine: 1024x768, 2xAA, 4xAF, all effects on High-Quality, HDR 
 enabled. This is on an Athlon 64 3400+ with a GeForce 6800GT and 1GB of RAM, which is quickly becoming 
 the average gamers system. With these settings, the game ran at a smooth frame rate, rarely dipping 
 into the 30s. Trying running something like GRAW and Oblivion at the same settings on that system, 
 and youll be lucky to get a 10fps average.
  
  So, while one must dock it for its technical shortcomings  corridor crawls look especially lifeless 
 due to a lack of dynamic shadows  the engine compensates with its performance and art design, 
 which is still unmatched and superior even to Half-Life 2 itself. Consider the Citadel levels, 
 which were a fairly boring amalgamation of lifeless cold blue. Well, the Citadel comes alive in 
 Episode One, with a rich color palette and incredible particle effects perfectly conveying the 
 fact that the building is bursting at the seams with uncontained energy. Just wait til you see 
 the reactor room again. Meanwhile, the hazy, dusty air of City 17 is equally richly conveyed, especially 
 with the source of the haziness  the degraded Citadel  looming large in the background. Regular 
 building interiors, still sadly lacking in bump mapping, look less amazing artistically, but the 
 textures are as high-resolution as always, so they never look less than convincing. Plus, the facial 
 animations (concentrated purely on Alyx, this time around) are still the best in the business, 
 by far.
  
  Overall, I give the graphics a 9/10. We applaud Valves commitment to presenting a cohesive world 
 at a solid frame rate on realistic hardware.
  
  Note: The above graphics score is not affected by stability concerns, but see Conclusion below.
 
  
  SOUND
  
  While Episode One is a flawed game in a few ways, the sound work here is definitely beyond reproach. 
 Not only is the voice acting simply perfect, but the script is warm, witty, and often quite amusing. 
 Alyxs companionship throughout the game is incredibly important in making Episode One a personally 
 involving experience, unlike the largely cold and sterile Half-Life 2. In the area of sound effects, 
 Episode One again delivers handsomely, with deafening weapon sounds, disturbing zombie wailing, 
 and so on. Oh, and youll always know theres a head crab in the area, because the sounds they 
 make as they crawl around are just gross. Finally, the music  again, a combination of techno 
 and hard rock/metal  is rarely used but works beautifully to underscore the best action sequences. 
 I just wish more action sequences were cool enough to deserve the background music treatment. That 
 way, maybe wed hear it more. 10/10
  
  Note: The above sound score is not affected by the stutter bug, but see Conclusion below.
  
 
  REPLAY VALUE
  
  Episode One is about 6 hours long, for the average player. While there is an optional commentary 
 mode, wherein one can hear developer comments while moving through the game, Im not sure that 
 really counts as added replay value.
  
  The reason is that no matter how many times you replay the game, its going to play out the same 
 way every single time. True, you might kill the same enemies with the gravity gun instead of the 
 SMG, or, perhaps, youll let Alyx do more dirty work, but the point remains: the games areas are 
 usually cramped and limited, and there is basically only one way to approach a battle, choice of 
 weapons aside. I understand why Valve chose to go this way; a heavily linear and scripted game 
 is much easier to manipulate for maximum emotional impact  every encounter has some underlying 
 emotional or visceral impact, which was carefully planned by the developer. Unfortunately, replay 
 value is thus almost completely lost. I believe Valve could here learn quite a bit from Bungie, 
 the makers of Halo.
  
  In short, the game is good for 6 hours of fun for $20. That is below average  worse even than 
 Tomb Raider: Legends 15 hours for $40. 6/10
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode One is a more than worthy successor to Half-Life 2, as it kept all of the 
 latters strengths, and even added some more, such as HDR and far improved character interaction 
 and plot density. The problem is, it hasnt nearly the same bang for the buck  lacking length 
 and new multiplayer features.
  
  Episode One suffers from serious stability issues. I havent mentioned these thus far, to give 
 a clear impression of the game to the average reader, who might not encounter any of these problems. 
 However, there have been reports of widespread crashing problems in the game, experienced on one 
 of twp machines where I tried the game, though not the one used for the review. The game is still 
 incredibly difficult to configure (with minute-long delays making one incorrectly think the PC 
 has crashed) , it still has long (but rarer) load times, and it still has the stutter bug 2 years 
 after Half-Life 2s release, including on the review system. You may or may not get hit by the 
 stutter problem, but if you do, expect distracting hitches before every new explosion sound. Id 
 love to dismiss this as a statistically insignificant problem, but if, 2 years later, people still 
 get this frustrating issue  which also exists in Source-based SiN Episodes: Emergence  the blame 
 has to lie with the engines developer. Whats worse, Steam is as likely to exacerbate the problems 
 as fix them with the mandatory updates that are sure to come in the future.
  
  The final score is 8.5/10, docked by 0.5 points for engine issues, for a total of 8.2/10. Which 
 of the two scores will match your experience depends more or less on how lucky you are.
  
  Pros/cons:
  
  + Beautiful, cohesive sci-fi world, made doubly so by Alyx Vance.
  + A dense 
 plot progression rich in incident.
  + Varied and solid first-person shooter/puzzle gameplay.
  + Well-performing graphics with great 
 art design.
  + Flawless voice acting, witty script, and rocking music.
  + Loading times are rare.
  + Gravity gun!
   Extremely short, even at the low price.
   Very 
 linear combat.
   Lack of dynamic shadows indoors.
   Same old weapons lack punch and are hard to select.
   Grenades cannot be thrown while wielding 
 a gun.
   Possibility of stability problems.
   Possibility of stutter bug. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bodylotion
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 11, 2006 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Story begins where Half Life 2 ends. Gordon and Alyx have to escape from the city because the huge 
 tower will cause some kind of nuclear reaction. Besides that they also want to rescue as many people 
 as possible.
  
  Half Life 2 contains no new weapons and only one new enemy, what isn't a real new enemy actually 
 but an improved one. So what does make Half Life 2 Episode One Interesting?
  
  I would say that this game is quite interesting if you have played Half life 2 and liked it, otherwise 
 leave it. It's true that the game is not that huge as Half Life 2 but that's why this one is around 
 20 bucks. Also you must feel like to buy the other 2 addons as well because it doesn't feel complete 
 when finishing the game.
  
  The best part of the game would be the dark places where the monsters are crawling on u and you 
 constantly have to check where they are, kinda like Doom 3.
  
  I hope i helped someone with this little review. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nodham
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 11, 2006 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2: Episode 1 continues the story of Half Life 2 and apparently takes place several minutes 
 (perhaps hours) after the end of the aforementioned opus. Despite having a picture of Alyx on the 
 front, you will once again only be controlling Gordon Freeman The Mute through the short but sweet 
 adventure. Promises of expanding characters other than Freeman go unfulfilled, the only thing that 
 really expands in this game is your arsenal. 
  
  Episode 1 runs with the Half Life 2 formula yet manages to add a few new twists on the familiar 
 gameplay. There's a new zombie combine enemy (effectively a boxing suicide bomber) and situations 
 rarely call for you to just kill everything in sight as there are usually secondary objectives 
 to achieving a goal. One sequence that's fiendishly difficult yet brilliantly conceived has you 
 battling wave after wave of zombies in an pitch-black underground complex. Alyx will help you fend 
 the baddies off, but she has to have a target to shoot at, so your time is spent illuminating foes 
 for her while you try desperately to defend yourself from attack as a rickety elevator chugs its 
 way down to save you. I didn't much care for the Ravenholme section of Half Life 2, yet played 
 through this sequence with glee. The key of Episode 1's maintaining interest and originality is 
 that it never lets you get too bored of one scenario before moving on to the next. This translates 
 into a very short playing time, but on the other hand you'll never find yourself saying 'this has 
 gone on quite awhile now.' Therein lies the Episode 1 conundrum. Surely you've read enough complaints 
 about the game's short playing time, mainly because it can be beaten in one day or even half, depending 
 on how early you start or late you finish. The game lasted me for about a week, but this was due 
 to the fact that I played sporadically, aware that to rush through the game would serve no purpose 
 except disappointment. I won't try to justify the price tag - Episode 1 isn't quite the bargain 
 other games are at that price. However, you are paying for the name on the box - the Half Life 
 universe has become an unstoppable institution and a brand name in itself. Compared to online multiplayer 
 games, downloadable content for your favourite RTS, or even that other Gaming Institution, Grand 
 Theft Auto, Episode 1 comes up very short. 
  
  The areas you'll explore in Episode 1 aren't anything you haven't seen before. We've all been at 
 train stations, around and in the citadel, and in dilapidated buildings. So while the areas themselves 
 aren't anything to write home about, the detail within them brings them alive as believably as 
 it did in Half Life 2. It also packs many a sight into these places. To list any would ruin them 
 so suffice to say while other games are content with having you get from A to B, Episode 1's excellent 
 scripted sequences and deviations from the obvious path will keep you on your toes from start to 
 finish. Alyx's presence also lends a different feel to the game - you're not just travelling from 
 NPC to NPC. However, Alyx's hardiness may surprise you. While there are areas where she can be 
 killed, she can hold her own for the vast majority of engagements. In fact, there are times when 
 you may wonder which of the two of you is wearing the Hazard Suit as she downs another group of 
 attackers while getting sprayed with grenade shrapnel. Ow, she cries. Indeed. 
  
  The game ends on something of a cliffhanger but to me it wasn't nearly as annoying as Half Life 
 2. There is a sense of closure to the episode but enough to show you the battle is far from over. 
 Half Life 2 had you pulled out of stasis to destroy something, only to put back into stasis once 
 the job was complete. No explanations. Episode 1 has you escaping the city - you're not expecting 
 to meet a insect-munching wise hermit that will divulge the universe's secrets, so the absence 
 of explanation is easier to stomach. 
  
  Half Life 2: Episode 1 more than measures up to the standards set by its predecessor. It's inventive, 
 it's atmospheric, and it's a blast to play. There's nothing here you haven't seen before, but when 
 it's all such high-caliber game design, there's really not much to complain about, other than the 
 length. Yes, for a game, it's not the best deal around. Compared to other luxury entertainment, 
 however, it holds its own. A captivating sci-fi epic with you as the lead? You don't get that at 
 the multiplex anymore. 
  
  Episode 1 is a treat to be savoured instead of gobbled. Nevertheless, here's to hoping Episode 
 2 runs a little longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benhenthorn
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2006 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Ever since Half-Life came out I've loved anything and everything about the series. I had all of 
 the games (Opposing Force, Blue Shift, Counter Strike, ect.) and couldn't get enough of them. Then 
 Half-Life 2 came out and reinforced my love for the series by bringing new graphics and game play 
 at my fingertips, although it was 7 years later. Now Valve has decided to release episodic content 
 which releases new episodes every 18 months rather than 7 years. Half-Life 2: Episode One is the 
 first in a trilogy of episodes and doesn't disappoint. The game is beautiful, taking advantage 
 of new graphics technologies like HDR. I played through it once and had to play through it again 
 and listen to the commentary, which is essential for any Half-Life lover. The only drawback with 
 episodic content is that the episodes are way too short, only providing 4-6 hours of game play, 
 satisfying none the less. And as with any Half-Life game the ending leaves you wanting more, and 
 I'll be ready when it Episode Two comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hevid
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 11, 2006 10:26 am PT
Review:  after the great HL2 this feels kinda.. empty
  while HL2 has such a great story episode one feels like there aint no story at all..
  it is basicly 
 just shooting your way thru everything and kill everything that moves
  Ofc the graphics are still very awesome
  and so does the sound.. all the old voice actors have 
 returned to speak in the great characters voices
  the gameplay feels the same as half life 2 only without the story u dont feel totally sucked into 
 the game.. and with his extremly short lenght (4 hours gameplay top) it doesnt give u that boost 
 u want
  also the game gets pretty predictable becuase later on u already know what is going to happen or 
 where the enemies will come from
  
  If u liked HL2 u will def like this one
  for a 19 euro's it is worth buying but dont expect too much out of it.. it aint a full new game
 
  the good thing is that episode 2 will arrive much faster then a whole new game :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 11, 2006 7:51 am PT
Review:  the end in half life 2 episode 1 was full of secrets that we didint know were 
  they gone to the forest but what forest and the citidal what happen to her why she distroyed in 
 the end and why the dropship escape to the forest why the forest there a trailer when you finish 
 half life 2 episod 1 did you see him the train that gorden get in distroyed who destroy it what 
 happen to gorden and alix
  alix will fall from the train and a monster will take her and help her and what is happen to the 
 g-man he is a man from uknown place and the father of alix
  what happen to him and i saw in the trailer new monsters and robots came 
  to kill every one 
 in the forest who rule them the combine many answers and many sluation will be in half life episode 
 2 and im waiting for it 
  
  and please valve make it fast and finish it  ..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ciremi
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 10, 2006 9:10 pm PT
Review:  For those of you who originally played through Half Life 2 there is no doubt in my mind that you 
 were satisfied with the ending. No, they did not shoot the dog in the end (who could possibly shoot 
 Dog?) and despite the fact that you saw dead people, (albeit, coming back to life) Bruce Willis 
 simply was not one of themunfortunately. Basically, what you missed in the last game and are treated 
 to in this one is that the Vortiguants rescued you and Alyx and placed you directly outside of 
 the Citadel. Why they wouldnt place you in a tropical resort is beyond me
  
  The game opens with you and Alyx waking up and obtaining one very important objectiveget out of 
 the city before the Citadel explodes taking all of City 17 with it. This begins your first episode 
 to end the chapter which is Half Life 2.
  
  Not much has changed since the last Half Life installment, the controls are still the game, and 
 the graphics are pleasing and surprisingly good considering how old certain graphics cards can 
 be some machines. The character models do look a little polished up, and there is a lot more action 
 on-screen this time around including particles falling from the sky, very animated telemonitors 
 and well-scripted events that can either leave you at ease or tensed up.
  
  In fact, the game is really good at keeping you tense at all times. Mysteriously youve lost all 
 of your weapons from the previous game, so youll start up with only the ever-popular gravity gun. 
 You only obtain another firearm after you leave the Citadel, but that is no problem considering 
 that the fine folks at Valve have placed a nice amount of flotsam and other chuck-able items for 
 you to toss at the Combine soldiers. Many of the locales are pretty dark, so youll definitely 
 be getting your moneys worth out of that hazard suit flashlight, providing you only with a small 
 circular light in the center of your screen. Failure to keep the light on and the enemies come 
 running. In other instances youll be bombarded by a ceaseless (literally) number of enemies with 
 several mini-objectives at hand. Not to spoil the surprise, but the Antlions you once called your 
 allies are no longer, and they tend to come in packs of infinite number, at least until you find 
 some way to plug up their burrow. Other events which put your vision on a rail-guided perspective 
 also lend a hand to make the game seem tense. Another great moment of complete terror and tension, 
 I will mention only, is the train car full of Stalkersno spoiling on my behalf.
  
  Luckily you will not be alone on this excursion, trekking out of City 17. Alyx Vance is with you 
 every step of the way, and she is truly a strong character who keeps things light. You never feel 
 completely alone because she is mostly there shooting by your side, ready to help you in any way 
 necessary. Even better, there is no friendly fire, so youll never kill her, nor would you ever 
 want to. She also provides the player with the best boosts of self-esteem and confidence with sayings 
 such as that was amazing or the more common, great shot! Voice actor Merle Dandridge definitely 
 makes Alyx Vance very much alive and real, both with excellent delivery and believable acting. 
 Then again, she really has to, considering that she is the only one out of the two of you who actually 
 speaks.
  
  One of my gripes with the series has always been how Dr. Gordon Freeman does not speak at all. 
 Die-hard fans of the game most likely do not care, but I personally feel no connection with Gordon, 
 and if I were Alyx Vance, Id definitely try to coerce him into speaking. Despite the fact that 
 the image of Gordon Freeman has been seen on game boxes, boasting a look of J. D. Roth spliced with 
 a grown-up Daniel Radcliffe, there are no working mirrors in which you can view your reflection, 
 which adds to the real lack of intimateness with the character of Gordon Freeman. However, to the 
 fans, you ARE Gordon Freemanyoure not playing him.
  
  When it comes to the execution of a game, Half Life 2, (both in episode and full-length game) is 
 a genuine display of Murphys Law, counteracted (rarely) with Deus Ex Machina. Although it enhances 
 your adrenaline when the right goes wrong it can sometimes be too predictable and played out. On 
 multiple occasions the player will fall through the floor (as a staged event) and have to backtrack 
 back to where you were, which is a bit of an annoyance for a game that is always moving you forward 
 and never looking back. What if the folks at Valve just once made something actually go right? 
 Suppose those monsters banging at the glass door just never busted through at all, leaving you 
 to wonder whether they were supposed to or not? That would definitely be a surpriseI bet that 
 the players wouldnt even be expecting that, unlike the typical  
 scenario.
  
  One of the little things that I liked about the full-length Half Life 2 which was missing in this 
 episodic installment was the use of anecdotes and stories. Does anyone remember the beginning of 
 Half Life 2, where the woman at the train station asks about whether you and the other three gentlemen 
 were the only passengers aboard the train, then proceeds to divulge to you that she was waiting 
 for him?. Or how about the number of citizens informing you and one another about what is occurring 
 and why things are happening the way they are. These people are missing a lot of background in 
 this episode, and they dont really say too much except that they dont dream anymore, take a 
 med kit, and that the war will never be over. I heard one say I miss the combine, but there 
 was not enough to follow through with more dialogue. The humor of the game is still mostly provided 
 by Alyx, Barney, and Dr. Kleiner, which softens up the tension after a long hours worth of killing, 
 jumping, killing, and more killing. 
  
  I digress, as that is not all you do in this episodic installment. There is a lot of the same thing, 
 however, as the previous game, which will make you feel right at home. Unfortunately, due to the 
 absence of any real antagonist, the mood doesnt necessarily always feel like youre in any real 
 danger of getting caught up in a massive explosion. I understand that these episodes are designed, 
 like an episode of 24, to only shed some light onto the bigger picture, but every episode requires 
 a plot structure to it. There doesnt necessarily need to be a rising action, falling action, and 
 climax, but these episodes should be individual in themselves, making them more memorable; 
  
  We can only look forward to future installments of the Half Life 2 series, hoping that the 
 bigger picture is revealed even further in the next episode.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DLB2
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 10, 2006 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Playing Half-Life 2 was like taking part in your favorite science-fiction movie. The slow and deliberate 
 pacing of the game consisted of intense gun battles against the Combine, punctuated by frantic 
 struggles to survive onslaughts of headcrab zombies. Added to the mix were eerily serene moments 
 of calm where the silence seemed to press in on top of you, threatening at any second another brush 
 with death. 
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode One is Half-Life 2, distilled. That is, it is a much more refined and intense 
 experience. If the movie analogy works for HL2, then Episode One could best be compared to a ride 
 on a roller-coaster: the entire time spent playing is exhilarating, barely-controlled chaos. 
 
  
  Everyone who played HL2 has memories of the game's epic moments. The confusion of the G-Man's opening 
 monologue, the unarmed flight from the Combine over the rooftops of City 17, the first moment that 
 a fellow resistance fighter shouted "Strider!" and the bone-chilling roar as the titanic creature 
 crashed into view. Episode One is nearly entirely composed of those moments. 
  
  The gameplay is heavily action-oriented, with some fairly challenging puzzles thrown in for good 
 measure. The HL2 arsenal is available in Episode One entirely unchanged. The only notable addition, 
 is Alyx's side-arm that she uses through most of the game, and unfortunately can't be used by the 
 player. What this says about the HL2 weaponry is that it was and still is exceptionally well-rounded, 
 and the addition of another gun might have seemed unnecessary. 
  
  As for enemies, the most noticeable inclusion to Episode One are the Zombines, or Combine forces 
 turned into zombies by the headcrab's corrupting embrace. Not only are the Zombines tougher than 
 their less armored counterparts, but they also have the most annoying habit of charging madly forward 
 with an armed grenade clutched in their hands. Fortunately, it's nothing the gravity gun can't 
 solve. 
  
  Episode One's graphics are more or less the same as HL2. That is to say, some of the best to be 
 found in a video game. The facial animation system seems to have been refined, as well some of 
 the shaders and textures in the game. The carapaces of the ant-lions and the headcrab's hides now 
 have a very alluring shine to them, which should be admired only when the beasts have stopped moving... 
 The environments of Episode One are just as gorgeous as those of HL2, if somewhat more enclosed-feeling 
 due to the linearity of the level design. 
  
  The voice acting of Episode One is also superb. Alyx receives most of the dialogue in the game, 
 resulting in a surprising amount of development of her character. Despite the fact that in HL2 
 Alyx was more of a bystander to the main story, in Episode One she is at Gordon's side constantly, 
 providing some genuinely funny comments that ease the tension of the game. The music in Episode 
 One is subtle, as it was in HL2, but seems even less a part of the entire experience, with fewer 
 crescendos noting the major moments of the story. 
  
  The debate surrounding the value of episodic games in general (and Episode One in particular) is 
 fairly heated. Some say that it cannot be taken into account in the same perspective that it is 
 applied to "full-length" games. But unfortunately, it has to be done. 
  
  Before any episodic games had been released, I had concerns about the amount of gameplay that the 
 player could hope to get out of an episodic title. But I was pleased to say that SiN Episodes: 
 Emergence changed my mind. For the $18 price, I was able to enjoy that game for around 7 hours 
 on my first time through. Half-Life 2: Episode One on the other hand, I finished in less than five 
 hours. 
  
  The length of the game is largely due to the very fast pacing. Intensity is something that is hard 
 to sustain, particularly in a game, without the experience becoming mundane or overly difficult. 
 And that fact is really what makes Half-Life 2: Episode One all the more impressive. Valve has 
 attempted to provide a driven, cinematic story while still offering a fun gameplay experience. 
 And in both of those attempts, they have succeeded 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 281538960
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 10, 2006 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Half life 2: episode one is oine of the best games to date for the PC cause it offers everythimg 
 you could expect from the previous half life titles the game is just fum sooter that we could all 
 enjoy and i am grateful for the the game is the continuation from the half life 2 and the story 
 leads on from where we left off in the last game the graphics and gameplay improved and the new 
 weapons sseem authentic so i gladly give this game 9.2 it is worth your time and your money so 
 go buy and enjoy
  Thank you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: latino_rock
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 10, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 Episode One is, by far the best chapter in the Half-Life series. The game play is somewhat 
 familiar to the previous game, but the developers have definetely tweaked it out to perfection 
 this time around. The art in the game is, as always top notch and real to life. A great addition 
 to the game is the integration of Alyx as your right hand (wo) man. She is very useful in tight 
 situations and can most definetely kick some serious butt. The A. I. feels a bit smarter, but at 
 times it feels like their just standing there waiting for you to shoot them. All in all, the game 
 is wonderful other than the fact that it's extremely short. But then again, for the price of the 
 game it delivers far beyond expected. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobsmith12
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 10, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  I'm sorry that all of you said this game was to short, wasn't different enough and more just general 
 complaints. The only real complaint I have is how long it took to get done so we can play it. I 
 have to admit that I wasn't even expecting near as good as we got, at first when I heard the episode 
 thing I though it would be some kind of marketing ploy to get up to play more money for half assed 
 content that they could always fix via steam. Granted since it was Valve I was hoping to be proved 
 wrong and well I was basically just hit upside the head with a crowbar! I thought this was basically 
 a good way to say goodbye to City 17 and what a goodbye, because there is nothing left to go back 
 to. I'm a big RPG fan and really suck at FPS so I always play on easy but I'm really not looking 
 for the action what really has me excited is the story of the whole game, and I just can't wait 
 for episode 2. For those who say the game isn't long enough just going through in commentary mode 
 was worth the 20 bucks for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 666sinboy81
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 10, 2006 1:36 pm PT
Review:  xbox 360 controller tease!! make it work better then i will be 100 percent happy you dooshlords! 
 this game is good well worth the 20 bux tight gameplay fun to continue from last game lighting 
 rox sounds blazez leaves you thirsty for something bigger ... people are soo tight on reveiws these 
 days geeez ... lets see you make a game , also ive been playing monster hunter on psp and bloodrayne 
 2 on pc and puzzle link 2 on neo geo pocket and last blade 2 or under defeat le import on dreamcast 
 ... anyways if you have steam and all that junk its a no brainer to get this if dont want to pay 
 20 will prob come down in price cheap ass or be included with some other new content in the future 
 ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomTeboda
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 10, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  First off let's get that name out of the way. Originally HL2: EP1 was named Half-Life2: Aftermath, 
 to me a much cooler an more logical name. I don't understand how HL2: EP1 was approved, because 
 it's not true. HL2: EP1 is NOT the first part of HL2, it's a continuation of the HL2 story, so how 
 could it be Episode One? I understand that they wanted to get the "Episode" in there to show that 
 this is episodic content and the "One" because this is the first in a three-part extension of the 
 HL2 story-arch. But they should of gone with "Half-Life - Aftermath; Episode One", granted it's 
 pretty long, but I mean we've seen worse, like last years "Peter Jackson's King Kong; The Official 
 Game of the Movie" and when it comes to confusing number combinations there's greats like: "Winning 
 Eleven 7" and "Final Fantasy X-2", and there's those that have both like "Tom Clancy's Rainbow 
 Six 3: Raven Shield" but I digress, you can't judge a book by it's cover and you certainly can't 
 judge a game by it's name, so let's move on.
  
  Episode One picks up right where HL2 left off, so if you haven't finished HL2 I would suggest you 
 do so before moving on to EP1 and there are potential spoilers beyond this point if you don't know 
 how HL2 ends, However it's not much of a secret, and I'm not going to go into any details. Basically 
 HL2 has a cliche ending, where a reactor is about to blow, but instead of the protagonist narrowly 
 escaping in the end, the game ends with a cliff-hanger, with several questions left un-answered. 
 In EP1 you are coupled with Alyx and to a certain degree her pet-robot DOG, together you must escape 
 from City17 before the reactor-core in the Citadel blows.
  
  The environments are familiar and so are the weapons and most of the enemies, so if you just finished 
 HL2 you might want to wait a while before playing EP1 unless you really just couldn't get enough 
 of it. However EP1 does bring some new things to the table, there are some interesting new enemies, 
 such as combine-zombies, or "zombines" as Alyx jokingly calls them. Speaking of Alyx, she is with 
 you for about 90% of the game, in what Valve is calling "single-player Co-op". The AI for Alyx 
 as well as other characters has been improved, and very seldom does she do anything stupid or irritating. 
 In the heat of battle she is in full control, and many times she will save your life when you're 
 short on ammo or tasked with solving a puzzle while enemies are advancing on the two of you. The 
 only times her AI gets confused is when you're moving back and forth through tight areas, she sometimes 
 gets in you way, or your line of fire. Fortunately friendly-fire isn't possible, but this does 
 break the suspension-of-disbelief.
  
  Being the biggest benefit of first-person games, the suspension-of-disbelief is much greater than 
 in third-person or "god-view". I really have problems with scarry games, I just couldn't cope with 
 Alien Vs. Predator and had some reservations about playing RE4, to my relief, this game was actually 
 not very scary, it was creepy and gory but rarely scare in part because of the third-person view. 
 Half-Life 2 on the other hand really creeped me out a couple of times, the Ravenholm section especially 
 comes to mind. It's amazing that one can become so emerged in a game that it frightens you, I mean, 
 it just a game! What's even stranger is that having Alyx by your side has the same effect as being 
 there with another person, the section where you're moving through complete darkness with little 
 more than a flash-light with way too short battery-life to light your way with head-crab zombies 
 and combies thrashing at you, you feel oddly more secure with her there! I guess it's just like 
 watching a scary movie, it doesn't get really scary until the main character is completely alone.
 
  
  Most of the puzzles (or maybe challenges is a better term, since it is usually pretty easy to figure 
 out what to do, and more a challenge to execute them as you are often attacked while trying to 
 open a gate, move across a court-yard or cover-up an ant-lion hole) are designed so that you will 
 need Alyx's assistance to complete them, this brings a new dynamic to the series, one reminiscent 
 of the co-op levels of Sprint Cell: Pandora's Tomorrow. These are all well thought out and fun 
 to perform.
  
  When it comes to the Havoc system, it's amazing how quickly you get used to having physics in games. 
 When I first played HL2 I was amazed by the physics and spent time playing around with it. This 
 time around I take it completely for granted and a game can definitely not survive on physics tricks 
 alone anymore (not that HL2 did mind you) . Valve is well aware of this, and the focus on the physics 
 is definitely not as pronounced as before, though it is definitely utilized through-out.
  
  I was surprised by the difficulty level of the game, the enemies are fairly aggressive right off 
 the bat, even though you are helped by frequent med-kits in the first section of the game. Valve 
 has either found a good balance between introducing the game to new-comers and returning players 
 alike or it just happens to suit me very well. I never really got stuck anywhere, but I did need 
 to retry some sections several times before successfully moving on, making the game challenging 
 enough without frustration.
  
  EP1 is just as sleek and well done with excellent voice-acting, story, art-style and level-design 
 as the original HL2, but it doesn't bring all that much new to the table and the physics aren't 
 as impressive nowadays. For $19.95 on Steam it's well worth it in my mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smpb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 10, 2006 7:55 am PT
Review:  Everyone knows how the Half-Life franchise is huge in the world of video games. It came out with 
 a bang back in 1998 and has since made a name of it's own, gained respect and a massive amount 
 of fans. Given that, every time a new title comes out expectations are at their fullest. 
  
  After the convoluted release of it's parent title, Half-Life 2, it's good to see this latest 
 installment coming out smoothly and with the adequate fanfare. Episode One, as the name implies, 
 is the first in a series of episodic releases that follow Gordon Freeman's exploits after the dramatic, 
 and inconclusive, ending of Half-Life 2. This format, that takes part of a phenomenon that has 
 been growing as of late, has it's strengths but also quite a few weaknesses. The obvious ones (in 
 both categories respectively) are, of course, the smaller waiting times for sequels and, opposing 
 it, the shorter length of the whole experience. Episode One lives and breathes these characteristics, 
 and as long as you set your expectations accordingly, you're in for one hell of a ride.
  
  The game starts right after the ending of Half-Life 2. Not soon after that, you're back in the 
 action, fighting the Combine in a struggle to flee City 17 before it's unavoidable demise takes 
 you with it. The first thing that you'll immediately notice is the fact that you're not alone this 
 time. Alyx Vance, whom you meet in Half-Life 2, is with you and plays and essential part in keeping 
 you alive throughout the game. This "duo dynamic" brings a breath of fresh air into the game without 
 it losing it's roots. If anything, Episode One is closer to the original Half-Life than even Half-Life 
 2. Back, in full force, are the puzzle/platforming aspect of the series, which serve the purposes 
 of making the game stretch a bit longer, help it be more varied, and mostly to strike the old-time 
 fans with and unquestionable sense of nostalgia.
  Also, the Gravity Gun sets in definitively as the worthy successor of the crowbar when it comes 
 to the title of Freeman's iconic weapon of choice. The crowbar is noticeable absent from most of 
 the first part of the game, and the dimension of that simple weapon's impact in this franchise 
 hits you in full strength as you find yourself wondering what could have possibly happened to you 
 little "friend". In regards to the Gravity Gun, it's worth mentioning that it plays and even more 
 important part this time around, as you will be using it a lot throughout the game.
  
  Gameplay-wise, you'll find that everything remains mostly unchanged which, in the end, is good. 
 Fans of the series will feel right at home and, even though you have Alyx now to help you, things 
 aren't all that different. Alyx is a worthy ally, and a great help, as she proves to be quite proficient 
 in dispatching a multitude of foes without getting too much in your way. She's so good, in fact, 
 that the game's difficulty suffers a bit with it. Half-Life 2 wasn't a particularly hard game (except, 
 perhaps, for the infamous stand-off with the Combine soldiers in Nova Prospekt) but Episode One 
 proves to be even easier. Alyx's seemingly infinite ammo supply and her impressive resilience (she's 
 notoriously hard to kill, but it can happen) tones down the difficulty greatly.
  
  When it comes to the graphics, the Source Engine proves to be aging rather well. The game looks 
 great, and the character's expressiveness (specially Alyx's) is still very impressive. The small 
 additions to the engine help it greatly to keep up with the natural technological evolution.
  The sound is worth a special mention. Even though the game's soundtrack isn't as sharp as it could 
 be, proving to be somewhat too intrusive at times, the voice work is perfect. All of the original 
 cast is all back for another round and they perform as good as ever.
  
  The game suffers, though, in it's replay value. Even though the story does progress a little bit, 
 and even though the ending isn't as "painful" as the one before it, once you've seen it, you've 
 seen it. Not much can be added with the needed care and attention, given the game's short length. 
 This is probably the single greatest flaw of this sort of content, but, it's the nature of the 
 beast. As such, Episode One does a great job circumventing those limitations. The experience is 
 rich and worthwhile, and while not completely new, it's exactly what you'd expect from an Half-Life 
 title.
  
  In short, Episode One is a game easily recommended for a few hours of fun and excitement, though 
 playing (in the very least) Half-Life 2 is required to make full sense of the story's development. 
 It's mostly a release tailored for the fans that have been following the series, and in that regard 
 it fulfills such task adequately. 
  If you're a fan, you shouldn't miss it. If you aren't, maybe it's time you become one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mule-Boy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 11, 2006 1:12 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2: Episode One is just so amazing, fun, exciting and best looking Half-Life or i guess 
 any game ever made! Ohh man it is cool!!! The story line picks up where Half-Life 2 ended, there 
 are lots of cool and really interesting parts where you learn alot about the Half-Life universe. 
 The game is really intense in fire fights and where you only have the Gravity gun and you can pick 
 the Combine Soldiers up with it! The graphics have been drastically improved since the last game. 
 The new HDR (High Dynamic Range) effects made the game look so much better, trust me! The graphics 
 are awsome. Anyway, the start of the game is really cool when you sit in a smashed up car and Dog 
 (Alyx's pet robot dog, it is huge and powerful) throws you over a cliff to the other side. It is 
 just so exciting. Aswell the price it really cheap for such an awsome game. The only problem is 
 the length, it is about half the length of Half-Life 2. It doesn't last long enough! But it still 
 is great while it lasts
  
  Great Stuff about the game:
  Improved graphics
  Exciting
  Great and interesting story line
  'Big bad ass' guns
  Just plain fun and cool
  Budget Price
 
  
  Bad Stuff about the game:
  Kinda' short
  No new guns in the game, but the guns are still cool
  
  This game is highly recommended by 
 myself and alot of others, you really should get it soon. You will not regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: COOLGUYALEX127
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 9, 2006 9:43 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. I agree that it is very short, but i picked my copy up for $14.99 at Target. 
 The graphics are great, the game play is wonderful, one of the best sounding games I own, and highly 
 addictive because it is so much fun. Just talking about it makes me want to play it right now! 
 I have never bought such a great game with such high production value for so cheap! I believe this 
 is a steal... thank you Valve! I definitely recommend picking this up, especially if you are a FPS 
 fan. Go buy it... now, you won't be mad at me, and you won't regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YakumoWarZ
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 9, 2006 8:51 pm PT
Review:  Wow, that was quick. I enjoyed this game alot but didn't like the shortness. But for $20 who can 
 really complain. I've been playing HalfLife since the original and love this story. Episode 1 picks 
 up literally where Half-Life 2 left you hanging. It was nice to be able to close the Half-Life 
 2 with out loosing our main characters. But what is up with the story between the G-Man and the 
 aliens? Crazy.... Well, this game is a blast to play and deepens the story of Half-Life. I can't 
 wait to see what happens in the next episode!! Get this if you like Half Life at all. Great Game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlankerDFMax
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 9, 2006 7:43 pm PT
Review:  It's been awhile since I played HL2 , so I'd forgotten how good the graphics engine is, and how 
 well the code is optimized. Looks great, runs smooth! Still the best facial animations and lip 
 synching I've seen in a game. I'd also forgoten how scripted and linear a game this is................ very 
 well done, but the mission path is still mounted on rails and you ARE NOT going to use any of your 
 own ingenuity to solve a level through open ended game play, ala the GTA series. I thought the 
 first level (getting out of the citadel) was WAY tedious, especially given that you've only got 
 the gravity gun; though things liven up when you collect your pistola and scattergun early in the 
 second level. Did I mention Alyx flirts with ALOT in this game. LOL! If you liked HL 2, this is 
 a very worthy, though too short, sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: o_p_e_n_s_i_l_o
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 9, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  if you liked half life 2, BUY THIS GAME. the commentary is pure gold to any videogame fan. the 
 insights into the development and production of hl2-episode 1 is priceless and informative. puzzles 
 are better, and youll find that the makers have further honed their storytelling and game-making 
 skills. The first true "cinematic" for the HL series (save possibly the intro to HL2) is dazzling 
 and (as it is said in the commentary) still informative. graphics are updated, HL deathmatch source 
 is included... man your mouth should be watering now. plus, you get to see HDR in action. youll 
 just wish there was more, but the commentary helps lengthen the game. all in all, just buy it already. 
 episodic content is the future (or at least a cool idea) , and this looks to be the first good game 
 to come out like this. the only thing wrong is the length, but its not supposed to be a full game. 
 i dont relaly think its "perfect" but it is perfect in the 5 places you rate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psiphor
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 9, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Here at last... More Half-Life 2 gameplay to get our teeth into.
  
  Yes the new HDR lighting, visuals in general, A. I., and Dialogue/Story are all great and the game 
 plays just like the first game (Except of course, you don't get to shoot as many enemies, because 
 Alyx bless her, does a lot of this for you) , which is good.
  
  The not so good...
  
  I found the introductory exposition too long and ultimately unnecessary... All we really need to 
 know is that we need to escape City 17, that Dr Mossman is in jeopardy (Not that we get to do anything 
 about it in this Episode) , the G-Man is apparently under the control (containment) of the Vortigonts.
 
  
  There was talk from Valve some months ago that we'd be doing much more with the Gravity Gun. More 
 yes, but I saw nothing new with this. I actually found it annoying that I had no guns until a fair 
 way into the game, instead relying on Alyx to shoot for me. This admittedly lead to some novel 
 gameplay like the dark zone. (If you've played this, you'll know what I'm talking about.)
  
  I found that I missed the Combine soldiers of HL2. The "Zombines" are just uninspiring and 
 no substitute, and the Stalkers are distinctly lacking in menace and too easily dispatched. Overall, 
 the game is too easy, too short and I don't feel it develops on the game of the original as much 
 as I'd expected.
  
  All negatives aside though, it's a great game in itself simply because it's more of Half-Life 2 
 and manages to maintain the great playability of that classic. 
  
  Playing the game through again (Partially at least) with the commentary nodes enabled is interesting. 
 We lay-people just don't appreciate the effort and design dilemmas that go into making games such 
 as this. I recommend you check these out.
  
  If you liked HL2, you'll like this 'cos it's essentially more of the same with a few extras... 
 If you've never played HL2, get this as a budget taster... It's not as challenging/intense or deep 
 as the first game, but good nonetheless while it lasts. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyteborg
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 9, 2006 4:14 pm PT
Review:  A serious disappointment, that's what I call it.
  
  The graphics, with HDR, look good. But if that's all it has to offer, well, then it really wasn't 
 worth the wait.
  
  The gameplay is as good as HL2. But it offers nothing new, no new challenges. Same old situations 
 all over again.
  
  The most disappointing factor is the length of the game. I started playing it at 7 PM the very 
 first day, and was finished well before midnight. Huh? Did my game crash or something? Did I only 
 download half?? Is it finished yet???
  
  Rip off of the century. After playing HL, in all its conceptions, ever since the very first version, 
 I think I'll skip Valve's new products from now on... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rutgerbijlsma
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 9, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  I own all of the half life games so far, and I like all of them. But Episode 1 is my favorite, 
 it has all the positive things from Half life 2, and makes up some of the not so great things of 
 Half life 2. And yes the game is short, but if you really go out there and do everything there 
 is to do it will take you somewhere around 5 hours. 5 hours of wonderful game play isn't bad at 
 all at 20 dollars, think about it, if the next episodes are all sold for 20 bucks and take 5 hours 
 to complete, it forms a 15 hour game for 60 dollars, which is about the standard price for a computer 
 game over here in The Netherlands. About the game itself, its short but great fun, and a lot of 
 fun to replay. II really like the way they fitted Alyx into the whole game, she doesn't get in 
 the way, she is help full but not immortal, whatever she says is use full and funny at times. (She 
 better not die in Episode 2 or 3 lolz.)
  
  I think Half life 2: episode 1 is a great game if Half life 2 entertained you but left you craving 
 for more. For newcomers to the Half life series, I would recommend you to play Half life 2 first, 
 or else you won't know what Episode 1 is all about (story-wise) .
  
  I played Half life 2: episode 1 on a Packard Bell computer,
  with a:
  2.6 Ghz Pentium 4 processor
 
  1024 MB RAM 
  and an ATI 9550 Gamers Edition Video card (256 MB of video Memory)
  
  It ran pretty smooth throughout the whole game, and looked great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FranKrig
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jul 23, 2006 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Hl.2 is a REAL GRATE GAME no doubt and all of Hl.1 to also I think HL. Coast is a smashing eider, 
 but I thought that cost wear a part of episode one, but no episode one is only a part of making 
 money it seams and trying to hang on to the Doom 3 success.
  But why they dont neat to hang on to others success that there own, and they really did miss it 
 this time.
  
  So welcome to the new developers of Doom 4. 
  Here you have the mega super-monsters. And you can kick ass a hour or six and neat no brains to 
 do so.
  Dont worry; heirs no environment ore story enjoy be curse you dont have the time to do so anyway. 
 
  Also like DUMP 3 you dont neat a big graphic-cart or huge monitor. So my advice is by the chipset 
 and smallest cart and monitor 6` or less might do, then the flashlight isnt speeding the light 
 more that just a small centre dot on the screen.
  
  Now to the clumsy partner you have to levee whit. Shes really right when she says that her father 
 should have change the battery on the flashlight YES. But why didnt the game programmer do so 
 in stead.  Or why doesnt she let throw it away for good so she can cook you and serve you to 
 the 100.000.000.000.000.000.00000 DUMP 3 monsters for a romantic diner IN THE DARK.
  
  About her: I'm not able to kill her sad enough. But sometimes the game bugs and shes atlas! getting 
 stocked somewhere, so your able to move freely around whiteout no stupid and egoistic GIRLYBOT 
 pushing you around all the time, when she's not standing in the doorway or corridor where woy have 
 no other exit than the way shes blocking. 
  And we all know the modern girly she has a mind of her own so you dont get her to move at all!!!!.
 
  Also she love to shove how a modern girly has all deferent situations under control, and she also 
 knows how to handle a gun, even it means the gamer have to shoot her in the back of her head, whit 
 out killing anyone at all. NO you only do see her in the front of your gun the most of the time, 
 whit an attitude like; Im also got look at me Im got Yeaahh and she's acting like a 12 year 
 old girly fan of Gordon Freeman. No doubt she blocks the point-blanc again and again.
  
  Like DUMP 3, Heres a mega-monster no-brain shooter game for the blind gamers
  So long LIVE our 
 new Dump 4 GIRLY Designers.
  
  Okay theirs still some storyline intact. And the graphic is astonishing like coast and HL.2
  
 But I really dont think that this is the REAL game. But only a teaser to keep the fans to the 
 fire and patient, I do hope that the real thing will be seen in a year or two years. 
  So VAVE be aver the guns easily gets turned back at your self again, and then it nets quid some 
 time and money to recover.
  
  Ps. keep on smiling, relax and laugh when you do see a JOKE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JackLKing
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2006 6:15 am PT
Review:  This latest release from valve is awesome. Episode one keeps you on your toes at all times and 
 never lets up. The difficulty level of this game is harder than the previous version so for all 
 you shooters out there it should keep you busy. I do see small game glitches at times.... not sure 
 if its the sound or what but its minimal. The graphics and game quality is A+ in my eyes and I 
 look forward to episode 2 already. I can see how this game can be brutal to outdated equipment. 
 I have a 7800gt and I see that it can easily chew it up at times. I also have a 3500+ proc... that 
 needs to be updated too but don't let that scare you. I was able to set graphics to what I needed 
 and had almost all the bells and whisles on and had minimal problems. The game (catching) if you 
 will is something that, as I understand, valve is aware of. It did crash on me the first time I 
 tried to play it do do a defrag before playing this game. Enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 9, 2006 5:31 am PT
Review:  I love the action in this game, but if this is what Episodic content is going to be like from now 
 on, then count me out. The action is terrific, but at $20, the price is still too high. I finished 
 this game easily in three hours, the first of which is spent without any weapons. If a 10-hour 
 game costs $60, the value sucks. If you then chop that game into three parts that costs $20 each, 
 the value still sucks. It doesnt magically get better. I refuse to praise a developer for giving 
 me less. 
  
  Its too bad that this game is so short, because I absolutely love the action in it. I thought 
 that Aftermath would be indistinguishable from Half-Life 2. I was wrong. It feels like an actual 
 sequel, and not just more levels thrown together. Almost every challenge is a new challenge, not 
 a rehash from Half-Life 2. A lot of the less fun stuff from the previous game doesnt show up here. 
 Physics puzzles are less frequent. So are sequences involving turrets. 
  
  In the meantime, there are new experiences. Theres a new enemy, the zombine, which is a really 
 tough, faster-moving zombie that sometimes comes at you with a live grenade in a suicide attack. 
 Theres one exciting sequence where you fight a gunship in a destructible attic that falls apart 
 as you and the gunship shoot at each other. Theres another exciting sequence where you escort 
 a bunch of people across an area and fight your way back and forth across it four times while Combine 
 troops keep spawning in (this may sound annoying, but its not) . Having Alyx as a teammate makes 
 for some nice additions to the gameplay. You guys help each other out a lot. There are other new 
 experiences too, but I dont want to spoil them for you. Let me just say that the gameplay is familiar 
 enough to be Half-Life 2, but new enough to be a new game. 
  
  Graphics-wise -- the game is utterly amazing. This is the only game out there that rivals Oblivion 
 right now. Half-Life 2 would still be a gorgeous game if it was released today. For Episode 1, 
 the lighting has been upgraded with all sorts of special effects that are subtle but beautiful. 
 Alyx looks perfects. She's the most lifelike NPC in the history of video games. You would never 
 guess that this is an 18-month old engine playing this game. 
  
  Audio-wise, the fantastic sound effects are still there. The music is all new, which was a nice 
 surprise too (I dont think that the music is very good myself, but if you like it, youll be happy) . 
 The voice acting is still pretty good. Alyxs dialog is very good. The best addition to the audio 
 is the commentary mode, which provides some fascinating insight into the challenges involved in 
 making the game. No Half-Life fan should miss this part.
  
  One major annoyance of this game is that it crashed constantly for me. This is one of the most 
 unstable games that I have played in years. It also hiccups badly every time that it loads a new 
 area. It hiccups worse than Half-Life 2 did when it was first released. I dont understand why 
 this would be the case. Then, about once every half hour or 45 minutes, it hiccups really really 
 badly, and then the entire computer locks up. This always seems to happen when the game is loading 
 a new area. Every time that I would really get into an exciting part of the game, it would crash, 
 and Id have to reboot my computer.
  
  Is it worth buying? I have mixed feelings about it. The action is fantastic, but it only lasts 
 three hours. I didnt speed run through the game either. I typically play my games very slow. I 
 explore environments fully and I reload my saved games a lot to try out different stuff. It took 
 me 55 hours to finish Knights of the Old Republic and it took me almost 15 hours to finish Half-Life 
 2. If I can finish a game in three hours, you might be able to finish it in two and a half. The 
 claim that this episode lasts 4-6 hours is a complete lie, unless the 6 hours comes from observing 
 sleep-deprived monkeys play the game.
  
  I enjoyed it, but I definitely wont be buying any more episodes at $20. If youre on the fence, 
 it might be worth waiting until you find it discounted, or until the inevitable compilation pack. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GautamIyer
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 9, 2006 3:27 am PT
Review:  To be honest, I had read a lot of reviews for "episode one" before playing it, so I knew, pretty 
 much, exactly what to expect. I knew the game would be short-lived and was told that the gameplay 
 was somewhat superior to that of Half-life 2. 
  
  Well fact is, after 7 hours of playing (I like to fancy the environment) on hard, I can honestly 
 say that HL2 was a much better game. 
  
  First off, the game starts off a bit slow, but picks up the slack right away as we're re-introduced 
 to the super-gravity gun. There were a lot of cool things about the level and the AI seemed genuinely 
 more challenging (though not entirely) . 
  
  The game picks up and slows down almost consistently (paradox?) through each and every level. By 
 the end of it all, I knew it was about to end shortly, but I dind't get that feeling that I did 
 in HL2. 
  
  The problem that I had with the game was that it didn't have the flare of HL2. It had some fun 
 moments, but every time I beat a level, it didn't quite sate my thirst, nor did it leave me in 
 awe. I felt let down on a few occasions and a lot of it seemed very ordinary. 
  
  I thought the dialogue was very witty and having alyx fighting side by side was a bit more fun 
 than the solo missions that we were so used to in HL2; however, the puzzles were easy, the gameplay 
 was good, but not thrilling, and I really didn't mind taking a break every now and then to do something 
 else, which was never the case with HL2. 
  
  In the end, it's worth the price, but in terms of gameplay, it was a bit of a letdown. 
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neutralx2
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 26, 2006 8:04 am PT
Review:  When Half-Life 2 came out in 2004, the ending left many of its fans scratching their heads. The 
 game ended leaving some pretty big questions unanswered. Instead of waiting for another six years 
 for the answers, Valve software has gone the way of episodic content. By releasing three much shorter 
 episodes in six month intervals, they are able to get the game out quicker. 
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode One starts out with a disappointing explanation of how Gordon and Alyx survive 
 the ending of Half-Life 2. While the explanation does appear make some sense, it feels like a big 
 cop-out and could have definitely been done better. The good news is that the story get a lot better 
 from there. The game quickly has you infiltrating the citadel once again to try to stop a reactor 
 overload and you eventually attempt to escape from City 17.
  
  Unfortunately both the citadel and City 17 were fully explored in Half-Life 2. All of the areas 
 that you visit in Episode One seem very familiar. In fact, you will probably experience de-ja vu 
 a few times before the game is over, which will take most gamers between four to six hours.
  
  The levels are not the only thing that has remained the same this time around. Your arsenal 
 of weapons remains completely unchanged. The selection of weapons is impressive and they worked 
 great for the last game, but it would have been nice to see at least one or two new weapons. It 
 is also worth noting that there are no vehicle sequences in the game, which is a shame.
  
  The enemies in the game are the same as well except for one new addition, a combine zombie. These 
 zombines take a lot of punishment and like to pull out grenades and rush after you. This tactic 
 makes them extremely deadly and usually makes them the first enemies you go after in a crowd.
 
  
  With pretty much the same enemies and weapons from Half-Life 2, it is no surprise that the gameplay 
 remains mostly the same. However, there are a few additions here and there that do a little to 
 help keep the game fresh. For instance, it is now possible to plug up ant lion burrows to stop 
 them from coming up out of the ground. Puzzles are back in the game, but unfortunately a lot of 
 them boil down to finding switches to open locked doors, which is a shame as the last game relied 
 heavily on physics based puzzles. They also tend to reuse the same puzzles over and over again, 
 which can get pretty stale as you are trying to find the 4th fuse box to power a locked door.
 
  
  The great voice acting and animation is still there. The characters seem more believable and show 
 more complex emotion then ever before. Alyx, who is with you for most of the game, has great dialogue. 
 She also does a pretty good job of taking care of herself when you are busy solving puzzles, so 
 it does not feel like a babysitting job.
  
  The graphics in the game are pretty much unchanged from Half-Life 2. It looks like most of the 
 textures and objects in the game are reused art from Half-Life 2. With reused art and locations, 
 the game pretty much looks exactly the same as it did two years ago. The only difference is that 
 Valve has added its new High dynamic range rendering (HDR) lighting system into the game (if your 
 video hardware supports it) . The main purpose of HDR is to allow bright things to be very bright 
 and dark things to be very dark while still being able to see detail in both. While HDR can look 
 amazing, it tends to be over used in the game and looks downright silly on some objects. For instance, 
 characters will glow unrealistically when you shine your flashlight on them. Still, the two year 
 old source engine still looks pretty good today and runs pretty well on older hardware.
  
  So you ask, With all the gameplay and graphics the same, why should I buy Episode One? First, 
 while the gameplay is mostly the same, that gameplay is still extremely good. Half-Life 2 was way 
 beyond many of the mediocre action games out then, and it still holds up very well today. Second, 
 Episode One does a great job in continuing the story. There are a lot of awesome scripted sequences 
 that move the story along. While you dont learn a whole lot more, and it ends with a cliffhanger 
 ending, it sets up what looks to be a very interesting Episode Two. So if you dont mind the short 
 length, no new multiplayer content, and think $20 is fair for more of the great Half-Life 2 gameplay 
 and storyline (though not as epic or original) , then go ahead and pick this one up. That being 
 said, if you were one of the few who did not enjoy Half-Life 2, this game will do nothing to change 
 your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjolnir334
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 8, 2006 10:46 pm PT
Review:  After the cliffhanger ending of Half-Life 2 many fans were speculating as what was to happen next. 
 Now over 18 months later we have Half-Life 2: Episode 1 (HL2: EP1) to explain what happened and provoke 
 even more questions. 
  
  HL2: EP1 starts just seconds after Half-Life 2, and with out giving away too much you and Alyx find 
 yourselves outside of the citadel. You quickly find out that the citadel is close to exploding 
 and you and Alyx have to get out of City 17 fast. 
  
  HL2: EP1 really kicks up the ante with the action. I found it to be much more intense than Half-Life 
 2 as there are often more enemies to deal with. Sometimes youll be facing off against loads of 
 zombies, including a new breed which is the zombine, a combine zombie. Next you could be facing 
 off against ant lions and combine at the same time. 
  
  One of the strongest points I found with HL2: EP1 was Alyx. Her character is developed a great deal 
 in Episode 1. We get to know her much better as she is with you nearly the entire game. Thankfully 
 Valve improved the A. I. on Alyx. In Half-Life 2 having rebels follow you was a chore, but with 
 Alyx youre often glad to have her there as she even saves you a couple of times and provides a 
 commentary for whats going on. Another great thing is how great the voice acting is in the game. 
 It's practically Hollywood quality and is some of the best in any video game.
  
  Another improvement I found in Episode 1 was the gravity gun. It feels much more thought out and 
 the environments feel fit for it this time around and I generally found myself using it more than 
 I did in Half-Life 2. The puzzles for it also felt much better. Ill admit that I found many of 
 the gravity gun puzzles in Half-Life 2 to be quite boring, but in Episode 1 I found them to be 
 much more complex and generally better. 
  
  Even though the Source engine is a bit older now it hides its age very well. The game looks absolutely 
 beautiful. With HDR lighting implemented the game looks marvelous. And just goes to show you that 
 a brand new engine isnt always necessary.
  
  A complaint that many people have with Episode 1 is that its too short. I found it took me around 
 four hours to complete. The thing is that I found the game play to be so rich that I didnt really 
 care about the length of the game. It felt much more intense then Half-Life 2 and I loved that 
 Alyx tagged along the whole way through. And as an added bonus Valve added a commentary mode similar 
 to that of Half-Life 2: Lost Coast. This really shows what it took to make the game and goes to 
 show why it took so long to make. 
  
  I really enjoyed Half-Life 2: Episode 1 and think that its definitely worth the $20 envestment. 
 It provides a thrilling ride from start to finish and is definitely worth picking up if you played 
 Half-Life 2, or if youre just an fps fan. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbsbyte
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 11:32 am PT
Review:  Well we are back as Gordon Freeman, this time immediately following the events in HL2. We start 
 with DOG digging Gordon out of some rubble, near the crippled Citadel at the heart of City-17. 
 Gordon with Alyx are once again thrown back into battle against the Combine, in an effort to find 
 a way to slow the meltdown of the Citadels reactor, to allow enough time for citizens to flee 
 the doomed city. Of course, while in the Citadel, Alyx stole some important data from the Combine, 
 who will stop at nothing to get it back. The Combine has loss control of City-17s defenses and 
 all types of creatures are running wild through the streets. So it is a wild and very intense battle 
 through the subterranean levels, decaying buildings and streets of the dying city to find way out 
 before the climax. Most of the major characters make small showings in the EP1. I will not ruin 
 any more of the story for you. Nevertheless, this is a great game, even if the length is short. 
 Expect to finish the game within six hours. There are only a few major changes in this game from 
 HL2. First, Alyx is now your sidekick, throughout most of the game, which is great since Valve 
 vastly upgraded her AI, graphics, refined her movements, and created some new ones for her. She 
 is now an ass kicking, shotgun toting, killing machine. Her is AI is good enough that she rarely 
 gets in the way, though she might in tight quarters. More importantly, she is able to fend for 
 herself, and cover the player allowing one to solve puzzles without worrying about something sneaking 
 up on them. Most of the games story is told though Alyx's well written and sharp witted dialogue. 
 Valve spent a lot of time humanizing her character so she would be endearing, rather than annoying 
 to the player. Second, they also added HDR to the Source engine. HDR allows for beautiful realistic 
 lighting compared to HL2. Third, Valve added a new creature in the game. A Zombine, a zombie Combine 
 solider. Though I will not spoil the fun at first seeing one, they can be quite a handful when 
 several of them attack at once. They also upgraded the AI of some of the enemies, which makes for 
 quite challenging and intense battles. The only gripes are small ones. The game is short, I finished 
 it the first time in six hours, the second time it took four on the hard level. Also Ep 1 has few 
 new areas to explore, and most places are the same as Hl2. The EP1 offers no new gameplay that 
 has not been done in Hl2. I also found even with the upgrade, enemy AI is still lacking compared 
 to newer games. Moreover most of the puzzles are easy to solve, though they took time to finish 
 because one has to fight of enemies. As we, all know the Source engine is showing its age, its 
 going on 5+ years from it's earliest inception, as many surfaces have low-resolution textures: 
 especially the ground, vegetation, and shadows are not well rendered compared to games like FEAR 
 and Fry Cry. I also had some very long loading times between chapters, at times up to ten minutes. 
 Something I did not have with HL2 even with an older computer. This time I did downloaded the game 
 through Steam. As I stated earlier, because of the short length, the game is very intense, and 
 challenging. At times, the player will have to fight off multiple enemies, while trying to complete 
 a puzzle. This is where Alyxs new improved AI greatly helps with covering your back. Ep1 is well 
 balanced between large fights, and puzzles, and integrates the two together for seamless game play. 
 Valve adding HDR to the aging Source engine gives it a new lease on life and adds to the already 
 solid graphics. Source is still an excellent engine for making great looking model graphics and 
 still very solid in rendering urban areas. Like HL2 the sound effects are excellent, and the music 
 is low key. In all I really enjoyed this game; Valve is the master at story telling, and creating 
 realistic characters in the HL2 world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Enterprise-E
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 8, 2006 6:56 pm PT
Review:  With an stunning climax to Half-Life 2 people thought they were going to have to wait a few years 
 later before you see what happened. Valves answer to that was to start doing Episodic Content with 
 Half Life. It takes less time to develope for and it gets right into the players hand while also 
 introducing some of the new graphical enhancements to the game as well.
  
  In Episode One you once again take control of Gordon Freemen. A scientist who is out to save the 
 planet from the evil Combine. Episode One picks right up from Half-Life 2's ending. Like 30secs 
 later. The story is you and Alyx must escape the Citdal before it blows but considering this is 
 HAlf-Life there is more to it than just that. Without spoiling the amazing story. The atmosphere 
 in the game is truly the part I like the most. When it is just you and Alyx in darkness and only 
 you can shine the light when you see an horde of zombies and zombines coming toward you sends chills 
 down my back. All the weapons from the first game are back in there as well. You can play the game 
 in higher diffculties if you want too. You will spend less than 10 hours with this game but it 
 is worth it. 
  
  With Episode Two already in the works and being released before the year is out, I look foward 
 to seeing how the story plays out in this intense world. Who will survive? And where is the G-Man? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lonely188
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 8, 2006 5:57 pm PT
Review:  Like many people have been saying... it's way to short, but the few hours that you do play... are 
 better than anything we've seen Valve throw at us. The game-play has many scripted events that 
 make several parts fun to watch. There is also a new improvement to ant-lion holes that add a new 
 way to get rid of the pesky beasts. You're with Alex through out the whole episode except for a 
 few short periods that you have to wonder off on your own to solve a situation that is preventing 
 continuation of the goal that Gordon and Alex are trying to accomplish in this episode. The sound 
 effects seem to be even further more improved from Half-Life 2. The whole episode has HDR levels 
 which slightly improve the graphic aspect of the game but, as far as new graphical enhancements, 
 there aren't any. Overall the episode isn't worth $20, but more so $10-$12 would be a reasonable 
 price. I would suggest waiting for the release of Episode 2, and then see if Valve offers a deal 
 that would allow you to buy Episode 1 and 2 for a cheaper price... such as $30 for both Episodes 
 might be in mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ramaveli
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 8, 2006 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Playing Half-Life 2 was an interesting experience for me. It was one of those games that, after 
 playing it, it was hard for me not to compare all future FPS games to it. For me, it didn't just 
 raise the bar, it became the bar-and although I probably liked it a bit more than most, it's hard 
 to deny that it was one of the best FPS games of all time. Months of anticipation later, Valve 
 has finally released Half-Life 2: Episode One the next chapter in Gordon Freeman's fight against 
 the Combine, and for the most part it keeps up the standard that Half-Life 2 set. Since this game 
 is Episodic, it is significantly shorter than the previous games in the series, while adding nice 
 little touches to nearly perfect the formula
  
  Episode One begins right where it's predecessor left off, with Gordon and Alyx surviving the explosion 
 at the end of Half-Life 2. Gordon has been freed from the G-man's control, and the story mostly 
 revolves around Gordon and Alyx fleeing from City 17. Valve's storytelling is still as cryptic 
 as ever, though, since you never get a full explanation as to who the G-Man is, or his relationship 
 with Gordon, and there are plenty of new questions left unresolved at the end of this chapter.
 
  
  While the story may leave you wanting more, the gameplay more than makes up for it. You'll find 
 all of the same great action from previous Half-Life games. All enemies from Half-Life 2 are here, 
 as well as two new additions: Stalkers, which are physically mutated humans -- think the Borg but 
 less cybernetics -- and Zombines, which are Combine soldiers who have been zombified by head crabs. 
 The Zombine are an interesting breed, since they'll come at you with grenades kamakazi style. The 
 Combine soldiers are also a bit sharper this time around, with increased variations in their tactics, 
 making it harder to telegraph their movements.
  
  However, the combat in Episode One is made significantly unique by having Alyx accompany you throughout 
 the entire game. Valve's use of NPC AI really shines here. While Alyx's main job is to cover your 
 back, she very rarely gets in the way. She has her own unique set of moves, is always aware of 
 what's going on around her, but isn't invincible, which creates a nice balancing act throughout 
 the game while never feeling like she's getting in the way. The half-assed squade battles from 
 the end of Half-Life 2 are perfected here.
  
  One of the hallmarks of the Half-Life series has been its scripted events, and this is no different 
 in Episode One. There are plenty of memorable moments and scenerios in the game that provide a 
 constant sense of danger and action. All of the original voice cast has returned, and there is 
 a lot of great anhumorousus dialogue. Having Alyx there to comment on each new situation is a simple 
 touch that brings a surprising level of depth to the story and all around gameplay.
  
  The game also looks and sounds as great as Half-Life 2 did, except this time Valve haincorporateded 
 High Dynamic Range (HDR) lighting into the engine. Essentially, this gives each type of light source 
 in the game it's own strength and range of lighting, with the intention of accurately representing 
 the wide range of intensity levels found in real scenes, ranging from direct sunlight to the deepest 
 shadows -- so light from the Sun will be stronger and have a wider/longer range than light from, 
 say, a candle, and the form and shade of shadows in a given environment are directly affected by 
 the type of lighting. This new addition does wonders for the look of the game, and basically perfects 
 the already incredible graphics engine of the series.
  
  If there's one real beef I have with Episode One, is that, despite all the nice new touches, it 
 often times feels like more of the same. Since the game is mostly played in the Citadelel and inner 
 City 17, you're getting about the same level design as the last five-or-so hours of Half-Life 2-- which 
 isn't necessarily a bad thing, it's just not al that new. This makes sense, since it's only about 
 a five hour game, but it's paced so well that it doesn't really feel like it's over too quicklyy. 
 It's definitelya nice addition to the franchise, and a must have for fans. Hopefully the next episode 
 will add a bit more variety to the level design. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeff_d5
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 8, 2006 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game with my upgraded computer now its better than the origional HL2 game love the documentary 
 it gave the same feeling as watching a dvd and watching deleted scenes at the same time.
  
  my only downside about this one would have to be that it had a close feel to the hl2 game like 
 playing more levels outa it. 
  
  would have been better if levels werent so much like hl2 as usual, plus a change in weapons couldent 
 hurt either
  
  cant wait for the next episode
  
  just too add the next episode judgeing by the one preview has a nice look to both different in 
 terms of new levels and new enemys
  
  love the current guns but would perfer a bit of a change to some new ones maby not all guns have 
 to go or change 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghsacidman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 8, 2006 9:22 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 was intense.... Episode One is some how even more intense. I'm not sure if it's because 
 there are more enemies, better puzzles, zombines, or because the AI is better.
  
  Pros: Better AI is a huge plus. More of a Half Life 1 feel to the combat. Episode 1 uses the Combine's 
 ability to repel from walls and such alot more and to better effect. Alyx is the smartest AI helper 
 to ever appear in a video game.... so far I haven't had to go looking for her once, even Oblivion 
 makes you back track to find NPCs following you. The scenes are more intense, especially one key 
 scene in the begining involving you, dog, and a van. It's like with HL2 the designers knew what 
 they wanted, and with episode one thats finally realized. Small things like watching Dr. Kliner 
 tell people to have sex on TV. Small things, that make you feel like you are Gordon Freeman, humanities 
 last hope. The lighting effects are.... the best. I haven't seen anything like it before. The red 
 swirl of clouds above the citadel are very impressive. The game is totally immersive, and the ideas 
 and themes are the most original to be placed in a video game to date (in my opinion) . The enemies 
 are awesome as always, with the addition of Zombine Soldiers. The Zombine have a nasty habbit of 
 busting out a grenade and running at you with it. Grabbing the grenade out of thier hand with the 
 Gravity gun can be very fun. Another interesting twist with the AI is that, you'll find enemies 
 fight one another alot more frequently. In HL2, you really didn't see (atleast that I remember) 
 zombies fighting combine, combine fighting head crabs, ant lions fighting zombies, and so on. You'll 
 also find alot more ant lions. All and all, shooter fans don't want to miss this game. It's fantastic 
 and takes HL2, no, gaming in a new direction.
  
  Cons: Well, there aren'tany true cons. My only gripe, when I first downloaded the game and then 
 went to play it... The loading screen would get 3/4 of the way and stop/lock up. Steam support 
 was no help AT ALL. So, I looked on the GameSpot forums and some dude had the answer. If your having 
 this problem, and have a ATI graphics card (the problem is only with ATI I think) here's what you 
 do: Desktop users, download new driver from ATI. Laptop users (like me) download the DESKTOP driver 
 for your card from ATI. com Then search google for DHmodtool. Follow the mod tools instructions... 
 it'll convert the desktop driver to a mobile driver, and you'll be playing Episode one in a matter 
 of 15 mins. 
  
  Final Word: You can never go wrong with Half Life... and Episode 1 prooves that even further, even 
 though it's short (it's supposed to be! So stop complaining people) . I'm excited to play Episodes 
 2 and 3. Many have called the episode "Half Life 3".... hate to tell you kids but, the episodes 
 and Half Life 3 are 2 totally different things! We'll all see, soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saeid
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 8, 2006 2:26 am PT
Review:  Love the enhanced graphics (especially the facial expressions) . It brings back good memories from 
 the original game (Half-Life 2) but it lacks reply value. Runs amazing on my system Intel 630, 
 1GB, X800 256mb PCI-Express, on my Viewsonic VX2025WM monitor at 1680x1050.
  
  Although since it also lacks the story line from the first game. What i mean is that, i know some 
 people that have bought this game, and still havent finished or played the original game.
  
  In conclusion, the game is very good, although i still havent played all that much... im not 
 a hardcore gamer, but i enjoy alittle challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlbinoShadow
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 8, 2006 1:50 am PT
Review:  hl eo is a bit too short in my book. but the gameplay still remains top-notch.
  the graphics and sound have never been bad .most of the controls and gameplay remain the same, though 
 there are some minor new things to be enjoyed. seeing alyx much much more in the game improves on 
 the parts that were not so good in the game. the fact that gordon remains a lump of meat with hands 
 to hold the guns of the game is hopefully to be improved.
  half life does not need a high tech system to keep the game looking good, wich is very good most 
 of the people ,including me, who have computers that are a bit old for todays next gen games. waiting 
 for the next one. heil dog. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gjweir9
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 7, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  After i finished Half Life 2 , i was waiting for a new expansion for HL2 , or even maybe HL3 , 
 but then comes Episode 1, so i get it right after it was out for sale . Well , i really have to 
 say that the gameplay is really awesome, even better than HL2 ! I would recommend to all FPS gamers 
 , because this is really a amazing game ! ! Thought some may complaint about the gameplay time 
 , as i use only about 5 hours to complete it , it is a little bit too short but it is sure a great 
 game ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nerd_rock_riot
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 7, 2006 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Alot of people have been complaining about its length and its lack of finality... but its just 
 supposed to tide you over till december for episode two. If you want to wait for all three to be 
 out a year from now so you can play it through and have the cream dream the rest of us are already 
 starting to build then do so. The game progresses the story to a semi decent stopping point, adds 
 some great action and fighting sequences as well as a fair amount of puzzles inbetween to help 
 it seem balanced, and it adds the element of team work with you and alyx, all of which make it 
 worth every dollar i spent... of course had i known Fry's was gonna sell it at 12.99 vs 19.95 on 
 Steam i would have bought it there. So tak that... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haloferret
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 7, 2006 7:36 pm PT
Review:  First of all, any of you wondering how long it is, don't worry about it. I beat it in roughly 5 
 hours on normal. However, fun gameplay can not be measured by time. When you first start off with 
 a hug from Alyx, your already smiling. I was amazed by the way Valve was able to add such emotion 
 to a game where the main character does not speak. As the game continues, you find the bond between 
 you and Alyx strengthening, as you cracks wise jokes, and congratulates you on things you do.
 
  While many people complain about how there are not many new things, there are. I'm not talking 
 about enemies or weapons, I'm talking about gameplay. Even though there is the new Zombine, which 
 adds much gameplay in and of itself. There is also a door blowing mechanic, in which the combine 
 blow open a door in a room. This is actually a very awesome event, as it fills the room with flying 
 wood and smoke. In one of the early levels you must use the flashlight to light up a target for 
 Alyx to shoot. This is also a new, fun mechanic Valve implemented.
  Another thing I noticed was the puzzles. The puzzles are a bit more creative this time, and are 
 usually placed well so that you don't get tired having to shoot all the time. WARNING: some of 
 these do require a brain.
  The last thing I want to mention is the music. The music is awesome. It always sets the mood right. 
 There is an especially good piece in the hospital. It can drive you to shoot better or run around 
 like a crazy man, either it adds more fun. 
  Unfortunately I have an old Geforce 5200 so I couldn't see much of the new lighting effects, however 
 all of the games objects were very shiny and sexy.
  Overall HL 2: EP1 is a very triumphent follow up to HL 2. It gets even better with the fact that 
 it's only 20 bucks. If you have a good computer and graphics card, get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lyten
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 7, 2006 4:04 pm PT
Review:  When i played the first half life, i didn't really like it. However when i watched replays and 
 g4 review, i really wanted to try Half Life 2. Honestly this game is awesome! my heart really pounded 
 when i entered into the factory by the help of Dog ( don't know how to spell It's name) . For some 
 reason i have a bad feeling about Alex, like i can't shake the feeling she won't make it. Anyways 
 valve really did a great job in this game 
  I don't even own the original half life 2, but this game is stand alone expansion. When i bought 
 Episode one from my local retail store, it was sold for 14.99 USD price cut. I couldn't pass up 
 since i heard so much good things about Half Life 2. Originally I wanted to wait for the price 
 drop on Half life 2, since it is still sold for 39.99 USD, but this 14.99 really help me pick up 
 this game. I think i will still wait for the price drop on Half Life 2, but episode one will fill 
 the empty gap for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathSquad75
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 7, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  As someone who loved Half-Life and Half-Life 2. I found the gameplay just as great as the last 
 two titles. Nothing has really changed. You rely on the suped-up grav gun for a good portion of 
 the game. The puzzles have become somewhat more challenging and thought provoking. However, some 
 just seem ridiculous at times. For example, there are times in which you have to sit and turn a 
 crank, but this proceeds at an incredibly slow rate, all the while you have an eternal steam of 
 antilions pouring out of holes in the ground around you. This makes you stop, kill them, and have 
 to start over with the slow cranking motion. Nonetheless, this only occurs perhaps twice in the 
 game. Visually, Episode One has had some upgrades. Valve has added HDR lighting and greater detail 
 many things. This gives the game even great visual appeal, assuming your computer can handle it. 
 Overall, this is a great (but short) game, that i would recommend to anyone who liked the first 
 two. But you will find yourself asking many more questions at the end of this one too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rellington
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 10, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2: Episode One is the first of a promised trilogy of bite-sized installments that continues 
 the story of Gordon Freeman and company.
  The gangs all back albeit briefly, and they all make some kind of appearance or another. 
  
 
  Following the events of Half-Life 2 where infiltrating the citadel and battling it out with Breen 
 culminating in the near destruction of the fortress, you start the game awakening to streaming 
 light (granted you have HDR on) . A quick recap of the gravity gun and reintroduction of key characters 
 and your off.
  
  Speaking of HDR............ it rocks! I played a big portion of the game at 
  1280 x 1024 without 
 HDR, then lowered the res to 1024 x 768 and enabled HDR. And WOW, what a difference. HDR is so 
 well done in this game, especially within the ever blue citadel core. Also while exploring the 
 ruined city, lights stream through cracks, holes, and windows beautifully.
  The npc models take advantage of HDR as well, and you will mostly be noticing it on Alyx as she 
 accompanies you throughout the entire episode. The light accentuated on bits of her clothing looks 
 absolutely stunning, and bright lights make her look almost angelic. The textures in the game seem 
 improved as well. They look quite a bit sharper, especially on npc models.
  
  But all the new graphical bells and whistles are for naught if the gameplay sucks. Not only does 
 the gameplay not suck, it has been improved.
  
  Did you ever feel a bit lonely traversing the large landscapes of Half-Life 2 wishing you had a 
 buddy riding shotgun on the buggy, blasting fools as you sailed along? If so then Episode One is 
 for you! Alyx is back in a big way, saving your gunless ass from everything as you solve puzzles 
 and run-amuck with the gravity gun. It will be an hour or two in before your pumping zombies, combine, 
 and the brand spanking new zombine full of lead. But until then, youre the guy with the flashlight 
 who moves things for the girl with the gun. 
  
  It isnt all that boring but you soul seems empty when youre not gripping the cold steel of a 
 crowbar. And you will. And it wont be long before your surpassing your teammates kill count furiously. 
 And just when your getting a little tired of the endless supply of baddies, you will be thrown 
 into puzzle solving mode as you maneuver over electric water, launch energy orbs, and reveal enemy 
 positions by removing their cover. The teammate dynamic is a welcome change from the constant soloing 
 from Half-Life 2.
  
  The sound of Episode One is just as good as the previous installment. Explosions, gunshots, portals, 
 voice-overs, oh and TECHNO-ROCK! Yes the techno is back and funkier then ever. The moans and groans 
 of zombies just as chilling as before. The heart stopping hiss of poison headcrabs just before 
 your hp drops to zero scared the crap out of me more then once.
  
  If there is one flaw in Episode One it is the length. The game can be finished roughly within 4-6 
 hours. But boy, those 4-6 hours sure are sweet!
  Normally a game like this has no replay value other then it is an extremely well done game, and 
 the odd easter egg or two. But borrowing from what Starbreeze did on The Chronicles of Riddick: 
 Escape From Butcher Bay, Valve has included a commentary mode to replay the game in. Im glad that 
 Valve chose not to mess around with the commentary system as it was great without changing the 
 way you use it. If youre not familiar with how the commentary system works, while your play though 
 the game you will see revolving text bubbles. When you look at one of the bubbles and hit the "use" 
 key, it will play an audio clip of a valve employee giving information about the game. So once 
 you factor in the additional play through, the price point of twenty dollars starts to make since, 
 and seem more then fair.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode One is the first of the controversial episodic content set in the Half-Life 
 universe. I was a bit skeptical on how much I would enjoy the game with the play time being so 
 short. But finishing it in one sitting I retained a lot more key information, and developed a fondness 
 for the characters. 
  
  And a great informative commentary never hurt.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spencer_Jack
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 7, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  Just when i thought "this is getting good" The frickin game ends! I know its an add-on and only 
 cost me 15, but it seems more like a scam to eventually get 45 from you when buying all 3 episodes. 
 My advice is see whether it can be got through a torrent!
  
  Good points are the HDR lighting and the difficulty seems to have been brought up a level. The 
 story seems great, but talk about reading a book and getting the last pages torn out! 
  
  If the second one is as short as this i wont be rushing to buy it!!!
  
  Spencer :-? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hondje89
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 7, 2006 8:21 am PT
Review:  Half-Life was a unbelievable hit when it first came out on the PC, and is still one of the most 
 popular and best PC games ever created. Years later, in 2004, the sequel to bestselling game was 
 released. Half-Life 2. Not only were gamers surprised by its sick Source graphics engine, but 
 also the gameplay was very easy and cool to get into.
  
  Now, almost two years later, Valve released the first episode of the trilogy of Half-Life 2. Since 
 Half-Life 2s ending was so open, and left many questions, Valve released the first episode that 
 answers all the questions you had in the original game.
  
  Though, Episode One, is short and not expensive at all, it still has a remarkable great gameplay 
 value. One of the things that makes this first episode great is Alyx. And I dont mean the fact 
 that shes a cute looking kick butt girl. No, shell guide all the way to get you and other citizens 
 out of City 17. Also, shes able to kick the Headcrabs of a zombie and other cool fighting moves. 
 For the rest of all, the gameplay didnt really change. Though there are two new enemies. Well 
 you can better say one. The first one is a Zombine, thats how Alyx would call it. This is 
 just a Combine that has turned into a zombie by a Headcrab. The thing is, they are way more powerful 
 than the other zombies. Cause of the armor they wear, its harder to take them down. Also, theyll 
 commit suicide by running at you with a grenade in their hand above their head. And then you have 
 the Stalker. These were former humans, though theyve been mutated, or something, that turned them 
 into weird skinny things and they serve the Combine. Well, I dont think you should call them a 
 enemy, since you dont really fight.
  
  As for the graphics, the updated Source engine really pays of in this episode. Youll see that 
 the men and women of Valve tried their best, and it looks great. Youll be able to see way more 
 textures than before in the original Half-Life 2. Also, the updated engine made sure some graphical 
 problems were removed. Though, it did bring some new ones with them. At some points, youll see 
 that the textures are stretched out way too far. But this are just minor problems that wont irritate 
 one except the graphics droolers that play games only cause of its graphics.
  
  The sound has also been updated, which is remarkable, cause the sound was already superb. But the 
 good folks at Valve pushed it a little further. The sounds effects are even more realistic. Youll 
 hear a echo when reloading in a hallway, same goes for other things like Alyx talking with you. 
 Another thing, is the scratchy sound that was in Half-Life 2 when there was a big explosion of 
 a Gunship, grenade or any other explosive sound. This has been removed luckily. For so far, I havent 
 heard any problems with Half-Life 2: Episode One. The sound just rocks the Zombines socks.
 
  
  Episode One may contain a lot of very sweet stuff that wants you to play more, it already ends 
 after 4 to 6 hours. When things just get interesting, its already over. So, there aint much of 
 a replay value with this one, since there isnt a new multiplayer mode either. But, I think a lot 
 gamers will still play this game pretty often to beat it on all difficulties. 
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode One is a superb beginning of the first trilogy of the Half-Life series. It 
 might be short, and doesnt contain any new options for the multiplayer. But this game is still 
 worthy of the name Half-Life. The all new updated Source engine makes Half-Life 2 look and even 
 sound better than before. Also, the game has unique and fun moments that will always be reminded. 
 Now, let us wait for another great Half-Life experience with the upcoming Episode Two and Three.
 
  
  Good points
  
  +Updated Source engine makes HL2 look and sound better.
  +Alyx is a real great help, with a surprisingly good AI.
  +Great voice acting gives HL a great 
 feeling to play.
  +Story goes further where HL2 ended.
  +Only $19,99 (19,99) .
  
  Bad points
  
  -Way too short.
  -Still some minor graphical problems.
  -Ending is open again 
 like the original game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cps
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 7, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2: Episode One marks the first expansion out of three for the award winning Half Life 
 2. It is the first in episodic content, taking gamers further into the story of events that transpired 
 during Half Life 2, and leaves the series open to take us further into events that will happen 
 afterward. (Again, leaving us with a cliffhanger ending - Literally!) . 
  
  Although it was originally named Aftermath, all I can say, having finished the episode, is that 
 it didn't deal with any of the question it was supposed to have answered. Mainly, what happens 
 after Half Life 2. As it seems to concentrate most of it's time, dealing with a new mystery, and 
 with that, new questions to be answered. It infact deals only with Gordan and Alyx's escape from 
 City 17, and gives only hints to the G-man's struggle to maintain his puppet-master hold on Gordan, 
 and the new outsider influence, being the mysterious Combine entity you see make cameo appearences 
 throughout the game. 
  
  Though, for what story you can gather, you may be thankful, as it is expressed with the same charm, 
 and outstanding realism, as what was seen Half Life 2. All the main voice actors return to portray 
 their characters and give hollywood worthy performances, on top of masterful animation work done 
 on the models representing on screen. 
  
  The gameplay throughout the episode, remains constant, with a much better pace than the original 
 Half Life 2, and goes further to expand on puzzles, teamwork and battles. There aren't any large 
 distances to travel or vehicles to take cross country, where in Half Life 2, you had large stretches 
 of land to cover without much to interest you, other than the odd interruption from an enemy. This 
 time, it's all on foot, alongside Alyx, in pretty much the same formula of enemies seen in the 
 original, but given new ways at which you can tackle the levels. 
  
  At first you're given no weapons, and must use your gravity gun to take on Combine Soldiers. A 
 task made easier when it goes into hyper mode again. It's about the time you start facing more 
 zombies, in the Ravenholm-like level, that it loses it's powers and you start collecting your weapons 
 once more. New zombies come as Combine soldiers, killed by headcrabs - now reanimated as corpses, 
 that run and attack, and will pull a grenade out if you let them get too close. The level takes 
 place in a series of car parks and basement complexes and works very well. At one point you'll 
 be attacked by Antlions and must find cars to block their burrows, and another the building blacks 
 out, when Alyx causes it to lose power, then in the dark, you start to hear things stirring, and 
 must use your flashlight to direct Alyx's gunfire, while you yourself, start gun-blazing with your 
 shiny new shotgun, seen in Half Life 2, but now seems to be the primary weapon for this episode, 
 and a weapon you'll use the most.
  
  The level structure is more varied, even with similar enemies throughout, but has a more subtle 
 feel to it, without a whole army of Striders, you'll only come across one, and has a much more 
 effective presence. That could be said of the howling zombies known for climing walls in Ravenholm, 
 now come only as pairs amongst other zombies, and Zombines (as Alyx calls them) , and have a much 
 more haunting effect. 
  
  All in all, the game sets up a great game to be completed, with the release of the next two episodes. 
 You get what you pay for, and the experience was well worth not waiting another six years for Half 
 Life 3, when Valve can now concentrate on moving the story to new levels, and the gameplay also. 
 Half Life geeks would've gladly payed out for this game, just for the shocking trailer at the end, 
 for Episode Two, and on top of that, you get Half Life 1: Deathmatch Source. The Original Half 
 Life game running on the Source engine. Though it is only multiplayer, by installing it, you can 
 also preload Half Life 1 Source for purchase. 
  
  Episode One, may not have answered my questions. It only gives out hints and was quite stingy with 
 some of the gameplay that may be fully explored in later episodes. But, it's been a rollercoaster 
 ride, and a far more enjoyable one, than Half Life 2. I wait in anticipation for Episode Two, and 
 look forward to a complete game once all three episodes are finished and released.
  
  "We'll see... about that!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjamaster6996
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 26, 2006 8:43 pm PT
Review:  From the award wining PC game comes the sequel. I was a little disappointed by the game's length. 
 I finished it in less than 5 hours, and for the price it was a bad buy. But other than that i really 
 enjoyed the game... New enemy's and the new HDR was enabled through the game. I personally enjoyed 
 the story itself. 
  
  The interactivity of the game was impressive. Also the responses from Alex throughout the game. 
 For example: Near the end of the game there is a group of rebels that are in a room while watching 
 TV. If you disconnect the TV, Alex will say : "Your right, there is no time too watch TV." And 
 that realy impressed me. But the game was too short. That is all i have to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightsoulUS
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 9, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  The first two words that came to my mind after finishing HL2: Ep1, were very short ... but i guess 
 is how they say, the quality is the one that matters not the quantity. HL2: Ep1 was an engaging 
 episode, whit a lot of action and suspense but whit a great gameplay also.
  
  The graphics were pretty good, but nothing out of the usual. The HDRI was very good and it gave 
 the world of half life a realistic look.
  
  The gameplay is one of the best things after the story in Episode 1, the collaboration between 
 Gordon and Alyx is very good, all the dark places where you need to keep the light pointed for 
 Alyx to make a good shoot, when your need to cover the ant-lions holes and Alyx watches your back, 
 but overall the team gameplay between Gordon and Alyx, was one of the best things implemented in 
 this episode.
  
  In HL&amp; HL2 i always thought that the headcrab zombie idea was good, but they were to easy to 
 kill and pose a treat only in great number but now the things have changed whit the new zombines 
 who are in my opinion now one of the most challenging enemies in the game especially in dark places, 
 plus they carry a grenade so watch your back.
  
  I think the voices, sound and especially the soundtrack are one of the best i have heard in a very 
 long time, and the soundtrack blends great whit the action and its like an adrenalin rush, when 
 it starts its an invitation to a good a$$ kicking =) ) . Finally the story is one of the best Sci-fi 
 stories in the gaming history. I always liked a good story that feeds you a part and it lets you 
 figure the next part and after that gives you the chance to see if your intuition was good or bad, 
 and i believe this is the best part of the HL universe.
  
  The only bad things about HL2: Ep1 were that it didn't gave you any new weapon, there was only one 
 new monster and was very very short, it took me only 4 hour to finish on normal mode but all that 
 being said, HL2: Ep1 is a game that you don't want to miss even if your not a fan of FPS games.
 
  
  And yes i recommend if you didn't play it yet or if you played it but not whit the commentary track 
 on, to play again this time whit the commentary track on. The commentary track reveals a lot of 
 useful information about the making of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domstercool
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 7, 2006 6:29 am PT
Review:  Its amazing how fast time travels. Just over 18 months ago I was playing one of the most technically 
 advanced games at that time, in terms of physics, graphics and facial expression technology. Half-Life 
 2 was an amazing game that won so many people over that it managed to pick up 35 Game of the Year 
 awards. Its no easy feat to do that. So when Valve announced they were planning on continuing 
 the story that they left at such a cliff-hanger, I was extremely pleased. 
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode 1 picks up straight after the events of Half-Life 2. The adventure is continued 
 still in the boots of Gordon Freeman, but this time you have Alyx by your side for most of the 
 game. This makes Episode 1 (as it will be known through the review) have a change of feeling to 
 how it plays, it still has the same Half-Life 2 gameplay that we all know, but having Alyx around 
 the player takes away that lone wolf feeling you always felt. The A. I for Alyx is superb. I never 
 once throughout the game had a single problem with Alyx getting stuck behind things, acting wrongly 
 etc. that you usually encounter with A. I partners in games. Another great thing about having Alyx 
 around is the amusing comical dialogue she will sprout out. Shell comment on a vast amount of 
 things, make jokes, it really builds up the friendship between the player and Alyx as a character. 
 The dialogue is well written and even other Half-Life characters join in on the fun. 
  
  The story for Episode 1 is all about escaping City 17 and that is all you will get to see. Valve 
 has decided to make Episode 1 the first in three Episodic Content for Half-Life 2, Valve have 
 even gone on to say that its more than just a add on for the game, but with the first episode 
 you dont really get that sense. Maybe this is because you dont see any new settings, you see 
 new buildings and such but the settings are all the same, youve experienced them throughout Half-Life 
 2. There also arent any new weapons and only one new enemy, the Zombine (Watch out for Alyxs 
 joke about them when you first see them.) which is a Combine covered with Head Crabs that do suicide 
 runs at you with a grenade in its hand. 
  
  Valves source engine is still used for Episode 1. It does come with some new fancy enhancements. 
 The inclusion of High Dynamic Range (HDR) lighting effect, which first appeared in the Lost Coast 
 tech demo, makes it look better than the original Half-Life 2. Some of the edges in the source 
 engine are starting to show up but for most part the game has aged pretty well. The physics and 
 the amazing facial software are still there and nothing has yet to come close to it them in other 
 games. 
  
  The nature of episodic content has somewhat hurt Episode 1. The game will be over in around four 
 hours and it will seem to fly by as well. On the plus side of things Valve has managed to make 
 those four hours some of the best Half-Life gaming to date. It may not have any vehicle sections 
 (some promised in Episode 2 however) , but you never really seem to miss them. Its all about the 
 combat with you and Alyx and that job is done brilliantly. You may want to play through it again 
 with the audio commentary track that is included, something which was also taken from Lost Coast. 
 
  
  If you enjoyed Half-Life 2 then you should instantly get a hold of Episode 1. If you didnt then 
 you still might want to check it out, just because of how the difference Alyx makes to the gameplay. 
 Its Half-Life at its best, but its just a shame that its over so soon. At least we dont have 
 to wait 18 months again; Episode 2 is promised to be out before Christmas. I know what Santa is 
 bringing me then on Christmas Day.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jarppi89
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 7, 2006 3:06 am PT
Review:  HL2: Episode one is first episode for HL2 and it's truly amazing. The game shows incredible graphics 
 and amazing gameplay. This time you get teammate for you, Alyx. She is truly one badass companion, 
 she kills zombies with you. She is truly helpful =) There is one new enemy, Zombine xD I don't 
 tell you about it anymore cause you wanna see it for yourself. The story continues from end of 
 Half Life 2. It's very exciting to see what truly happened at end of HL2. Enough of story, see 
 it for yourself =)
  
  Gameplay: You get your gravity gun back and some of your old weapons. This time you have companion, 
 Alex, to support you on your trip out of City 17. There are few interesting puzzles, really interesting 
 =)
  
  Graphics: Amazing graphics, I truly liked 'em. Nice character development, again 
  
  Sound: Very cool soundtrack. I actually enjoyed listening good music and killing zombies with 
 Alyx. Very nice soundeffects 
  
  Value: The game is sadly, very short. Only 4-6 hours to clear this game. But let's wait for Episode 
 Two =)
  
  Tilt: Get it if you liked Half Life 2 and want to know what truly happened at end of HL2. Get it, 
 now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zippo69
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 6, 2006 8:54 pm PT
Review:  So word says it, this game is short, but it depends on how much you put your head into it (not 
 the head crab of course) . The game felt more like Half-Life 1 than HL2, because I was more likely 
 to climb through vents, use the flashlight more often, and I always had to find something other 
 than a key to open the door. HL2 was more open in the outdoors, it was way more adventurous in 
 a rpg sort of way. In Episode 1 I was shocked to find out that I wasn't going to use the crowbar 
 as the first weapon and it ends up being the gravity gun. I cant wait to play Episode 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badtziscool
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 6, 2006 7:59 pm PT
Review:  While it only took approximately 6 hours to complete, it was well done. As with HL2, it was pretty 
 much glitch-free, had a great story, and incredible gameplay. Is it worth 20 bucks? Yes. Cameos 
 of my HL2 favorites such as the supercharged gravity gun, striders, and gunships created some satisfying 
 gameplay although a new weapon (s) and/or a new enemy besides another zombie would have been nice. 
 Aside from fighting alongside Alyx and a cool elevator ride (won't give spoiler) , there wasn't 
 much novel gameplay to be found. More of the already established formula with minor changes is 
 not necessarily a bad thing. I enjoyed the continuation of an exceptional story and can't wait 
 for Episode 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razorsedge678
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 6, 2006 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: Even better than the gameplay we all love from half life 2. The puzzle solving is a bit 
 more complex, and occasionallly calls you to rely on alyx to complete them. The companionship between 
 You and Alyx is great , it adds to the atmosphere and fun factor. Its good to have a friend for 
 a change in the half life world. The game doesnt have any more repetative moments. The gameplay 
 is more focused on team work and urban combat, which is great. The battles while puzzle solving 
 are great as well, like the final battle against the strider at the trainstation. I would also 
 like to note that the load times have been dramatically reduced, making the game flow much better.
 
  
  Gameplay cons: The ant lion parts got annoying after a while.
  
  Graphics pros: The added HDR brings the whole scenery alive. Some of the textures have even been 
 improved.
  
  Graphics cons: Well, although i favor half life 2's more realistic look, some people may feel its 
 not quite up to par with current games like ghost recon advanced warfighter or oblivion, but i 
 can tell you they are up to par, and youll be able to see them on a less powerful machine.
  
  Sound: The voice acting is excellent, and the little saying thrown in by Alyx and others makes 
 the game really shine. Good tunes to blast combine by.
  
  Value: Here in lies the games biggest flaw. Yes i know its only 20 bucks, i know its just an episode, 
 but 2 more hours would have been nice. Just a little more urban battles would have been much appreciated.
 
  
  Tilt: Well its half life, and its the best Half life yet.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kou_seiya_girl
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 6, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Well, what can i say about episode one. It starts when HL2 ends... and Gordon and Alyx are alive 
 after that huge explosion... well thats great but then they realise that something bad is coming... 
 and that frenetic/crazy running starts all over again. I liked especially the Hospital chapter 
 with that crazy toxic spider all over us, and before that the giant ants (that giant ants from 
 sand level on HL2) .
  I must say that i cant wait for episode 2! And i hope that they still use this game engine that 
 is great for old graphic cards (i played with an 9600XT with high resolution and AA 2x without 
 any break or crash) I recommend with every words!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Satanmar
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 6, 2006 8:58 am PT
Review:  I loved Half Life 2, who didn't. But when I heard that Valve were going to release expansions to 
 Half Life in a Episodic form I wasn't to happy. But I can say that after experiencing Episode one 
 I can't wait for Episode 2.
  
  First of all I want to talk about the graphics, for the first time Valve have used HDR lighting 
 in one of there Half Life games and it really looks fantastic, there also seems to be a number 
 of new small graphical touch-ups such as the characters faces and environments. Half Life Episode 
 1 really does reach a level of graphics that not many games will be even able to touch. 
  But of course the graphics isn't the greatest thing about this game, for those who like a great 
 story we are definatly getting one in this series. Even though the Episode doesn't answer all the 
 key questions it answers a lot. Such as of course what happened after Half Life 2. It continues 
 the story well even though some players will feel it doesn't answer enough questions that us gamers 
 wanted. Valve are in my few, taking the right route with an episodic form. So not to far away we 
 will be able to play Episode 2, this form of expansion won't suit everyone of course but It suits 
 me. The fighting and general gameplay hasn't changed much but there are some great small new ideas 
 in this game and it has some memorable moments (one noticable at the start with Dog) and these 
 are what make the Half Life series......
  
  I can see many gamers doign what they usually do and moan about how short it is, and it is short 
 but what a ride it gives you. The shortest of the game gets is ignored when you count the fact 
 that we will be able to get our hands on new technology advances that Valve make when the new Episodes 
 appear in the coming months. I won't deny the game anything wrong with it. Well in fact the gameplay 
 itself doesn't have anything wrong with it, neither the story. In truth it's the shortness of the 
 game that is slightly disappointing but like I said above it matters little.
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS!
  What can I say, Half Life 2: Episode 1 as made me even more excited about the 
 story that Valve are producing. I love the idea of Episodic Expansions and all in all Valve have 
 produced a great Episode. The shortness may upset some games but for the price you pay for the 
 game, theres just no reason to moan (I payed 14.99 at Amazon. co. uk) so for those that moan about 
 this Episode. Just be quiet and enjoy gaming history....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sheka
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 6, 2006 7:35 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  This game is delivering fast great action. The SOURCE engine is still one of the best. The graphics 
 are still great, especially to Hi-End graphic card generation.
  The sound is quite good and there is some music though it is rare. The game does what it should, 
 a lot moments of fun. Every fan should have it. Combining parts of the original Half-Life 2. The 
 combination with Alyx while you flashlight your foes and she does the dirt work is original and 
 nice. Very realistic. 
  
  The Bad: 
  The music is quite good and still it so rare, pity. At the beginning Alyx 
  Is always with you, 
 She actually slows you down with all here talking (I just wont blast some foes thats all) . At 
 beginning blasting my way with her was fun, but at some moment she just ruins the action. With 
 her help all the foes became much more stronger (normal difficulty) it's not fun when one combine 
 dude is 'eating' full clip.
  And worst of all, the gun doesn't kill them anymore when I directly shoot them at the head. Another 
 annoying stuff is places with enemies that won't end until you figure out what to do next or how 
 to solve the enemy problem, it's not making the action fest paced it's just annoying. This expansion 
 is very short (2-4 hours) . And the chapters thing, I ask Why?. Why don't they make another great 
 game then turning it to series?. (Sims..?) . I think they could avid it. While playing I had a feeling 
 that the game is missing something that is why I thought it would be better to wait and make a 
 whole great game. 
  
  Conclusions:
  The game is fantastic; the action is awesome and reminds to everyone that HL2 is still the best 
 FPS. Despite the bad things that caught my eyes the game is still amazing and defiantly the best, 
 though is not better then the original HL2 but is not worse either.
  
  You must play it !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadowlinex
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 6, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Where to begin is a tough call. So lets start with the good. 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  The game is FAST PACED. I couldn't see my self putting it down the first and second time through 
 it. Valve has done an excellent job of balancing action with puzzles. Many action seqences where 
 long and mentaly fun. Puzzles came exactly at the right time to let the player take a break from 
 the action to get there brains back. Alex in this game is a big help. Not only does her AI act 
 right, but so does all the other npc and eniemies. While the game doesn't introduce many new content 
 like weapons and character and such which is a bummer, but the new features they added in are a 
 lot of fun to play around with. 
  
  I remember spawning a rollermine from the console and using it through out the game to kill things. 
 The introduction of a intresting new creature which personal brings me a lot of laughter is the 
 Zom-___ (not to give it away) 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  Its to be expected from the source engine to produce amazing visuals from staring at a crumbling 
 Combine Citadel to old Europian hospitals. However, the most impressive inovation that valve has 
 come up with is there emertion of cinematics that aren't very long, yet give you a chance to run 
 around in them. Weather it be being face to face with a screaming stalker or racing down a shaft 
 in a beat up van. Its a nice feel and rush. 
  
  Valve has also fully intergrated the HDR effect into episode 1. 
  
  SOUND:
  
  IMO better 
 then half-life 2's sound track. The techno beats they made during the action made my heart pump. 
 In the dark lit areas the proper spooky tune followed key.
  
  OTHER:
  
  The commentary was a fun feature to listen to it got me to play through it again. The expansions 
 are in episodes allowing valve to intergrate the lastest technologies into the games.
  
  Well that being said Episode One has some major let downs the biggest being it that its extremely 
 short. Only about 5-6 hours depending on how you play. The other let down being the fact that there 
 isn't to much greatly new content wise.
  
  FINAL VERDICT:
  
  Its a buy for twenty buck I feel I got my moneys worth. Infact i'm going to play it again... see 
 later folks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cartman86
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 6, 2006 12:06 am PT
Review:  Ok so when i first heard that Valve was going to go with an episodic model, so their games would 
 be released sooner and would allow for a more TV model. Where their are cliffhangers and you can't 
 wait to play the next installment. Then after a while I started to think it was stupid. The length 
 of the games was the main issue. If it was 5 hours and you would get the next installment soon... 
 as in at most a month I would love the idea. The best part about shows like 24 and Lost is waiting 
 to see whats going to happen. However, then I started to hear that Episode 2 and 3 would come out 
 within 6 months each. Ugh I thought. This whole episodic thing is going to crash and burn, but 
 after playing it I have eaten my own words. First off yes it took me around 4-5 hours to beat it. 
 Yes my game crashed like hell many times because my PC hates Half-Life. I figured out the problem 
 and fixed it so I'm not going to include that in my score.
  
  Doing the game in a way where everything needs to have a point and there is no time to waste really 
 helped this game out a lot. If it was slow paced in any way it would ruin it. And valve does not 
 screw up in that department. Non stop action interwoven with great character moments. It's so much 
 fun to just watch the characters interact with the environment, each other, and sometimes even 
 you. The animations are just amazing. Perfect lip sync and amazing voice acting really bring out 
 the characters. Even more so than Half-Life 2 did. There are some really cool player controlled 
 real time "cutscenes" that I won't spoil, but be prepared to smile. Sure the game has all the same 
 weapons from Half-Life 2, but really this is just the beginning in a trilogy of episodes. In the 
 end the game does enough new things that it didn't really matter to me. It of course ends a cliffhanger, 
 though not in a huge story related manner. That aspect only comes in with the episode 2 teaser 
 trailer.
  
  Since this is based off of the Half-Life 2 engine almost entirely it does look a little dated when 
 compared to games like Crysis. However Crysis isn't even out yet. It's pretty sad that no PC game 
 has come along since Half-Life 2 and raised the bar any higher. There are some nice effects though 
 added to the game. Not just the obvious stuff, but nice changes under the hood that you don't really 
 notice until you go back and play Half-Life 2.
  
  Overall I think that this could turn out to be a very good little Trilogy. Where the sum of the 
 parts could total to be longer and better than Half-Life 2 itself. If the teaser trailer for episode 
 II is any indication the direction being taken is going to be a little different from Episode One 
 which in the end should help with creating some new and fresh with each installment. Oh and there 
 is the commentary track throughout the game. Very similar to the Riddick design, but sadly everyone 
 is reading off of a piece of paper. Which makes the tracks much much shorter than Riddick and sound 
 far to forced. I suppose they wanted to have a plan and give out useful information. But in the 
 end the best part about Riddick was how the developers would just talk and say whatever came to 
 mind about the subject. It was spontaneous, funny like a real commentary track should be. Yes you 
 should prepare for what you are going to say, but don't read from a script.
  
  In the end the problems in the game really just didn't matter to me. I having so much fun. The 
 lack of vehicles and truly varied environments didn't matter! The lack of anything really answered 
 in the story didn't matter either! In the end this is part of a bigger story, so at the moment 
 i'm willing to let things go. I just hope it all ends up being worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jugulator62
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jun 5, 2006 9:55 pm PT
Review:  meh! I am unimpressed. The character of Alyx was engaging but other than that, it's the same old 
 Half-life universe.. and it's wearing thin. The character of Gordon Freeman is just so weak and I 
 bet the reason they never show him in any way is because you would laugh your *** off lookin' at 
 this dork! Yes, the Source engine is truly amazing, but those freakin' load times are unacceptable 
 for any modern game. Weapons were weak and inaccurate. As soon as I beat the game I fired up CSS 
 and boy what a difference no loads during game play and accurate weapons!! what a concept. And there 
 is going to be how many more of these mini-games!?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Tomato
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 5, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Nice graphics and special effects try to cover the fact this is one of the most linear shooters 
 ever created.
  
  It's a game on rails, interrupted by frequent in-game "movie" sequences. 
  
  The fact that 
 most of the game is played out inside makes the amount of choices you are given to choose your 
 own path nearly nil, as you play inside a maze of corridors with only one way to go.
  
  It has a strong focus on puzzles rather than combat, but they are all straight forward and pretty 
 boring.
  
  I guess when a game shows up with good graphics and a big brand name, nothing will stop it from 
 getting a good review, but in my opinion this game offers very limited gameplay.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: whadzen
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 5, 2006 7:41 pm PT
Review:  This game's attributes are mainly the story, resolution of the cliffhanger of HL2 and a set up 
 for the next two episodes. Kind of like "Lost", or "X-files", you get just a little bit of resolution 
 at a time, so we should get used to this by now.
  
  The amazing source engine gets polished even better and the environments are quite immersive. A 
 simple thing like the ashes of the blown up Citadel falling all over the city just blew my socks 
 off. Graphics are just amazing.
  
  Because of the short nature of the game, gameplay is intense, and fast paced. You are low on ammo 
 and weapons for a lot of the game, so you have to think things through. Great puzzles. Fun as hell! 
 Nothing like getting home from a hard day's work and take it out on the tons of zombies you'll 
 encounter. Urban war/action sequences second to no other game i've played.
  
  AI is awesome. Alyx just kicks ass and is responsive to your every move. Shine a flashlight on 
 her face and she'll squint and tell you to get it off of her. Her commentary is quite entertaining 
 also.
  
  In summary a great game and I welcome the episodic nature of this great story. I rather play short 
 episodes every 6 to 8 months, than waiting 3+ years for a sequel. Thanks Valve! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tes1966
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 5, 2006 6:47 pm PT
Review:  This game has the best graphics yet displayed in any game of this type. Absolutely wonderful outdoor 
 settings and the indoor shots during the day with light streaming though the roof of a bombed out 
 building are nothing less than breath taking.
  
  The sound is excellent for the most part but there are times that the bass seems to be missing 
 from some of the gun shots. Not sure if this is my system or something wrong with the game.
  
  I'm still not sure about the story line. I get the feeling that Valve maybe doesn't really 
 know what the story really is or on the flip side are as great at story as the writers of the TV 
 show LOST. With each installment we get little pieces of what has/is/will happen. I'm hoping that 
 it starts to come together in the next installment.
  
  Being the best FPS yet released by any game shop I have to give this a 9.5. It short yes but it 
 was only $18. I didn't think I was going to play for weeks on end at a cost of just $18. But, for 
 the cost it was definately worth the ride.
  
  If you have the system that can pull this off this is a must play game. My setup is an AMD x2 3800, 
 2GB of OCZ Platinum memory and a Sapphire X800GTO graphics card. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dombekj890
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 5, 2006 5:15 pm PT
Review:  half life 2 episode one believe it or not improves on almost everything that the original half 
 life 2 in almost every aspect. where it needed more of a story this one has it. where it needed 
 some more puzzles this one has more and they are tougher.
  
  this game however short i feel definitely is worth the price of admission.
  
  from the introduction 
 to the final scenes you will be impressed. valve adds more of what people liked by making the puzzles 
 tougher and gving it more of a story it feels a little more complete. also by having alyx as your 
 partner in all of it it makes it quiet fun. she never gets in the way and you actually rely on 
 her and the same goes for her. my favorite part was in the underground passage. the lights are out 
 and you are waitng on an elivator and all of these zombies come at you. the hard part is there 
 are alot and they are fast and you have to keep the light on alyx and them for her to shoot them.
 
  
  over all this i felt had more of a cinematic feel to it and it felt more like what you are doing 
 matters.
  
  this makes me want to go back and play half life again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheG-Man1912
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 5, 2006 1:20 pm PT
Review:  This game had it's ups and downs. The Citadel levels were pretty cool, but the City 17 levels felt 
 just like they did in HL2, and I didn't care for those levels in that game either. The absence 
 of the G-Man was a disappointment. The trailer and especially the official site seemed to hint 
 that G-Man would be a big part of the game. Instead, he appears for a whole 30 seconds t the very 
 beginnig. I also missed the minor characters such as Cubbage and Father Grigori. The length didn't 
 surprise me, but it was a bit of a letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wand1212
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 5, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  Well, I really enjoyed HL 1+2, but I have to say I am disappointed in the third one.
  
  The Good:
  - Graphics: If you can get all the eye candy turned on (I have a highest end SLI setup) , 
 the graphics are amazing.
  - Gameplay: Just like HL2, plus second team member.
  
  The Bad:
  - Gameplay: Just like HL2, plus second team member. Do I get to do ANYTHING myself? 
 There are 2 occasions in this game in which you actually have to fire a bullet. That's it. Apart 
 from that, she can take care of it all. (I played in normal difficutly.)
  - Short: For a normal player like myself, be prepared to spend an evening, that's it.
  - Environments 
 and Weapons: Copy and paste from HL2, that's it.
  
  THE REALLY BAD:
  - STORY: OK, the most boring thing that could have followed after the HL2 ending happened. SPOILER: 
 They just find themselves at the bottom of the tower after having been saved by their alien friends. 
 After that, they basically just run until they are out of the city before the tower goes boom.
 
  In the review, they said that questions will be answered. Really? What questions got answered? 
 The tower went boom, temporarily setting back the alien invaders, and the two main characters didn't 
 get killed. And we didn't know that at the end of HL2?
  
  The graphics are all nice and well, but overall this feels more like a tech demo than a game, designed 
 by looking at: How can we show off all the capabilities of our engine in as short a time as possible. 
 It is a great demo, but not a good game.
  Maybe as the first part of a longer game this would have been decent, but since it is going to 
 take forever for the next part to come out, this has to be seen as a stand-alone expansion. And 
 as that, it's really not doing a very good job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Norton_Antiviru
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 5, 2006 10:41 am PT
Review:  I will not tell you about the plot nor new enemies. So no spoilers here.
  
  Sound 9/10
  Now the voices are the best in the industry. As far as I could tell, most are brand new V. O. s, 
 although some we rehashed. The only problem I saw was that there was not always music. This is 
 the same problem I had in the past two HLs. Its not a BIG problem, but It just seemed like when 
 the action was hot, the music was not there.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  I have a GeForce 6800 GT (wating for DX10) . I had the Setting maxed but 6X AA and Bloom HDR only. 
 Just like the First time I played HL2 on my new computer (2 months old) my jaw dropped. This game 
 is NOT just a mod of HL2 and chucked out into stores. I noticed that there are tons of new textures, 
 and skins on ragdolls. Now a good portion of this game is dark, so the flashlight is needed, this 
 is where they show you what HDR is.
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  If you liked the first HL2, you will like the gameplay here. Standard G-Gun puzzles. Combine raids 
 and Ravenholm type chapter make this very similar to the first one. This one seems to focus more 
 on the shotgun than HL2. What make you feel like a Head-Shot delivery-boy. You do over time receive 
 all the guns from HL2. And yes your crowbar too. The only thing really left out, was "ammo" for 
 you G-Gun, despite getting it like the moment you first get to move. But overall HL2: EP1 is more 
 "up close and personal" than the first one.
  
  Value 9/10
  Its all good till its over right? Well I beat this game in about 5 hours. (NOTE I did not keep 
 time so its an rough estimate) . I did not rushing past anything. I got broke all the item crates 
 that I could find. I fully searched every room. This game is just short. Although it is short. 
 I would compare it to Katamari Damacy in gameplay time. Its short but you feel like it was worth 
 the money.
  
  The Verdict says this game is 9.3.
  Unless you do not have a good computer, and/or just don't like FPS's, you have no excuse to not 
 buy this game. But play HL2 first so you understand. New games rarely are 20 bucks and good $20 
 are even rare-er. 
  
  The ect.:
  Difficulty - Just Right - No running and gunning. Take cover and use your head.
  
  Learning 
 Curve - 0-30 mins - This is not a hard game to get ahold of. G-Gun is the only thing out of the 
 ordinary ,but thats what the first chapter is for.
  
  Classification - Worth the wait - A year of wait for 5 Hours. Sounds bad but when you compare it 
 to movies its worth it (but no popcorn....)
  
  Time Spent Playing to Date - 10H or Less - I got this Saturday and did not play it till Sunday. 
 5 hours played and beat it. Its worth the 5 Hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: revolutionbr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 5, 2006 10:19 am PT
Review:  It's a great sequence. It's has all the ingredients that made HL2 a blast and it's a trustworth 
 sequel for it. The plot is well developed too.
  But this game could be much better though:
  -Only 2 new enemy creatures were added (Zombines and Stalkers)
  -The game is too short, finishing 
 it in 4 hours on Normal mode...
  -When you feel the adrenaline again and can't stop playing it, it ends...
  -No veichle driving 
 part (like Highway 18 or Canal in HL2)
  -Short appearences of characters from previous games
  -No real awnsers to HL2 plot, except from 
 how did Alyx and Gordon left the Citadel
  
  The graphics improvements are nice, but no improvements in gameplay, no new stuff (weapons, enemies, 
 etc) at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khayman5
Rating: 6.2
Date: Jun 5, 2006 8:25 am PT
Review:  It was a lot of fun to play but it was incredibly short. Just when I thought this is getting good, 
 that was it, the credits started rolling. I understand fully that this is just an expansion but 
 for $20 I would have expected it to be at least 1/4 the length of the full game. Ive played short 
 expansions before but this was REALLY short. Id say you can finish it in 2 hours or less. Sadly 
 it looks like they are going to ration out what should be one full expansion pack, over several 
 small packs we pay $20 a pop for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ-D10
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 5, 2006 6:35 am PT
Review:  
  Where to start. I think I'll start with the bad.
  I won't bore you with the regular review as there are enough of those out there.
  Instead I want 
 to stop and think a bit about this episode concept.
  
  This is what Gabe Newell said in an interview with Gameinformer 2 months ago:
  "Newell: It took 
 me seven hours to play through the game the last time I played through it. Theres a lot of variability 
 of how long it takes people to play."
  
  I can't really see how such a short game can vary a lot in length. I certainly don't understand 
 how someone can make it last
  7 hours. I played on the hard setting and really tried to take my time, yet it only lasted just 
 over 4 hours in my case.
  If you try hard, you can probably manage to crank it up to 5 hours, but hardly more. However the 
 hard setting was surprisingly
  challenging at times, much more so than in HL2.
  
  Interestingly, in the same interview Gabe also said: "There are a couple of issues there. First 
 of all people in our community are very smart. You cant lie to them, you cant kid them, and you 
 certainly cant f*** them over because there are consequences to doing that."
  
  Well Gabe, I can't help but feel a bit ****ed over here. We waited 18 months for 4 hours of gameplay.
 
  If I understand the episode concept correctly, we should be getting frequent but short updates. 
 I'm willing to bet right now
  that Valve won't release 2 x 4 hours of gameplay in the next 12 months as they plan. If it took 
 them 18 months to make the first
  4, how can they do it twice again in the next 12 months? They can't, unless they have already finished 
 huge portions of it.
  
  I find it hard to rate this episode, as it is and feels like only a part of a game. The final score 
 should be based on the
  3 episodes Valve has announced.
  
  Let's try to break it down.
  Graphics = better than HL2, with the hdr and all.
  Sound & music = good.
  Weapons = the same, 
 however you are stuck with only gravity gun for the first hour, which doesn't really fit in such 
 a short game.
  Puzzles = much better than in HL2, sometimes you actually have to stop and think for a second :)
 
  Alyx = Excellent! AI is great, it doesn't feel like you are fighting with a npc at all, it feels 
 more like you are
  playing with a real person.
  Freedom = None, everyone gets the exact same experience. As you would expect from Valve, everything 
 feels very polished, you can
  feel all the hours spent play testing the game. At the same time you can also feel how everyone 
 else will be playing the game
  exactly like yourself, because there is no other way to do it. Everything is scripted and triggered, 
 as I mentioned you can't even
  use a weapon of your own choice for quite a while. Sometimes it feels like you are a rat in a maze, 
 there is a way though it, but
  only one way.
  
  In the end, it is an enjoyable experience, but awfully short. It's also worth noting that like 
 usually you don't get many answers
  to questions raised in previous games. We should be familiar with that by now.
  
  Oh and finally, 
 I recommend going through the commentary version for everyone who enjoyed The Lost Coast.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rlaw22
Rating: 4.2
Date: Jun 5, 2006 2:05 am PT
Review:  As a massive Half Life 2 fan I have been tracking the release of Episode One for some time and 
 ordered it as soon as the release date was confirmed, well it arrived on friday and what a disappointment. 
 The game does nothing to advance the story of Half Life 2 but the worst thing is the length of 
 the game (about 4 hours game play) . This is a complete rip off, 20 for a four hour game this is 
 not on. However I have an explaination for this, valve have obviously spent the last two years 
 or so writing the expansion for Half Life 2 called "aftermath" which probably had a game length 
 similar to the original Half Life 2. But after realising that that they would have a massive hit 
 on there hands after the success of the original, they split the game into three parts and are 
 charging 20 for each part (total 60) instead of the 30 or less they would have got for a complete 
 game. 
  
  The four hours a play are good don't get me wrong, but it's nothing new, no new game play, weapons 
 or characters.
  
  A very poor but profitable effort from Valve. This is one very disappointed gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grysh
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 5, 2006 1:49 am PT
Review:  Great game. Good variety and open spaces. The sound still glitches at loads
  but not as bad. The loads are still very long but fewer. Much more stable -
  DIDN'T CRASH ONCE 
 - YEAH! One comment is that here's Alyx in a jeans outfit running around taking some very heavy 
 fire - a bit unbelievable considering how the rest of the citizens react to heavy fire, they die 
 quickly and so they should. Give the girl a sexy protective suite and she should die if hit hard 
 enough, just like Gordon.
  1 It would be challenging to keep her alive
  2 It would be much more realistic
  3 It would be a nice distraction from the blood and gore.
 
  Love to hear others opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makeuser
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 5, 2006 1:13 am PT
Review:  HL2 was decent enough, looked good, played ok, many scenarios, action moved along, story beside 
 the point, terrible loads (Far Cry looked twice as good and didn't have that many loads) , so I 
 watched & read the gamespot review of the expansion and bought Episode 1. It's crap. Everything 
 i hated about HL2 was compounded in this installment. The weapons blow - totally inaccurate & underpowered 
 (the "RPG" has a 10% chance of hitting the target and about 50% chance of hitting you, but it has 
 a laser sight?!?! There are 2 boss fights and you have to use this piece of crap to defeat both, 
 ridiculous) . The play is boring; puzzles simplistic, enemies alternate between the 'combine' and 
 the headcrab-zombies & now the new & lame headcrab-zombies-combine!!! Oh boy! On top of that the 
 NPC's are now a lot more involved. Now, you have Alyx 'helping' you thru most of the episode. In 
 the Gamespot review they said she does a good job of 'helping' you with the enemy and being a good 
 virtual teammate. I found she was a total smacktard that got in the way as other NPC's in the previous 
 HL2. Why? Why? Why? If you can't program the NPC's correctly LEAVE THEM OUT!!! I shot her in the 
 head i was so frustrated w/her, she still just stood in the way, took the damage and said nothing! 
 You on the other hand say nothing all the time even though the NPC's dribble on constantly. Gamespot 
 goes on about seeing old characters and how they're practically like old friends now. What kind 
 of friends do Gamespot people have that they don't say anything to them or interact in anyway (scary) ? 
 And not only is your character non-interactive, he also can't jump (stereotype?) or climb anything 
 beside a ladder, ugh. The Scenarios don't change much from being in buildings, above and underground, 
 another oh boy! The story & NPC's are just PG lame, stupid & inane. Open doorways were difficlut 
 to go thru on occasion, something particularly annoying when there was enemy on the other side 
 and 95% of the scenarios take place indoors! This game disappointed and frustrated me and i recommend 
 you save your money and avoid the same fate.
  
  This is the last 'episode' of this series i will invest in. I suggest they pack it in (give the 
 money budgeted for the other episodes to someone to give Deus Ex another go or complete the next 
 Far Cry, or hire a detective to find out what happened to the next Duke Nukem) . i'll give these 
 guys something to do w/their crowbar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ovrman
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 4, 2006 11:45 pm PT
Review:  Strengths:
  -Source engine still looks fabulous graphically. Haunting, post-apocalyptic settings are revisited
 
  
  -Story is extended; a new and interesting chapter in the HL saga!
  
  -Level design and gameplay are just what is expected from Valve: AWESOME!
  
  -Witty dialogue 
 and professional voice acting lend to the production quality.
  
  -Gravity Gun usage and puzzles.
  
  Weaknesses:
  -Takes a while to get the story going. I 
 was actually bored with the first third of the game.
  
  -Except for the 'Zombines', nothing new in the way of enemies or weapons.
  
  -Ant Lions seem 
 strangely out of place in this episode... as they are in the middle of the city. Its as if the designer 
 needed an extra enemy to throw in for the sake of diversity.
  
  -Too many questions remain unanswered. The plot remains as questionable and mysterious as ever. 
 Previews of the game promised more (NPC) character development. This isn't the case.
  
  -My favorite character (of all the HL2 characters which have cameos) doesn't show up at all. : (
 
  
  Bottom Line:
  I completed the game in about 6 hours... and I took my time. The debate over 'episodic PC gaming' 
 will continue, but if Valve can produce an episode like this two or three times a year, then gamers 
 like myself will be happy to fork out the dough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billycole
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 4, 2006 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Many are saying that the game is too short. I really believe that what they're bummed about isn't 
 so much the number of hours of play, but the fact that nothing really happens in those hours of 
 play. The first 6 hours of half-life 2 rocked for example and I thought that, since the developers 
 knew they only had so much time, they would have made it count - I was wrong. 
  
  This game really seemed to flow like a demo: It felt partial.. non-engaging. The puzzles were lame 
 and a rehash. The worst part was that absolutely nothing new happened. Alex follows you around 
 the entire game which was neat for about 10 minutes and then she became a pain. She wouldn't shut 
 up for one thing and I could tell she was driving Gordon crazy. I really didn't like it because 
 if I had run into a room or down some path and she wasn't there I had to wonder why she wasn't 
 there and then run back and find out what she's doing. This knocks the exploration fun factor down 
 quite a bit. Same weapons, same bad guys, same environment, same exact everything. There's a whole 
 section where I have to walk around in the dark. This is just plain weak and it's insulting as 
 a matter of fact. I thought we were beyond this cheeseball type of challenge? 
  
  At any rate, if this is how this whole episode thing is going to be, I'm not going to be happy 
 about it. I'd much rather have a full new half life every 2 years than a cheeseball episode every 
 6 months. The story writers can't do certain things in these short episodes and that's a bummer 
 for us. Yes, you get new technology as it becomes available, you get to play "new" levels more 
 often, etc. but so what? I'd rather have one big full fine meal than a few small cheesey snacks.. 
 it's an entirely different experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hurdleguy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 4, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  I thought HL2: Episode One was a pretty great experience overall, considering it was only $20.
 
  
  I felt a much bigger connection this time to the characters as a whole, especially Alyx, who stays 
 by you side throughout the whole game. I loved how she kept flirting with Freeman, "Is there room 
 for two in there?". Oh Alyx you are dirty!
  
  The dialoge was great and there was some funny moments that had me LOLing, Kliener doing his speech 
 over the loudspeakers, good times.
  
  The game didn't feel that short to me. I took my time, listened to people's conversations, and 
 just absorbed the game. I beat it in about 5 hours I would say. 
  
  That being said, it was a thrilling 5 hours. There a bunch of scripted sequences that catch you 
 off guard and just make for an intense experience. I just loved walking into a room and not know 
 what exactly to expect. 
  
  Bad news is that you use the same weapons in HL2, all the same enemies, except for the new "zombine" 
 (which I thought were annoying to kill, especially when they charged at you with a live grenade) .
 
  
  But overall, it was a great experience and much more cinematic than previous HL games, which says 
 a lot. 
  
  I'm gonna play through again but with the commentary track on and see how that works. I think it's 
 pretty sweet how Valve lets you play through their game and the developers talk about each sequence. 
 It's another sign that video games are getting closer to movies!
  
  That's all I can think of now. Great game, can't wait for the next!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwnyy21
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 4, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Enough of how this game is short already, I as a hardcore gamer who am not easily tempted to give 
 up my money to purchase games am deeply satisfied with my latest purchase of episode 1.
  
  Its half life 2, with all the ingenuity, challenge and beauty in a condensed storyline that opens 
 as many new questions as it answers. The commentary mode is a great future for a shorter game that 
 gives more insight to the production and the storyline.
  
  As i wait for episode 2, i will have the satisifaction of knowing that the producers are making 
 quality games with their time, improving graphics and gameplay with each successive episode.
  
  If you every liked fps or pc gaming, this is a MUST BUY. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Setho10
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 4, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 was one of the greatest games ever made. It's ending left you questioning the very 
 nature of Gordan Freeman's existence. Unlike Half-Life 1 which ended similarly, the second Half 
 Life will be updated with episodic content to keep fans of the series satisfied. Episode One is 
 the first of these content expansions. It is tense, and enjoyable. But it ends all too soon.
  
  The gameplay in Episode One is virtually identical to that of the original Half Life 2. You 
 have the same guns with the same abilities as before. I did notice that the shotgun now had a two 
 shot burst which I dont recall it having in the first one, but that could just be my memory. Other 
 than that you fight the same enemies (minus the Zombine which is basically a grenade toting zombie) 
 in the same environments as before. You start the game where you left off, in the Combine fortress. 
 The Citadel as it is called, is in ruin and the graphical effect of the destroyed fortress is very 
 cool, as is the sky above it. The game starts out very easy and never gets all that difficult. 
 I only died in the last couple of levels, and once or twice against a Zombine. You start with your 
 souped up gravity gun but that is eventually taken away and turned back into its old normal self. 
 After you start getting your old weapons back the game really picks up. Alyx is a great supporting 
 character, and she is invaluable during many of the game's tougher sequences. Your teamwork really 
 adds a lot to the classic formula. As a side note, the AI controlling Alyx is some of the best 
 I have ever witnessed in gaming, and all of the AI has been improved for this game. By the end 
 of the game you will have ventured through zombie infested ruins, Combine strongholds and the Train 
 Station. All of these are great levels, and seem to have a lot more detail than the original game 
 did. 
  
  The game's graphics are essentially the same as they were two years ago. Some extra layers of polish, 
 greater detail on the backgrounds and textures, and an incredible optimization job really keep 
 the engine seeming as fresh as ever. Like the previous games, the digital actors are the highlight 
 of the graphics, making the already excellent script and voice acting come to life. 
  
  Speaking of voice acting, the audio package in this game is superb. The music is equally as brilliant 
 as before, the voice acting wonderful, the ambient noises just as eerie, and the weapons, if anything 
 sound even more powerful. The audio, is as always the true highlight of this Half Life package. 
 
  
  The main drawback of this game is the value. I beat it in a couple of days and there really isn't 
 any reason to go back, unless your a huge fan. There's no new multiplayer content, and the game 
 is overall too easy on the normal difficulty setting. As an added detraction the game doesn't have 
 nearly as much variation as before, with no driving levels, or epic battle sequences. For me this 
 is a major drawback, and lowers the value of the game just that much more.
  
  Overall Half Life 2: Episode One is a great game while it lasts. But its general lack of new content, 
 and the small variation in mission structure make this package harder to recommend. If your a Half 
 Life fan then this is an easy must buy, and the 19.99 price tag makes it a bit easier to swallow. 
 For anyone else who didn't really enjoy Half Life 2, or is thinking of picking this game up without 
 playing the first one, I recommend that you stray away from Episode One. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geosparovany
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 4, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  dont buy it , buy the classic one (half life 2)
  
  this is the review of half life 2
  
  It's hard to believe that, prior to Half-Life 2, Valve had really made only one game. Of course, 
 it was a masterpiece. Half-Life single-handedly reinvented the first-person shooter, putting the 
 emphasis on cinematic pacing and complete immersion in the experience. As a result, it paved the 
 way for many of the outstanding first-person shooters that have followed. And while there was little 
 question that there would eventually be a sequel, no one could have imagined the long and torturous 
 development process that led to Half-Life 2. Well, it's time to forget about that, because Half-Life 
 2 has arrived. And, in many ways, this big-budget sequel does what it sets out to do: Half-Life 
 2 is a technically amazing, sharply honed first-person shooter that pulls all the tricks that made 
 Half-Life such a beloved experience. With that said, many of those tricks feel more than a bit 
 familiar now, and the game itself is saddled with a disappointing story. Still, that doesn't stop 
 Half-Life 2 from being a very impressive and engaging shooter, and a faithful follow-up to one 
 of the greatest PC games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HTWingnut
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 4, 2006 5:05 pm PT
Review:  After the great game that was Half-Life 2, I was always adamant that I could be content with a 
 Half-Life 2.5 or even call it Half-Life 3 using the same graphics engine, as long as they could 
 publish it within a couple years. Well, Half-Life Episode One delivers as I had hoped and even 
 better.
  
  Ok, let me just say up front, as many others have stated, Episode One is short. But that doesn't 
 make it lacking in game play in any way shape or form. I don't know how Valve did it, but they 
 managed to squeeze many of the best gameplay elements into an action packed 6-7 hours. It's kind 
 of like making Lord of the Rings into a 100 page novel.
  
  HL2-Ep.1 takes you back into City 17 just as you remember it; In total chaos. The game play is 
 the familiar, but graphically they have added HDR support, and the voice acting and overall script 
 seems so much more tight. While there is nothing that groundbreaking, Valve did a great job maintaining 
 the great atmosphere you were used to in Half-Life 2.
  
  There are more zombies, headcrabs, Combine, antlions, and yes striders to hinder your progress 
 along the way. The gravity gun is critical in the beginning of the game too. But the most important 
 aspect that stands out is the cooperation between yourself and Alyx to make your way through the 
 story.
  
  There are several puzzles to solve along the way, and some pathfinding to get to where you need 
 to go. While creative, a couple of the puzzles are repeated too many times that it gets long in 
 the tooth real quick. And finding one's way at times can be a little confusing. But to no avail, 
 it only mildly degrades from the overall enjoyment of the game.
  
  Overall, for an expansion, Half-Life 2 Episode One is top notch. It is a great continuation of 
 the original story, and explains where things left off after the original one, albeit a little 
 bit trite. Highly recommend to any fan of the original HL2. And if you've never played Half-Life 
 2, then why haven't you? :) While HL2 isn't a prerequisite, you will be thoroughly confused with 
 Episode One.
  
  Good Luck and am looking forward to Episode Two.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: schlim
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 5, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  The story was way cool... and they really made your relationship with Alyx grow a ton. I would 
 be inclined to give this one a 10 if it wasn't for the abrupt ending... 
  
  It seemed slightly more difficult than HL2, you had to work harder to get stuff done... but it 
 was way stinkin fun. I wish there was a new weapon or two though... and maybe a couple more new 
 characters... I did love the 'Zombines' though that was smart the way they made them. 
  
  The bottom line, though, is I should still be playing this game right now... but I can't... cause 
 it's over : (... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jestyr40
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 4, 2006 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Valve brings the next installment in the HL2 universe the we will now know as episode one (what 
 was the first game we played Episode Zero?) .
  
  After spending $14 (it's 20 on valve's pay site) for the new expansion I was ready for a little 
 more than the 3 or so hours of game play that I received. Valve did not bring anything special 
 to the game play imo.
  
  The AI for Alex was great, and they definitely tightened her character up w/ quirky remarks, and 
 a generally good sense of humor. She seemed a bit awestruck with Gordon's skill at dispatching 
 the alien hordes, but I let it slide.
  
  The same AI that made Alex so believable, and endearing seemed to be lost on the other npc civilians. 
 I was forced to restart several times in the stage where you have to run civilians between the 
 two train stations. Several times they would get stuck, or run back to get a combine solider that 
 fired at them from several yards away. If I was a civilians I'd be keeping my head down, and running 
 as fast as possible, not trying to take a combine shotgun in the head because he suddenly spawned 
 close by.
  
  The game was standard HL2 fare which isn't bad, but a new gun, some new enemies (combine zombies 
 c'mon that's a slight cop out. they are faster, and suicide bomb you with grenades) maybe even 
 a new MP level or something would have just helped the game out a bit.
  
  In all the game play was great and the audio as always was amazing, but the quickness with which 
 it is over, and the next cliffhanger we are left with left an empty feeling in my pocket.
  
  If you love HL2, and must know now what happened at the end of the first storyline get the 
 game (but look around at retailers because 14 bux is better than the 20 they are charging on steam) . 
 I'm figuring in the next 6 months when Episode 2 comes out episode one will be 5 bux or so. Which 
 imo would be a good value for this type of episodic content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bankisa
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jun 4, 2006 12:23 pm PT
Review:  I loved Half-Life and i love Half-Life 2 even more. Both were amazing games for their times and 
 contained some of the best designed and compelling plot and gameplay to grace a PC. I'm happy to 
 report that on this level Half-Life 2: Episode One delivers as always. The pace is fast and you 
 are constantly forced to think on your feet. 
  
  The addition of having Alyx with you almost all of the time is nice, however it would have been 
 nice if they had used her presance as a means to offer up
  some more information on the backstory. She vary rarly says anything meaningful and it would seem 
 that this lack of information carries across to the other characters. 
  
  Dr Kliener has an amusing public broadcast telling people to evacuate the city, however it really 
 just covers old ground. I was really hoping for some concreat facts on what happened after Black 
 Mesa. It just seems a real shame that the lore is missing and raises some question as to if Valve 
 acually know what is happening or are they just making this up as they go along?
  
  Aside from the lacking information the game is good and seems to start to pick up pace as you rush 
 to help Barney get some civilians to an evacuation train. At this point you get into a little fight 
 with a strider and then all of a sudden the game is over.
  
  I never for a moment thought that it would end there. I figured that something else would come 
 up and we would be off on at least a couple more hours of adventure before things came to a close. 
 In all its taken me three days to complete all of this game, and thats playing about on hour a 
 day. This is a real dissapointment as theres just not enough of it to feel like you get into it. 
 
  
  Maybe once episode two comes out and you are able to play them back to back this will be somewhat 
 rectified, but at a seemingly steep $20 per episode its hard to imagine how valve can justtify 
 it.
  
  Over all its a good solid game while it lasts and its definatly worth a play if like me you love 
 the HL universe. Just dont expect anything amazing, its not quite up to the standards of Half-Life 
 2 and its ending in anti-climatic and sudden. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anubaph
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 4, 2006 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2: Episode One is by far a admirable successor to 2004's highly anticipated sequel to 
 the original Half-Life. The Source engine, with its great graphics, has received a fresh coat of 
 paint and, having been sent out into the world, amazes every bit as much as the original graphics 
 for Half-Life 2. Gameplay has been improved with a new team dynamic provided by the company of 
 Alyx Vance for most of the game and improved enemy AI, especially for Combine soldiers. The sound, 
 a highlight in Half-Life 2, is back and just as good as before, with amazing voice acting from 
 the entire returning cast. Value-wise, I feel that Gamespot was a little harsh on the game. Though 
 the game did take only about 6 hours for me to complete, it did only cost $20 on the day after 
 it was released, not to mention the commentary mode provides a way for players to play through 
 again after completing the game and get instant replay value.
  
  The gameplay is actually better than the original Half-Life 2, since you (as Gordon Freeman) spend 
 almost the entirety of the game with one of the fan favorites of Half-Life 2, Alyx Vance, a tough, 
 automatic pistol wielding character who through the Source engine's amazing face poser and equally 
 amazing voice acting is very 3 dimensional in her portrayal. Her interesting and entertaining comments 
 run the gamut from lame jokes to horror filled comments about stalkers, and you never feel alone 
 as you might have in some of Half-Life 2's long solo sequences.
  
  Enemies have also been improved in Episode One. Combine soldiers make better use of cover than 
 previously and Antlions come out of burrows that can only be plugged by covering then with wrecked 
 cars. The only reason gameplay gets a 9 instead of a 10 is the lack of new enemies or weapons. 
 The only new enemy is the Combine zombie, or as Alyx named it, the "Zombine." Though a terrifying 
 opponent which can take as many as four direct shotgun blasts to kill at the normal setting, and 
 made even more terrifying in the fact that the Zombines have a habit of running at you full speed 
 with an armed grenade, the lack of any other new enemies and especially weapons restricts your 
 tactics to the same ones used in Half-Life 2.
  
  The graphics for Episode One have also been given slight additions. Though I can not attest to 
 how good the graphics can look, since I have a very bad graphics card, I can state that they are 
 the best I have seen on my computer.
  
  With the return of the entire cast of characters from the original Half-Life 2 comes the voice 
 actors who brought them to life. The voice acting and game sounds are just as great as Half-Life 
 2, but the music is still just as weak, showing up every once in a while and not really doing anything 
 for the game.
  
  I give the game a reviewers tilt of 10 since I feel that Valve has done a great thing for the 
 Half-Life saga by moving to episodic content. While it took six years for Half-Life 2 to come out 
 after the original Half-Life, and 16 months for Episode One after that, Episode Two is expected 
 in only 6 months and Episode Three in a year. With shorter games and thus shorter development times, 
 the long gap between the famous cliffhanger endings the Half-Life series is known for can be shortened 
 a little bit, not to mention the graphics of the Source engine can be constantly updated.
  
  Once again, Half-Life 2: Episode One is a worthy successor to Half-Life 2 and I am looking 
 forward to Episode Two, especially after the teaser provided at the end of the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dustinsteele
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 4, 2006 10:50 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2 Episode One is a great, solid game, but it was a little too short for me. I played 
 it on regular difficulty and it took me about 5 hours. The graphics are great and the sound as 
 usual is nothing less than amazing. Valve dose a good job keeping the action going and mixing it 
 up. The atmosphere is spectacular, and you really feel the need to escape from the burning and 
 deteriorating Citadel. One thing that i didnt like however is the human outposts (hideouts, railway, 
 safehouses, etc.) there is very few of them unlike in Half Life 2. So all in all i think that Valve 
 did a excellent job, although it should have been longer. It is a great game and i think its worth 
 the 20 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rigges
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 4, 2006 9:38 am PT
Review:  Half-Life has always set new standards in gaming. The original basically reinvented the FPS genera 
 to include in-depth game play, story, NPC interacting, comedy and most importantly fun and adventure. 
 It inspired games like Counter-Strike and Day of Defeat and made nerds with glasses and a beard 
 fill like heroes! 
  
  After a very long wait and delay after delay along came the sequel aptly titled Half-Life 2. In 
 fact it was released one month shy of 6 years since the original was released and things had really 
 changed, in terms of technology and in terms of story. Half-Life 2 was an excellent game that brought 
 story telling to a new level with charming characters and flawless voice sync. The only problem 
 was the story wasnt really that good and you never really figure out anything as you play through 
 the game which was in the eyes of many its biggest drawback. 
  
  Almost 2 years later and into the present, Half-Life 2: Episode One arrives. In fairness if this 
 was their plan all along I like it. The latest addition fills in a lot of the story gaps that you 
 may have found with Half-Life 2 and at the same time opens up a whole new world of possibilities. 
 You quickly learn exactly what is going on and why events of the last game were taking place although 
 all the questions posed are still not answered and the G-Man will still be just as much a mystery 
 for many Episodes to come. 
  
  Interaction with Alyx puts you on a whole new playing field giving you the feeling you got in the 
 original when your trusty side kick Barney would follow you around spouting funny comments and 
 observations along the way. Alyx however also interacts with you and is completely necessary to 
 your progression in the game; shell even prompt you to danger allowing you to escape just in time 
 which really adds to the feel and suspense of the moment. 
  
  Basically this is the same old Half-Life 2 with very few new additions, the game is too short at 
 only 6 hrs of game time for an average player and you still wish the could have developed the story 
 a little further. However the additions they did make and as much of the story as they do tell 
 is compelling and very much a taster of things to come and when it tastes this good, you can only 
 look forward to Episode 2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krayman
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 4, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  The story goes on with a nice and excellent step forward with its action and more coperation with 
 Alyx makes the extra flavor...
  it may be short but it got it meanings and the Graphics are better and it still looks nice with 
 the HL2 Engine, Very well done from Valve I think and I am looking forward for the next episode 
 and trust me it is worth your money but the wait?? I dont know if we have to wait so long when 
 they got all the textures they have to just puzzle it... Anyways this game is a must-play and trust 
 me it is worth every second of playing it... Me I finished it at the same time I started it and 
 yes it is short.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bupp
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 4, 2006 7:48 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2: Episode One is the first of three sequels to the award-winning shooter Half Life 2, 
 which was released in 2004. Half Life 2 ended with a cliffhanger and Episode One picks up right 
 where HL2 ended. Half Life 2 Episode One is about Gordon and Alyx's escape from City 17.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Half Life 2: Episode One has more of the same awesome gameplay that HL2 had. Except there's 
 more of it in HL2 Episode One and it feels more intense. Enemies can now grapple down buildings 
 and they seem to be smarter this time around. There is a new enemy -- a zombified combine soldier 
 which adds more challenge. There are numerous puzzles throughout the levels which will take more 
 time to figure out than the ones from HL2. Alyx is by your side throughout the entire game this 
 time and she is very helpful. Although some of the things she says are kind of stupid, she is great 
 with a gun.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics in Episode One are almost the same as in HL2, except for one huge difference. 
 The HDR lighting in Episode One makes this game seem so much more realistic. There are still the 
 annoying hiccups where the FPS drops significantly for a moment, but they are much more uncommon 
 than last time.
  
  SOUND: The audio in Episode One is pretty stellar. The voice acting is top-notch and the music 
 is pretty good. All of the guns and effects sound pretty much the same, but that's not a bad thing.
 
  
  VALUE: Value is the only problem with this game. It's over before you know it. There are only five 
 levels, so you can finish the game in an afternoon. But, since this is just part one of three, 
 it is to be expected that the game is short.
  
  Half Life 2: Episode One is an excellent installment in the Half Life series. It has even better 
 gameplay than Half Life 2 and better graphics. The only problem is how short the game is. I will 
 say though that it ends with a cliffhanger, so expect more episodes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ptsigas20
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2006 7:19 am PT
Review:  Well for starters this game rated at Best is a complete understatement : (
  
  I really enjoyed how you got to interact with Alyx more this time. Yes i know that Freeman does 
 not speak much but he doesnt need to.. hes that good!
  
  anyways, Graphics- even though Hl 2 and Ep1 are not "next Gen", such as Crysis or FEAR, they still 
 are pretty nice especially when backed up by a stellar plot. 
  
  The action in the game was Superb! i enjoyed how i got out of one tight area of madness and wound 
 up in an even greater area of danger! 
  
  anyways going to play this 8 times over - hl 1 again plus its expansions until ep 2 comes out ! 
 
  
  -Game On- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _deadrat
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 18, 2006 2:16 am PT
Review:  I just have to start by saying that Half-Life 2: Episode One is the best 4 hours I have ever spent 
 playing a game. Its truly an incredible experience and one which kept me entertain throughout. 
 It's not perfect and there are a few things that kind of bug me about this game but rest assured 
 that you wont be disappointed as long as you realise the game is not very long.
  
  Gameplay score: 8
  Absolutely amazing. The game is a more intelligent FPS than most because many 
 of the battle sequences are puzzles. You'll have to look at the arena and figure out its solution, 
 usually by using the gravity gun.
  
  One of my few hates about Half-Life 2 was the allied NPCs. Whether it was the ant-lions or the 
 rebels, I found they bunched around me and got in my way. It was extremely annoying and I died 
 way too many times because of them blocking my retreat. I would often just send the rebels to their 
 death so that I could get some room. Luckily this didn't happen at all in this game. The reason 
 is that there is only one character following you, Alyx. She is fairly smart and she rarely ever 
 blocked me.
  
  I think that Valve made a great choice with having Alyx be with you and help you out for almost 
 the entire game. I loved the way that she would congratulate you after a large battle. Her reactions 
 to events in the story, like the train crash, really made her seem much more human. She added to 
 the game immensely. My only problem with Alyx is her smile. It just looks so fake to me.
  
  This section would get a 9 except for a few reasons. I found that certain areas of this game were 
 much harder than others. I always play my games on the hardest setting, and with no quick saves, 
 but I found one of the sequences in this game to be just brutal. The section that stands out the 
 most for me is where you have to bring power to a lift to get back to the surface. I missed her 
 hint about following the wire to the power room. I ran around for 10 minutes in the dark trying 
 to figure out what to do next. I ended up stacking up objects and climbing through a hole in the 
 roof to get to the room, instead of simply opening the door. The brutal part was what happened 
 next. Let me just say that I found the battery life on the flash light was a little too short.
 
  
  The last thing that bugs me about this series is the load times. This is one of those things that 
 stops the game from being truly great and getting a 10. I hated it in the original Half-Life and 
 I hate it now. You'll be running along, having a great time, when suddenly everything stops for 
 a load screen. It totally breaks up the action and makes the game far less immersive than it would 
 of been if they had streamed the levels, like what Retro did with Metroid Prime.
  
  Graphics score: 10
  What can I say. This is the most visually stunning game I have ever played. 
 I was able to play the game maxed out but I believe that this game will still look great on lower 
 end PC's. Its not so much the technical side that I like but more its artistic beauty. The animations, 
 character models and the environments were simply spectacular.
  
  Sound score: 9
  I played this game using a good set of headphones and it sounded great. There are a few funny sound 
 effects, like if you pick up a rock with the gravity gun and knock it against a wall. I just wish 
 there was more music to this game because I enjoyed what was there.
  
  Value score: 7
  I have played through this game twice today. Once was on hard, with no quick saves, and the other 
 was on easy with the commentary activated. Going through the game a second time just to listen 
 to the informative commentary is totally worth it. I doubt that I will touch it again, except to 
 refresh myself on the story just before the second episode is released. The game includes Half-Life 
 2's deathmatch but you will already have this if you bought Half-life 2. I am still happy with 
 my purchase and will definitely be buying the next episode.
  
  Overall score: 8
  This is a great game that I can recommend to people who enjoyed Half-Life 2, and who go into it 
 knowing that its a 4 hour game. I don't suggest that you play this until you have finished both 
 Half-Life and Half-Life 2 because this game is quite story heavy and you would miss out on a lot.
 
  
  I played this game using:
  3500+, 1GB Ram, 7600GT
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shamarke
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 4, 2006 5:07 am PT
Review:  Before I start with the good stuff, I want to get the one bad thing about this game out of the 
 way. Episode 1 is very very short. People with any affinity for first person shooters will be able 
 to beat this game in less than 8 hours. Although it costs only about 20 dollars, I still feel like 
 I should have gotten atleast a few more hours of gameplay. It would have been nice to get the length 
 that is present in the expansions for the first Halflife.
  
  Now, on to the good stuff. The gameplay is awesome. There is the traditional shooter content, and 
 some neat (although sometimes unnecessary) puzzles as well. The gameplay is awesome, as well... having 
 Alyx on your side is super cool, and she provides good narration that progresses the storyline, 
 and some laughs as well. Fans used to the classic "halflife moments" will not be disappointed, 
 either. Also, there is nice progression of the story... but, as in Halflife 1 and 2, the ending 
 raises more questions than it answers.
  
  The graphics are very cool, and the game utilizes the new lighting stuff (i believe its the HDR 
 stuff) very well. Sometimes, however, the lighting seems way too intense... I could often find myself 
 looking at a flourescent lamp and half the screen would white out. Gameplay was also stable on 
 my somewhat-dated computer (P4 2.8, 1 GB RAM, 128 MB Geforce 6600 GT) at 1024x768 resolution with 
 HDR and settings on high.
  
  Fans of Halflife and any mild FPS fan definately need this expansion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: koolgraphic
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 6, 2006 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Gordon is back and in top form too. HL2 ended suddenly and I was lost because the story line was 
 cut short and I was wondering what happened afterwards but this game has made things clear about 
 what happened.
  
  The opening scenes are good to look at and you can look at the GMan's face and see disappointment 
 that he did not get to you in time. I dont want to spoil the fun for you but this is how the plot 
 starts.
  
  The gameplay is far better than what I saw in HL2 when it was released and the A. I. has realy improved 
 since then. Alyx is a major part of this game, in short she is your guide throughout the game. 
 She is smart and funny and covers your back pefectly. The only problem I had with this game was 
 that she never dies but I guess that is a good thing. The enemy A. I. has improved and those guys 
 are smarter now, so watch out. The gameplay will suck you in that you almost forget that it is 
 linear. 
  
  Graphics has improved and I noticed that it seems they have added more texture or ijmproved texture 
 on the characters. The light (HDR) effects in this game is a true wonder. The HDR does not make 
 your hardware weep and come to think of it, the game runs smoothlier (is this a word) than ever.
 
  
  Sound is everything in this game especially if you have a 5.1 system then you will feel the horror 
 and excitement just playing this game. I especially like it when dropships fly over and you can 
 feel it as if you were there.
  
  The overall value of this game is good and I wish it lasted longer and I can't wait to purchase 
 the next episode because this one is so good I can play it all over again taking my time while 
 doing it.
  
  Get this game if you have not if you are a fan of HL and also for fans new to this game. You wont 
 regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: augrunt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 4, 2006 2:30 am PT
Review:  This game will blow your mind! It follows the events at the end of Half-Life 2... It answers the 
 questions that burn in our mind at the end of the tragic explosion. How it happened? You gotta 
 play to find out. I can tell you that you are again Gordon Freeman and you are pulled out of the 
 wreckage by a "DOG".
  
  The Gameplay is again the same as it's older brother with not much changed if not nothing. All 
 that has changed is the fact you now fight side-by-side with Alyx. Who well comments on everything 
 and really helps you dive into the story better. Aswell as dive into a hole infested with headcrab 
 infested civilians and the new enemy, Zombines!
  
  The graphics again are amazing the same engine is again used but you can notice a few touch ups 
 to textures. But mainly you will be seeing the same sort of quality from the it's predecessor. 
 
  
  The Sound again is prestine with bullets almost every few seconds flying at you. You are immersed 
 in the sound and find yourself actually ducking at times under your desk and moving to the left 
 and right. The voice acting again is movie-quality.
  
  Again all this is tragically short and one can say this game leaves more questions then answers 
 again with a climatic finish that will make you weep for more.
  
  It is truly worth buying as it also does not require the previous game. So if you played your friends 
 copy of half life 2, Don't dive into your wallet yet as you only require this baby to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ergo2497
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 4, 2006 12:32 am PT
Review:  (Small spoilers here and there; be wary)
  
  HL2: E1 is the first of a series of three "episodes' which will collectively form a sequel to the 
 best-selling PC shooter Half-Life 2. If you didn't like that game, then you can go ahead and forget 
 about the episodes - they don't revolutionize the game. They simply tweak it and condense it down 
 into brief but excellent bursts of excitement. To use a Seattle metaphor (Valve is based in nearby 
 Bellevue, WA) : If HL2 was a grande latte, HL2: E1 is a shot of pure, high quality espresso.
  
  Episode One is essentially a fast-paced ride through HL2 in reverse: you begin at the foot 
 of the Citadel with just your gravity gun, which will briefly regain its super-charge only to lose 
 it again. This was a very smart decision on Valve's part, as the super-charged grav-gun made the 
 endgame of HL2 very easy. Here, using the grav-gun is challenging, as the game will throw the same 
 numbers of enemies at you as before, but there are fewer health stations. All in all, the first 
 few levels are a nice refresher course which pave the way for the ramp-up in difficulty that is 
 evident in Episode One, although the pace can flag a bit towards the very start.
  
  Since you only have the grav-gun in the game's beginning, you'll be relying mostly on Alyx to do 
 the shooting for you. Alyx will be with you for most of the game, excepting one or two puzzle sequences, 
 and she proves a competent ally. While you don't have to babysit her, Alyx can die if left completely 
 unaided, but more often than not you'll want to stick with her just for the extra firepower.
  
  Episode One's firefights have a tendency to be much more chaotic than HL2's - multiple kinds 
 of enemies are blended into each fight to great effect. While HL2 would toss several Combine at 
 you, then some headcrabs, then some more Combine, Episode One will have you entering into the middle 
 of already massive brawls between Combine and Headcrabs, then have both turn and start attacking 
 you, making the fights feel a bit like a free-for-all. This panicked deathmatch-esque feel is refreshing, 
 and much more welcome than the combat in HL2, which would often get stale due to the lack of variety.
 
  
  Variety is in fact the key thing in this expansion: don't be fooled by the reviews, there are plenty 
 of new situations to encounter in Episode One, such as - tricky respawning "burrows" for Ant-Lions; 
 a level that takes place in almost complete, claustrophobic darkness; friends with sniper rifles 
 and last but not least, the new enemy in the game, the Zombine. This headcrab on a Combine body 
 is a little like a cross between the bomb-headed kamikazes from Serious Sam and a walking tank 
 - they can take huge amounts of damage, are more capable of running than normal headcrabs (although 
 not quite as fast as the quick variety) and have the unpleasant habit of running around with activated 
 grenades in hand. Because of the nature of these enemies, you'll want to draw a bead on them first 
 - making you even more panicked when you're surrounded, as you will be several times in Episode 
 One.
  
  In fact, if there's one thing Episode One does even better than HL2, it's the scare factor. The 
 dehumanized workers that lurked in the Citadel play a larger role this time around, and are almost 
 guaranteed to freak you out completely in one scene. The dark level, Lowlife, has you desperately 
 avoiding running out of battery for your flashlight and sweeping the area constantly to try and 
 see those zombies creeping up on your flanks. It's the best integration of survival-horror into 
 an FPS to date. Valve somehow figured out what Doom3 and F. E. A. R failed to do: how to introduce 
 dark, scary environments with limited flashlight battery without feeling cheap.
  
  It is worthwhile to note that even though Episode One is intense almost from start to finish, it 
 is a rather short ride. 6 solid hours of gameplay still feels like a ripoff for $20, especially 
 when all three episodes, with approx. 18 hrs of gameplay total, will equal $60 - $10 more than 
 the original game. Still, if each episode manages to approach the high concentration of Half-Lifey 
 goodness into the relatively small doses, it feels fairly well worth it.
  
  While Episode One doesn't totally reinvent the series, it introduces some intriguing new twists, 
 is brilliantly paced, and fun from start to finish. I can certainly recommend it to anyone who 
 enjoyed HL2 and wants to see what happens next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrbojangles25
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 3, 2006 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Before I start with the good stuff, I want to get the one bad thing about this game out of the 
 way. Episode 1 is very very short. People with any affinity for first person shooters will be able 
 to beat this game in less than 8 hours. Although it costs only about 20 dollars, I still feel like 
 I should have gotten atleast a few more hours of gameplay. It would have been nice to get the length 
 that is present in the expansions for the first Halflife.
  
  Now, on to the good stuff. The gameplay is awesome. There is the traditional shooter content, and 
 some neat (although sometimes unnecessary) puzzles as well. The gameplay is awesome, as well... having 
 Alyx on your side is super cool, and she provides good narration that progresses the storyline, 
 and some laughs as well. Fans used to the classic "halflife moments" will not be disappointed, 
 either. Also, there is nice progression of the story... but, as in Halflife 1 and 2, the ending 
 raises more questions than it answers.
  
  The graphics are very cool, and the game utilizes the new lighting stuff (i believe its the HDR 
 stuff) very well. Sometimes, however, the lighting seems way too intense... I could often find myself 
 looking at a flourescent lamp and half the screen would white out. Gameplay was also stable on 
 my somewhat-dated computer (P4 2.8, 1 GB RAM, 128 MB Geforce 6600 GT) at 1024x768 resolution with 
 HDR and settings on high.
  
  Fans of Halflife and any mild FPS fan definately need this expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vindog800
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 3, 2006 10:52 pm PT
Review:  How does one release a game and not have an inferiority complex after seeing Valves latest creation. 
 Somehow Valve has managed to deftly weave wry humor and sexual energy into what was already a rock 
 solid story telling convention and trust me on this, you will laugh out loud at some of the off 
 cuff remarks the characters throw out during some of the battle sequences. During one catch your 
 breath moment you overhear a human couple talking to each other about how they miss Dr Breens 
 TV show since the rebellion and that when their bored they really miss the Combine and some of 
 their wonderful torture tactics. Reading the banter does not do it justice so its hard for me 
 to describe, but in my view its a welcome addition. Did I also mention sexual energy? Alex is 
 making some big time subtle moves on our voiceless hero and it doesnt take a rocket scientist 
 (even though Gordon is one) to understand whats on her hot bodied little mind when all of this 
 saving the world stuff is over and done with. I do have a couple of very small gripes though, one 
 Im sure everyone will have (its simply not long enough) and the other, in my view, is too much 
 focus on the flashlight and gravity gun. Dont even look for any gun play on your part until at 
 least  of the way through the episode and when it does start to come , at least on the hardest 
 setting, ammo is neither conveniently located or in plentiful supply. Remember Valve this is still 
 an FPS and moments of unlimited ammo crates and blazing heavy weaponry are still an FPS fans drug 
 of choice. With minor gripes noted, all and all this is an extremely polished and satisfying game. 
 The characters, dialog, animation, all believable, the action frantic, mixing puzzle solving on 
 the fly this time. Trying to figure out how to solve some of the puzzle sequences with not only 
 the combine after you in full repelling force, but a new enemy called the Zombine (Zombie Combine 
 Soldiers with head crabs attached and grenades in hand) , hoards of ant-lions, along with the boss 
 man, 10 or 20 regular zombies, both fast and slow, and to top off the party, super snipers in tall 
 buildings, their blue laser sights sweeping their familiar I can hit a fly from two miles away 
 accuracy , all attacking at the same time. Makes for some very seat of your pants decision making 
 to say the least. My rating? (9.5) Enjoy
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BNOv5
Rating: 4.9
Date: Jun 3, 2006 9:46 pm PT
Review:  This game has you going thru bugs at a time then the combine soldiers at a time,, barely fightin 
 each other.. this game does look like a super trooper spin off with the gestapo and super-dehumans 
 left from torture servin a higher power... very wierd , hate those bugs and the head humpers... so 
 whats left is the graphics which werent even showed off,, plus no 64 version,, This is DUBBED "The 
 Lost Episode"
  
  The sound sux cant ever hear what my sidekick is sayin , the best I can get is after I figure the 
 side game puzzle... Valve gave us a preview of the next episode at the end which did look appealing, 
 but no sign of the Lost Coast reminense 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnochLight
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 3, 2006 8:53 pm PT
Review:  Worth every penny, this short but sweet sequel to HL2 is well worth the wait. A great combination 
 of immersive AI, puzzle solving, FPS, and an incredibly detailed story make this expansion one 
 of the best games to grace your screen. Top notch voice overs, good humor, and a mouth-watering 
 teaser at the end... 
  
  If there is any game out there that is worth your hard earned cash, it would be this short episode 
 - get it; get it today!!!!
  
  GO! GO! GO! GO! GO! GO! GO! GO! GO! GO! GO! GO! GO! GO! GO! GO! GO! GO! GO! GO! GO! GO! GO! GO! 
 GO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffosoft
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 3, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Episode 1 was good... however has anyone considered the crap valve is feeding us? "The game will 
 be released faster this way" We will be paying $60 for an expansion.. thats more then I paid for 
 the game when it came out valve I truely beleive is only using this as a marketing ploy they probably 
 nearly have Episode 2 and even 3 finished they are just holding back to cash in it on. Anyway good 
 expansion But I dont feel it will be worth $60. I honestly would have rather waited for this overdue 
 expansion to be finsihed so I could see the entire game then having to play part wait 6 months 
 forget what its about and then play episode 2 then 3 ect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hiryu3
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 3, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  This was a great game. The story was in line with the superb HL2 storyline. Everything in the game 
 was beautiful and flowed well. Playing through it once you get to the end you have a sense of wanting 
 more.
  
  Personally I got through this game on normal difficulty in about 3 hours. Some people would say 
 that is too short for $20.00 but for me money is really not an issue. I've played $50.00 games 
 that were very long and were very crappy. I must say that this is a buy especially if you enjoy 
 the HL series of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dylr291
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 3, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  The Half-Life series are some of the best games I've ever played. They have a good story, good 
 gameplay, and they always leaving you wanting more. This is why when Half-Life 2 Episode One came 
 out, I was so psyched to start playing it. When I did start, it did not let me down, beginning 
 right where Half-Life 2 left off. However, they do not explain the story nearly as good as when 
 Half-Life 1 transitioned to Half-Life 2. I could not wait to see how Alyx and Gordon managed to 
 get out of the Citadel safely, and when it showed me how, I was thinking what the heck just happened. 
 Then from there, you just keep running and gunning down enemies, with gameplay that isn't too original. 
 Most of the game is looking for the power supply, and unlocking the door to get to the next section. 
 I have to say it was pretty fun, and I had a good time playing it, but the ending was what really 
 made me pretty angry at the game. I had no idea that the game was over when all of a sudden, the 
 credits started rolling. It completly took me by surprise. The game had virtually no ending, just 
 like Half-Life 2.
  
  The questions I wanted answered from Half-Life 2 were not revealed. For example, G-Man is barely 
 even a part of this game. He makes one appearence and says one thing. The game leaves you hanging 
 just as bad as Half-Life 2 also. All in all the game was good and I enjoyed it, but to get the 
 answers I want, I now have to wait at least until the end of this year, and if they aren't answered 
 then, then I have to wait until Christmas 2007! If you want to play some more of that HL2 gameplay 
 I would reccommend this but only if you have nothing to do that day you buy it. I beat the game 
 all in one day, in two sittings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: datbush
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 3, 2006 4:57 pm PT
Review:  I was excited when The expansion for hl2 was finally out, but dissipointed in this Ridiculous Episode 
 scam valve came up with its just an excuse to be lazy. This is not a years worth of work.
  
  Pros: The same great gameplay with some good improvements.
  Voice Acting is still top of 
 the line and lots of dialogue.
  story is decent.
  Environments still look nice and HDR is implemented.
  Many great aspects are unchanged.
  Action 
 can be more intense than the first.
  flashlight battery increased (i think)
  high replayability
  
  Cons: WAYYYYYYY TO SHORT. SHORTER THAN BLUE SHIFT I CANT STRESS THIS 
 ENOUGH. 4 hours tops without commentary
  story answers vary few questions.
  NO New MP content.
  Levels are even more linear and too dark for too long dark in some areas.
 
  no new guns.
  not enough fodder.
  
  die hard HL2 fans will want to get this but others will want to consider if 4 hours (tops) of SP 
 and no new Mp content is worth 20 bucks
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trigun0006
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 3, 2006 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong, i think the $20 was worth every penny for this game, but it is like the game 
 is so great that you want more. The game is actually more fun than the origional half-life 2 which, for 
 the past 18 months, i thought was impossible. it has the same base gameplay, same great physics, 
 same great characters, same great enemies (with some additions) , and the most amazing level design 
 i think i have ever seen in a game. Everything from the puzzles to the zombie placement is perfect. 
 To add to what are some of the best graphics in a game (hl2 as of 2004) , they added an amazing 
 lighting system to rival the doom 3 engine. the levels in the dark are amazingly responsive to 
 the emergency flares and your flashlight. The levels are amazing and the environments are great. 
 the puzzles are fun and not too hard to have to repeat if you do mess up. there is a part with 
 an elevator where there is garbage and pices of building falling where you have to use the gravity 
 gun to your advantage. The puzzle took me about 5 deaths to really figure out but it was even fun 
 to die. The game includes the SLAM which was added to half-life 2 deathmatch which is a lazer trip 
 mine. To anyone who played the origional half-life, you will probably remember the puzzles with 
 lazer trip mines, now they are back. anyone who played half-life 2 should get it. the only problem 
 is that no new multyplayer was added. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: velvetkloud
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 3, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  As soon as episode one starts the familiar goosebumps that recent games haven't quite succeeded 
 in achieving to the same degree return... with reinforcements.
  The story and world of half life are now firmly established so the writers waste no time and steam 
 straight ahead, starting from the very moment half life 2 left off.
  The cinematic feel of the previous games is very much prevalent within episode one and because 
 of the short sharp nature of the game it actually seems to work better. Even more so now it feels 
 as if you are in a film with the continually flowing story a lot more seamless than half life 2 
 could manage. This is also helped along with the co-operative nature of playing through alongside 
 Alyx whose continual chatter really adds a new dimension to the game.
  Personally Half Life episode one is exactly what I was wanting from this instalment and more, I 
 can't wait til the end of the year when episode two arrives, a trailer of which appears when you 
 complete episode one and looks to finally tear us away from the familiarity of city 17.
  Familiarity is the key with episode one, offering little new but rather keeping us in recognisable 
 territories, letting us satisfy our need for just a little more. That need continues at the end 
 of this installment but it seems this time Valve knew we would be craving completely fresh locations 
 and enemies and are preparing something that will deliver just that.
  Some people, as with Sin Episodes, still seem to be complaining about how short it is. Perhaps 
 it's time they pushed aside their traditional gaming values for a bit and try something new. Though 
 I wouldn't want this method of gaming to get out of control and start to be used unnecessarily 
 there is certainly a place in the gaming world for the episodic format. 
  I can certainly think of worse ways I have spent a piddly 10. 
  Being the same price as a dvd, 
 episode one further proves it is the closest you can currently get to an interactive movie, the 
 bonus being we only have 6 months to wait until the next one! 
  Valve have managed to totally change the dynamics of gaming here and any critics should open their 
 eyes a tad and embrace it.
  Welcome back Gordon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tabasko69
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 7, 2006 2:45 pm PT
Review:  18 months was a long time to wait without answers, but finally the day has come. Was is worth the 
 wait? Without question! Episode 1 met all of our expectations and surpassed some. As soon as you 
 enter the game, you will find out exactly how Gordon and Alyx survived the massive explosion.
 
  The gameplay is absolutely top notch and everything just works perfectly. The teamwork Alyx provides 
 makes the game only that much more exciting, and gives you even more responsibility than in HL2. 
 You will not only be trying to save your own behind, but protect Alyx in the process. Coupled with 
 the better puzzle solving, this is a great experience. The real kicker is that it's only 4 - 6 
 hours long, but at least we will not have to wait as long for the next episode. Hopefully we will 
 be playing that one this Winter.
  Is the game worth the $20 asking price? Without a doubt. Being that it is a 4 - 6 hour game doesn't 
 even come into the equation, because chances are good you will be playing through the game more 
 than once. Though I have not played with the commentary mode yet, that should only prove to add 
 even more to the game. Personally, the game took me exactly 4 hours to complete on the medium difficulty. 
 I did find it ended quick, but the experience was truly amazing. If you a hardcore player and want 
 to try to get through the game as quick as you can, it should only take you a little over 3 hours.
 
  EP1 does have a few bugs that didn't get squashed during testing though. One area in particular, 
 took me around a half hour to get through only due to a bug. I didn't realize there was a bug at 
 first, until I reloaded my last save. Other bugs that have been reported include missing textures 
 and stuttering. I personally had the game stutter quite badly at a point near the end of the game, 
 but it ironed itself out fairly quickly.
  
  Does this episodic delivery thing work? Well, instead of players paying $60 for a 15 hour game, 
 they will pay $20 each for three 5 hour games. If Valve finds the need to update the source engine 
 with the new releases, players can be welcomed with better graphics, sound, gameplay or whatever 
 else they want to throw in. Because of the new graphic additions to EP1, modders will also be able 
 to add HDR and such to their personal maps, so you can be sure to see mods in progress and in the 
 future to have some stellar graphic tweaks.
  No question. If you enjoyed HL2, pick up EP1, you will not be disappointed. I am awarding Half-Life 
 2: Episode 1 a well deserved score of "9.1"
  
  The good & The bad:
  
  + Top rate gameplay
  + Teamwork and puzzle solving
  + HDR is best we've seen so far
  + Sounds 
 amazing, especially with 5.1
  + Commentary is back!
  
  - Minor bugs, including stuttering at points
  - Can complete the game in an evening 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fl4rty
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2006 2:53 pm PT
Review:  This is a the first episode of 3, (state the obvious) . The source engine still looks fantastic, 
 and with refined textures and the HDR its looking better than ever. I noticed the improvement on 
 the graphics when i first looked at Alyx as im sure everyone else did, and the HDR is brilliant 
 giving the maps a more photographic quality.
  
  The story continuation is more focused on the escape of city 17 and rising two new questions, which 
 i wont post here (buy and play the damn thing fool) as well as being the starting point of the 
 continuation of the new story.
  
  The gameplay is improved aswell, the enemys A. I has been tweaked, for example they make more use 
 of grenades, the weapons secondry fire and cover more this time around. The puzzles are extremerly 
 satisfying and more complex than before, and the way the two are combined (hahahaha get it?) makes 
 for spectacular gameplay. If you enjoyed the Ravenholm level in HL2 you will love the new zombie 
 orientated level in Episode 1, and with the introduction of the zombie combine it makes for brilliant 
 gameplay, i just hope you aint afraid of the dark.
  
  If you live in the U. K then the value is brilliant if you buy off steam thanks to the exchange 
 rate, its only around 10 which means the entire series will cost 30, hey thats how much i paid 
 for HL2 when it was released =)
  
  Theres only 3 points i found with Episode 1 that i found were a bit of a let down, ***MINOR SPOILERS***
 
  
  1. you only see G-man once
  2. to many antlions
  3. far far to short which i think everyone can agree on, i was hoping for more like 6 - 7 hours 
 of gameplay (for hardened gamers) . 
  
  So is Episode 1 worth your money???????? In my humble opinion HELL YES, BUY IT NOW ITS HALF LIFE 
 2 IMPROVED, THE START OF BIGGER THINGS TO COME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomlee129
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 3, 2006 12:24 pm PT
Review:  First things first, yes Half-life 2 episode 1 is SHORT for the traditional scope of an expantion 
 pack. and like me the ending is too soon and thats whats dissapointing. Half-life 2 episode 1 had 
 a lot to live up to, especially to the major sucsess of Half-life 2 and the many new releases through 
 steam-valve's software download app. And episode 1 lives up to that. it delivers more of what made 
 Half life 2 great and improved slightly with HDR lighting and the various new character models 
 and intelegence of both humans and combine alike. the AI improvements are minimal but as the AI 
 on Half-life 2 was top notch there was little to improve on. but now characters respond to specific 
 events with language which is a nice touch. and the combine have also evolved slightly. the combine 
 themselves are noticibly tougher than their counterparts in Half-life 2. also the rappelling combine 
 now make any building a potential combat zone. The combine are also now food for the regular headcrabs 
 creating what Alyx calls "ZOMBINE". they are faster than there regular headcrab counterparts and 
 are more deadly with physical attacks and have a nasty habit of running at you in numbers and pulling 
 out grenades and blowing themselves (and you) up. this is annoying but gives more panic than a 
 poison headcrab. and many a time will kill you and Alyx. the enviroments are more beautiful than 
 ever and the amazing scenery you will see will leave you in awe. the enviromental puzzles you saw 
 early on return to great appretiations to those who have played any action game with annoying turn 
 the pictures or align the lights. the enviromental puzzles and enviromental situations are simple 
 but still great moments away from the action and if your new to the series shows a chunk of the 
 amazing source engine . for $20 or 12ish Half life 2 episode 1 is a worthy expantion pack and 
 for price of admition is worth everymoment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unreal6666
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 3, 2006 11:09 am PT
Review:  I am wondering about a few following things.
  
  Why was the game so buggy?
  Everyone is complaining about graphic problems over at the valve support forums....
  
  Valve 
 told us almost over a year ago that thsi game was coming and when i played i was plagued with stuttering 
 and graphic bugs.
  
  Makes you wonder what the testing team was doing on the test phases.
  
  here is my review:
 
  
  Pros:
  
  Nice graphics as always despite the graphic slowdowns.
  Voice acting is still A+
  Length of story is not too bad...
  Gravity gun and when it is supercharged 
 is awesome best damn thing i have seen in any game ... ever!!!!
  
  Cons:
  Graphic and stuttering bugs.
  Repetitive content from half life 2 not much new as far as puzzle 
 went.
  Some unbalanced levels.
  
  I positively and never wanna see this game have to sue a flashlight to fight in it... if i wanna 
 play a game with a flashlight i will go play doom or quake and i hate those games anyway.
  Never do that again please... it iss dumb and has been done so many times ots not funny.!!!!
  
 
  This mod feels like it should have been at the end of half life 2 and not as a brand new game because 
 frankly it does not evolve the storyline that much.
  
  Not enuff new content, feels like half life 2 assets were recycled a lot in this new game.
  
 
  Not enuff dog in the story and some story holes , we see people for a few minutes then thye are 
 gone for the rest of the game and you wonder where they went? Did they blow up with the city or 
 what?
  
  Will have to probably wait forever now to find out what is going on in episode 2.
  
  I will 
 give Valve a thumbs up but i think it feels like star wars deja vu where in the new trilogy the 
 first episode was so so and the rest were much better...
  
  cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: repoman123
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 3, 2006 10:46 am PT
Review:  The game doesn't answer a lot of questions from Half Life 2. It may be possible that Valve didn't 
 make it as intertwining as we originally thought. It is a pretty decent game for twenty dollars 
 though. The difficulty isn't very hard so it shouldn't take more that long to beat the game. Like 
 every review, this game has no vehicles. It could be that they are waiting for the next two games, 
 or maybe they are just scrapping vehicles. The AI seems to be about the same as the original; the 
 only difference is that they can scale walls now which is pretty neat to watch, especially if you 
 can kill them while they are coming down. Most of the characters are back in this game which is 
 both a relief and a little odd. The beginning of the game does manage to show how this could happen 
 but the game leaves it up to the player to decide how some of the characters managed to save themselves 
 from the ending blast of the original. Valve has put its high definition lighting into the game 
 which really helps it to come to life. Alyx is with you for pretty much the whole way and is pretty 
 good at helping you adn doesn't slow you down which is a pretty neat experience. With that, the 
 graphics are a bit better than the original but not terribly different. The settings are a bit 
 familiar with a little twist. It seems that the next game puts you out of City 17. It can be a 
 bummer that your still there but I guess you have to leave the place before you can get to new 
 places. For twenty dollars (or seventeen if you pre-ordered it) this game is pretty good. A little 
 short for the money, yes twenty dollars can be a bit for some people (college) since the game isnt 
 that long; I clocked in about three and a half to four hours at the normal difficulty setting. 
 Play the game for yourself and leave a message explaining what you thought. Am I more wrong than 
 right? Thanks and happy gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrOpinionated
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 3, 2006 10:35 am PT
Review:  Half-life 2: Episode One is one of the first game franchises to be delivered in episodic form. 
 The two main advantages are more quality and more frequent releases. Instead of 6 years of developement, 
 Valve has only spent a year making Episode One. Good thing they started Episode Two at the same 
 time!
  
  Gameplay: Episode One plays noticiably different from the original Half-life 2. This is obviously 
 because Alyx Vance is with you 100% of the time. Luckily, she's not an annoyance. Alyx knows what 
 to do in combat and will not repeat any dialogue you've heard before. Too bad she becomes a Combine 
 soldier and Barney has to take her out... (just kidding)
  
  Several new gameplay elements have been added, from Combine Zombies to re-programmable rollermines 
 just to name few. This game is awesome fun from start finish.
  
  Graphics: Episode One benefits from an enhanced Source engine which features HDR lighting, more 
 detailed textures, and better animation. High Dynamic Range lighting in this game is just beautiful 
 and does not have as much as a performance impact as Lost Coast did. You'll notice that characters 
 are more detailed, in terms of textures and animation. Just watch Alyx struggle with a Zombie in 
 close quarters combat. She knows kung-fu!
  
  Sound: All major voice actors are back voicing their characters and like Half-life 2, the acting 
 is top-notch. 
  
  Conclusion: Every HL2 fan should get this game. If you're worried about length, you could hold 
 out until late 2007 when all three episodes are released together for around $50. Still, this game 
 is well worth $20! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Metr01973
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 3, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  Half Life 2: Episode 1 starts off straight after the end of HL2. You've destroyed the citadel and 
 everything looks like Alyx is going to die along with most of City 17. But wait, what's this?.......... 
 Alright, I won't spoil it for you. But sufficed to say, you and Alyx survive and team up. The citadel, 
 in it's dying throws has set off an auto destruct sequence and you and Alyx have to disable it 
 to give you and the rest of the city time to evacuate. The action starts straight away and you 
 get stuck in from the very first minute and this is just "level 1. You start with the normal gravity 
 gun and seem to move down the ladder of weapons (apart from the super gravity gun in the first 
 level) as the game goes on As the end draws near you'll have all the same weapons as you did in 
 HL2 which is a bit of a shame, I thought Valve might have thrown us a new gun along with the new 
 enemies and new locations. Valve have really out done themselves and Episode 1 actually plays and 
 feels better than HL2. The graphics are superb with HDR lighting playing a marvelous role which 
 really brings the game to life. I would say that the HDR lighting looks even better than it did 
 in the Lost Coast tech demo. The maps really use this to it's advantage, especially in some of 
 the levels where you have to lead Alyx through an underground parking lot just using your flashlight. 
 If your standing to close to a wall and turn it on, you can't see anything for a few seconds as 
 your eyes adjust to the sudden brightess. Alyx will even shield her face if you shine it in her 
 eyes and she even jokes about seeing Dr. Kleiner when you get back to see about a new battery for 
 the flashlight to stop it running out every few minutes. Overall there are 5 "levels" taking about 
 5 hours to complete, so it's quite short but this is a new era of episodic gaming and I for one 
 would rather have 5 hours of Half Life greatness every few months rather than 20 hours every few 
 years. Vavle have said that all 3 episodes will be released by the end of 2007.
  The levels range from the citadel, underground parking lots, train stations and the likes but everyone 
 is mapped to perfection with each level posing it's own puzzles and enemies. Again the levels are 
 linear but you never really notice it as there's too much going on. Take some of the puzzles for 
 example, in one level you reach a 3 storey parking lot with antlions pouring out of 3 holes on 
 the ground floor. As Alyx watches your back it's up to you to find something to plug the holes 
 with, but Alyx isn't invinsible and will get killed if you take too long. So it's puzzles on the 
 go if you like, you still have the puzzles of "old" where the action stops while you figure out 
 how to get past the electricified water but it's these new puzzles that really lend a hand in making 
 Episode 1, one the best expansion/episodes I have ever played. People are moaning that it's expensive 
 but take into account that over 3 episodes (15 hours+ of gaming) it's going to cost about 37.50 
 ($60) , about the same price for a regular full priced title, some of which only last 10 hours. 
 Oh I forgot to mention, there is a commentry track that accompanies the game which can be turned 
 on and off. I personally played the game through without it and now I'm going to play it agin with 
 it turned on. Vavle have said that there are 115 nodes which you can activate and listen to. So 
 is Half Life 2: Episode 1 worth the money? Yes I think so. It maybe short but the actual quality 
 and content is superb. If you liked any of the Half Life titles then go and buy this NOW, you won't 
 regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShotGunBunny
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 3, 2006 10:18 am PT
Review:  However, in case you actually care about the story (like me) , you'll find that this "expansion" 
 leaves a lot to be desired.
  
  First of all, it is WAY too short, I played it in about 4 hours, even while the action is great, 
 it just didn't last.
  
  The enviroment is familiar, you wake up just next to the citadel, wondering how exactly you were 
 saved. The Vortigaunts seem to have something to do with it, though. Dr. Kleiner is so kind to 
 inform you that the Citadel is going to blow and cause a huge blast that'll level the whole of 
 City 17. And he's so kind to send you and Alyx back in to stabilize the Citadel's Core.
  
  No doubt a lot of people will rejoice that you start off with the Gravity Gun at the start, but 
 with nothing else. it also turns into the "super" Gravity Gun for a while in the beginning too, 
 so you can waste groups of Combine with it.
  
  However, I found the Gravity Gun rather annoying, I spent the first part of the game going like 
 "just get me a freakin' gun". While Alyx, in her holy invinciblity, tanks the enemies in a way 
 that MMOG players could learn something from. :)
  
  The graphics are pretty much the same, the Citadel now has a cool vortex of clouds and fire above 
 it, but that's pretty much it. The game does have a few fancy effects, but nothing more then in 
 HL2.
  Of course the realistic facial expressions make Alyx a great companion, along with her idle banter 
 along the way.
  
  The amount of real puzzles is pretty low, nothing too hard to figure out, you stumble onto the 
 answers almost automatically, it seems.
  
  The game has the obligatory "Gordon with unlimited rockets vs. Gunship" and "Gordon with unlimited 
 rockets vs. Strider" 
  But they also added a "Gordon with unlimited rockets and 4 groups of civilians to evac vs. APC 
 plus tons of soldiers" :)
  
  Other then that it's pretty standard, shoot some here, solve a quick puzzle, shoot some there, 
 listen to some chatter from Alyx/Barney/Kleiner or whomever, and shoot some more. etc.
  
  The big problem with this expansion is that while it build up a great tension to find out more 
 about the story, the game end abruptly just as you get close to some more answers. Which leaves 
 you greatly dissappointed.
  
  Overal, if you play HL2 just for the action, this is a great add on to your collection, although 
 I doubt you'll enjoy it more then once.
  For those who wanted to know more about the story, get ready to be dissappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kljvoph
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 3, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  Don't think of this game as a 1st person shooter. Yes its 1st person and indeed there is shooting 
 but.... this game is so much more that that. There is a great story here and some very clever puzzles. 
 The interaction with environment and other characters is where this game truly shines. U are kind 
 of led gently by the hand through the game whilst feeling you have full freedom, a tall order for 
 any game developer, but Valve have truely pulled it off this time. The story is very central to 
 HL2 and the scriptwriters have done a very good job here. The whole game oozes high production 
 value. Looking at the game as a whole I just wish other developers would learn since this surely 
 is the future of gaming. Yes I know its kinda shortish, but I would much much rather have a shortish 
 game aof this standard than a longer at a lower standard. Don't forget also that the price is lower 
 and we will be getting new installments soon. I can't wait.
  
  James Adams 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _iMMuNiTy_
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 3, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2: Episode One is the first of three expansion packs to Half-Life 2. In this - first 
 - episode, you, as Gordon Freeman, and Alyx have to get out of City 17 before the Citadel's explosion 
 wipes it off the face of the earth.
  
  In case you haven't played Half-Life 2, it's highly recommended that you do, if you plan to play 
 Episode One. The episode's beginning is the epilogue of Half-Life 2, and you'll be left walking 
 blind in terms of story, unless you want to play this expansion pack for gameplay's sake.
  
  As soon as the game starts, you'll notice that the Source engine, the same engine that powers 
 a game from 2004, is far from outdated. Valve has added some dramatic effects to characters and 
 the environment, but they haven't overdone it, like some of the games currently on the market. 
 Apart from the aforementioned minor changes that add up to the gorgeous environment, Valve has 
 used HDR lighting to not only improve visual quality, but to mimic our eyes' reaction to light. 
 If you go through a well lit area into a dark one, everything is going to be pitch black for a 
 moment, until your 'eyes' get used to the darkness, and vice-versa.
  
  Another aspect of the game that stands out the moment the first level starts, is sound. This follow-up 
 of Half-Life 2 features top-notch voice acting, that brings characters to life and makes them sound 
 incredibly believable. On top that, the dialogue is brilliantly written. In fact, such dialogues 
 can be rarely seen in a first person shooter. Such Hollywood-quality voice acting and dialogue 
 script are mostly seen in adventure games.
  
  Another great thing about sound in this expansion pack, which deserves its own paragraph, is music. 
 Ominous and dark areas will have low-beat music, while some fast-paced beats will boost your adrenaline 
 as you battle your way through City 17.
  
  The gameplay is almost identical to Half-Life 2 - you even pick up the same weapons that we have 
 seen in Half-Life 2, bar the bugbait (as it would make this ride way too easy, after all, a good 
 part of your enemies are the antlions) . however there is a new type of enemy - the long-awaited 
 zombine - a headcrabbed combine soldier. This new type of zombie moves faster than the average 
 zombie, but significantly slower than the fast zombie. It can also take out a grenade and charge 
 at you, holding the 'nade. You can then either snatch the grenade out of its arms with the gravity 
 gun, or make the zombie drop it by dealing some damage to it.
  
  What really makes Episode One stands out, though, and what makes it fun, are scripted sequences, 
 hilarious remarks and most importantly, puzzle intermissions, which are placed in excellent spots. 
 As soon as you feel like the combat is dragging on, you're rewarded with some soothing puzzle-solving. 
 Nothing too hard, but nothing too painfully easy. 
  
  Scripted sequences are brilliantly done, but just like puzzles, they're scattered throughout the 
 game. The episode isn't just a journey through scripted scenes. Unfortunately, I can't describe 
 them or give you an example as that'll ruin the experience.
  
  Finally, the length of the game. It'll take you from 3 to seven hours to finish the game, and that 
 depends on your skill and whether you rush or take your time to listen to characters and whatnot. 
 Whilst very few questions have been answered (a couple only, actually) , the ride is really worth 
 it. Valve has once again shown what great game developers they are. They have achieved making the 
 players want to play Episode Two the moment Episode One ends. Hell, they have made me - the player 
 - want replay Episode One, and due to the commentary system - it's worth it to replay the game. 
 Get it, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmackmYackm
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 3, 2006 9:32 am PT
Review:  If running around in the pitch black trying to figure out where to go while trying to manage your 
 flashlights battery life and being chased by zombies all while trying to conserve the very limited 
 ammo is supposed to make for great gameplay, then this game has it in spades. To be fair, thats 
 only about the first half of the game. Half, you say? Yes half. You see there is all of maybe four 
 hours worth of gameplay and first the first two are spent in almost total darkness. At least for 
 the first few levels while you have no weapons at all you get the dark gravity gun to take care 
 of those pesky Combine. 
  
  I was quite disappointed, and not just because Valve charged me $20 for a game that can be ran 
 through in half an afternoon and still have time to wash the car, but also because there was little 
 substance. Most of the four hours was spent on trial and error gameplay caused mostly by the extreme 
 lack of ammo and overwhelming circumstances. Many times I found myself having to resort to throwing 
 paint cans at zombies because I ran out ammo. Alyx does her part, but she's really more of an aesthetic 
 than an asset. 
  
  Perhaps the most irritating thing is the lack of replay value. I can see no reason to play through 
 the game again. There is not enough there to miss the first time through, and to be honest, it 
 was mostly irritating anyway. 
  
  I guess some one liked it, this is just one mans review, but this gives me little reason to look 
 forward to the next installments. Half Life 2: Episode 1 is a prime example of how episodic content 
 can be a bad thing, but thats another discussion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 3, 2006 8:02 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2 : Episode One puts everything back in its right place. When Half Life 2 was released 
 some eighteen months ago, it was heralded as the best PC game ever. A lot of developers have since 
 put out games to rival this, but Episode One surges past anything that's been done effortlessly. 
 Yes, it's short - but everyone always knew it was going to be short. However it packs a mighty 
 gaming experience. 
  
  You pick up where Half-Life 2 left off, immediately after the fall of the Citadel, and without 
 going into details of the story, the purpose of Episode One is to escape from City 17. The twist 
 is that for a large majority of the game you have Alyx by your side, lending assistance and chatting 
 you up. This extended teamwork element is a welcome addition to the series, although it did have 
 a brief appearance in the previous offering. As usual, there are a number of enemies and obstacles 
 to stop your escape and it is one very impressive ride, which requires both brain and brawn.
  
  The graphics are noticeably better than Half-Life 2. The Source engine looks and works beautifully 
 and it wouldn't surprise me if there are more improvements in stall (just check out the teaser 
 at the end of the game) . It is noticeable at the beginning when you see Alyx and Dog and the subtle 
 improvements are seen throughout the game. The environments look better, the enemies and allies 
 (including the new Zombine) are well created and defined and the HDR adds that extra bit of quality 
 to it all. Even on my 'middle of the road' rig, the game ran very smoothly - stuttering only once 
 or twice. While not overly different from HL2, a lot of imagination has still gone into the environment 
 and levels, giving this a unique feel. There is a good variety of light and dark and the use of 
 water and other effects works just fine.
  
  The sound is also superb, and thankfully Valve has eased up on the music a bit. The explosions, 
 the noise of the firefights, the voice acting and the hum of the environment - it compliments the 
 game perfectly.
  
  The gameplay is classic. Valve got the balance right between puzzles and action / firefights and 
 there are some scenarios that simply blow away the competition. The puzzles are logical yet challenging 
 and the AI remains of a high standard. The Combine are a worthy foe, and the new Zombine will take 
 you by surprise with its tactics. Alyx holds her end up well (she only died once on me, and appears 
 to have an unlimited supply of ammo) and she is a very useful fall-back when you are in trouble 
 or low on health. Barney, The Professor (classic) and Eli all make and appearance, but the G-Man 
 at the start was a bit too mystical. 
  
  Episode One is as linear as any Half-Life game but it really does pack some quality action. It 
 is a super gaming experience with some excellent skirmishes. The hostage run is superb, as is the 
 skirmish in the cellar (and in the dark) , and Chapter Two is a very well devised puzzle level. 
 There are no new weapons, but that doesn't matter - the one's you have keep you pretty entertained. 
 
  
  It is over very quickly. I spent between four and five hours on the default level. I was not a 
 believer in the episode idea, but now I am. As it is so short - it's is a game I can see myself 
 going back to - to play it on 'hard' level, and to play it again about a week before Episode 2 
 comes out - just to get me in the mood. And the teaser for Episode 2 once you complete the game 
 looks awesome - and varied from Episode 1.
  
  I paid $US17.95 for this ($AUD25) , and had a great night's entertainment. I couldn't have a night 
 on the town for that price and the game is there to come back to.
  
  Half-Life 2 : Episode One lives up to the hype. A quality game playing experience. It was a risk 
 to release the game like this, but they got it right.
  
  Well done.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirpich47
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 3, 2006 7:26 am PT
Review:  Pros: HDR lightning, I gotta say, it's awesome. Another plus is that atleast you're fighting with 
 Alyx most of the time, so you don't get that "alone again" feeling. Convenient way of getting through 
 steam for lazy people like me :D
  
  Cons: Kinda Short. I was also hoping for new weapons and enemies... Well there is one new enemy 
 "Zombine" but its just one... or did i miss something?
  
  Other: Why was Gman only shown in the beginning...
  
  Conlusion: Half-Life 2: Episode One is 
 a great sequel, but it is quite short for 20 bucks.
  I though it would last me more than a day...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: victorer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 3, 2006 6:24 am PT
Review:  So here another Half-Life episode comes, but now it is a expansion of Half-Life 2, to continue 
 the story-line. A very immerssive and talanted game.
  
  The gameplay is extremely good. There are some few absurd places when it gets hard and boring, 
 but very few times. Otherwise, the gameplay is so good, that you just get hooked up and want to 
 play ever more. The story-line is just the best, but I will not tell you what happens, you will 
 have to figure it out yourself.
  
  Graphics are amazing! They are the best I have ever witnessed! The HDR gives the games a real touch. 
 You will see reflections on your guns and water. It's just amazing!
  
  Sound is very good too, the music have been updated, though there isn't much music in the game 
 which can get a little boring sometimes. The spedcial effects of the weapons and footsteps have 
 been updated. It sound 4x better than in the original Half-Life 2.
  
  The game lasts about 5-7 hours, (For me it did, since I do not have that good of a computer) After 
 the single-player, there are 2 multi-player games you can play. If you own Half-Life 2, however, 
 you will already have one of the multiplayer games. This is a great game! Best of all Half-Life 
 series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: syx
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 3, 2006 3:51 am PT
Review:  As you may know, Episode One is the first in a trilogy of episodic content to mark the conclusion 
 of Half-Life 2. Episode One tackles what happens directly after the end of Half-Life 2 in which 
 you and Alyx find yourselves in the path of the Citadel's erupting teleporter. After you escape 
 the destruction at the hands of the Vortigaunts, you find yourself awakening to Dog digging you 
 out of some rubble while Alyx seems happier than ever to see you. From this point you must enter 
 the Citadel and make your way to the core and keep it stable, then make your way out of the city, 
 all with Alyx by your side. Easier said than done, as you'll expect from the Half-Life franchise.
 
  
  The visuals are quite amazing for the franchise, and build upon the Source engine with HDR and 
 special facial lighting which even moreso bring characters like Alyx to life. Rather than making 
 the graphics technically gleaming, they're focused on providing a believable natural effect.
  
  HDR isn't the only addition brought forth by Lost Coast, the Commentary system is also in Episode 
 One, with plenty of juicy information on the development process. It's advisable to play through 
 the game atleast once before using the commentary system, as it makes you invulnerable to damage.
 
  
  As usual, there's plenty of humorous dialog and notable speeches by Dr. Kleiner. While the episode 
 is original and contains completely new maps, expect to play through the familiar settings set 
 by Half-Life 2, such as the squares of City 17 in turmoil and the infamous Citadel. There's also 
 one new enemy, a suicide bombing Zombine, or a Combine soldier that's been turned with the help 
 of a headcrab.
  
  With the introduction of Episodic content, Episode One is drastically shorter than Half-Life 2, 
 but it also in theory means more content with less waiting. If you're a seasoned shooter fan, expect 
 to play through in 2-3 hours, if you're relatively new or want to take everything in, it can last 
 4-6 hours.
  At around $20, Episode One is a steal for Half-Life fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aristonrr
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 3, 2006 2:31 am PT
Review:  The good: Beautiful use of HDR to improve HL's already great graphics. The gameplay is tight, filled 
 with action, lots of neat ideas and involving until the last second. Other games tend to stretch 
 this content out over 10 hours at least. Alyx is with you most of the way, a real asset in combat 
 and ever-ready with a funny one-liner. Again, the immersiveness in HL's world is astounding.
  
  The bad: Again, the details in the storyline are not explained or highlighted. I get the feeling 
 that Valve has no idea where to take the story, they're making it up as they go along. Playing 
 time is short, but, as stated above, chock-full of great design ideas and taught firefights. New 
 enemies, weapons, aspects of gameplay? Forget it. It's basically a short remix of everything that 
 made HL2 great, minus perhaps the use of vehicles. 
  
  The ugly: there is nothing ugly about this game. If every company made games of this quality, we 
 would spend all our free time in front of the computer. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: garethross
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 3, 2006 12:56 am PT
Review:  I cant waight to get my hands on this game mines in the post but from the video they released at 
 the last minute seems a good idea as a tester for all things to come in Half life 3 due early 2008 
 going by the end 2007 episode 3 so emagine direct X10 working with these games its going to blow 
 away the competion i say episode 2 waight for Vista to release and then we will see what theyve 
 pulled of . when i get my copy i will update this review with an ideth review well go and by i 
 know i have just a shame $20 or 20 why is that this just isnt fair please explain why this has 
 happened 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisgerk
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 4, 2006 11:52 pm PT
Review:  I just finished Half Life 2: Episode One today. Unfortunately, I also started it today. The game 
 is extremely short (an experienced FPSer should get through it in about 3-4 hours) but that shouldn't 
 detract from what should be considered a great addition to the best FPS franchise out there.
  
  Episode One begins right where Half-Life 2 ended, with the explosion at the Citadel that left 
 so many of us hanging off of the proverbial cliff. So how did Alyx and Gordon survive? What happened 
 with the G-man? Im not going to ruin it, but lets just say its pretty weird. Gordon comes to 
 with everyones favorite robot pulling wreckage off of him as Alyx looks on. This is where the 
 escape from City 17 begins.
  
  Yes, Dog and Alyx are both back. Actually, everyones back in one way or another: Alyx's father, 
 Dr. Kleiner, Barney. Youll be facing familiar enemies as well as some new ones, although theyre 
 pretty much variations on baddies that you tore up in the last iteration, like what Alyx dubs the 
 Zombine, a soldier-zombie with a penchant for rushing you with a grenade. This familiarity isnt 
 really a drawback, as Valve throws both old and new characters at you in interesting combinations 
 and some very exciting situations.
  
  One of the surprises of the game was the quality of the team play between Gordon and Alyx. While 
 weve all seen the Ill wait here to flip the switch to open the door in the other room as you 
 fight everyone sequences, I was happy to see that Alyx was no slouch with a pistol. Working as 
 a team in an FPS has never been this easy, not to mention fun! You never get stuck trying to enter 
 a doorway with Alyx in front of you; never have to look back to make sure shes still following 
 you; and never have to worry about whether or not shes going to get gunned down too easily in 
 a firefight. While not invincible, Alyx can take a lot of damage, and appears to have plenty of 
 ammo as well as good aim. There are some very cool fights where you have to work together to survive 
 some sticky situations (I wont spoil them here) , and Alyx is always a help, and never a hindrance. 
 You really do feel as though she has your back. And Valves puzzles are just as engaging as the 
 firefights, especially because Gordon is usually battling and problem-solving at the same time. 
 There are some very memorable sequences: one of my favorites involves trying to open a door with 
 a crank in a shelled-out parking garage swarming with antlions.
  
  All the fighting and puzzles notwithstanding, Episode One maintains a feeling of immersion in the 
 character and the story by continuing with Valves tradition of providing excellent in-game, first-person 
 cut-scenes. Nothing is cooler than controlling Gordons point of view during the crazy scenarios 
 the HL2 team has thought up, and Valve has also excelled at promoting the immersive nature of the 
 game with its visuals. The indoor environments are dark and moody, often you only have a single 
 light bulb or your flashlight to see; the outdoor environments are bright, but bleak, and the always-in-the-distance 
 Citadel with its swirling clouds make quite an impression. But where the visuals really shine is 
 close up: characters facial expressions are very realistic. Alyxs eyes are wide in terror when 
 shes scared, her expression is steely when she guns down zombies, and she cocks an eyebrow and 
 smirks when shes being sarcastic or making a joke. Being able to read faces really adds to the 
 humanity of the game.
  
  Speaking of jokes, theres plenty of humor to be found amongst the dialogue in the game, and its 
 always welcome. Dr. Kleiner (bald scientist) has hijacked Dr. Breens broadcast in order to help 
 citizens leave City 17, and his comments heard on resistance fighters TVs and City 17s large 
 video screens are pretty funny, as are other characters reactions to them. Alyx in particular 
 has a bunch of great lines. When a certain baddie leapt out of nowhere in one particular hallway, 
 making me jump even as I killed it, Alyx echoed my exact thoughts out loud: I hate those guys! 
 All of the dialogue (funny and serious alike) really helps foster a sense of humanity with Alyx, 
 Barney, and the other characters, and only plunges you deeper into this immersive game.
  
  The length of the game is the main problem here, but there are a few other issues I had with Episode 
 One. One is the all-too-familiar environment. I love the Citadel, the sewers, and City 17, but 
 I could have used a change of scenery. The environment isnt exactly repetitive, but you definitely 
 feel as though youve been there before. Also, it would have been fun to have a vehicle to ride. 
 But my main gripe is that very few questions are answered. Youd think that in 4-5 hours of gameplay 
 theyd advance the story more: we all knew Episode One would end on a cliffhanger, but there are 
 definitely more questions now than there were at the end of Half-Life 2. I guess as long as Valve 
 has us on the hook, they can take their time reeling us in.
  
  However, these very minor details shouldnt detract from whats a very good game that is just as 
 exciting and immersive as Half-Life 2. Valve, to their credit, does cram a lot of action and quality 
 game-play into this short, face-paced romp, and the game has more than its fair share of memorable 
 sequences and battles. Episode One had the difficult task of standing next to one of the best FPS 
 games of all time, and when all is said and done, it deserves its spot. Just take your time and 
 enjoy it, because in a couple hours, you'll be counting the days until Episode 2, just like the 
 rest of us.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marcinkonys
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 12, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  After around one and a half years Valve has finally released the first Half Life Episodic Content, 
 or Half Life 2  Episode One. The games awesome  even better than the original Half Life 2, in 
 my opinion. It starts where Half Life 2 ended  at the Citadel. If youve played Half Life 2, youll 
 know that there was a big explosion in it, while you were trying to stop Dr. Wallace Breen, the 
 ruler of Earth, from escaping. Nothing to worry about, Alyx and Gordon survived. However, the 
 Core of the Citadel is about to explode. Youll have to get back to the Citadel, and stop the explosion, 
 which can destroy the whole City 17.
  
  Every major character seen in Half Life 2 has survived the teleport explosion  youll see Dr. 
 Isaac Kleiner, Barney, Eli, Mossman, and more. Also, youll have an A. I. partner  Alyx will stay 
 with you throughout the whole game! Shes pretty intelligent, and will help you a lot. At some 
 parts, youll even have to work together to fight against the enemies. Which there are many  all 
 types of Headcrabs, the Combine soldiers, Elite Combine, Antlions, etc. There are two new types 
 of enemies in EP1, as well  Stalkers, and Zombines. Stalkers appear in the Citadel only  these 
 creepy creatures are resistants of City 17. You wont be able to take them out using bullets. The 
 Gravity gun is a better option; Now, guess who Zombines are. Put together two words  Zombie and 
 Combine. Thats right  a Zombine is a combine soldier controlled by a headcrab. These are quite 
 fast, but easy to deal with.
  
  The games a good mix between action and puzzles. There are many places where you need to use your 
 mind to get through, just like in Half Life 2. Carefully look at your surroundings, use the physics. 
 Again, the Gravity Gun is your best friend. Use it, for example, to stack a couple of boxes one 
 on each other and get onto high places, or smash a car on a pile of sand to stop Antlions from 
 spawning. These are only two out of many challenges youll have to face. They dont make the game 
 look like a typical Run n Gun shooter. However, there are many cool weapons in the game. No 
 new guns, but you can now use flares to light your way in dark places. They're not in your inventory, 
 though - you've to pick them up and throw 'em or walk with them. The crosshair now indicates your 
 health and ammo status. If the left side's going red, search for medkits, if the right one's - 
 search for ammo.
  
  Episode One now has HDR (High-Dynamic Range) lighting, as it was introduced in Lost Coast. Its 
 not such a big feature, but it adds much realism to the game. Note that you much have a pretty 
 good card to see the beauty. EP1, of course, uses the Source engine, like HL2. Although the engine 
 is more than a year old, the game still has superb graphics. The sound is awesome, too. Half Life 
 2 had the best soundtrack, in my opinion. Now, its number two. EP1s soundtrack is amazing, and 
 really gets you into the game.
  
  There are lots of firefights in the game. They make EP1 very intense. Going with Alyx through a 
 long dark place with zombies around, and seeing that your flashlight is going out of power Oh 
 my, this has to be one of the best gaming experiences Ive had so far. Although the games pretty 
 short (five chapters, you can pass the game in less than 10 hours easily) , its really worth the 
 $20. Remember that the second episode is coming in the fourth quarter of 2006! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scvido
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 3, 2006 12:00 am PT
Review:  WOW ... Valve did pull off this one honestly.
  
  i played SIN - EP1 and it's a piece of garbage
  and with my Ath64 - nvidia 7800gtx - 2gb ram 
 it's
  running like crap.
  
  when i got HL2 - EP1 and fired it up with every option
  available to the MAX, its soooooooooo smooth.
  the graphics are similar if not better than original 
 HL2.
  
  first impression is very positive, in fact i will be getting
  every single HL2 Episode in the future.
  i cannot say so about SIN Episodes, i wont buy any
 
  or even play it for free. lol
  
  gameplay is what you expect from G-MAN,
  bombastic action with great cinematics.
  
  there's nothing to say really other than this time
 
  you kinda get more personal with ALYX and
  the game is awesome.
  worth every $
  
  GET IT!!!!! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Simins4
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 7, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  When I first herd theat Valve was going to do an episodic serese of expanchins on to the half-life 
 2 story in DIRECT oposhin to starting half-life 3, i was PISSED, how could they do this to the 
 fans!!!, i was angrry and upset with the valve divelipers even when i got the game (I got the first 
 copy in the store, so i did enjoy that) .... but the second that i startid up the game, i reilised 
 that Valve had it's resons... Episode 1 is probibly the best expanchn pack that i have bought ever. 
 Half-life 2 is probibly my most favorit game ever, and this expanchin pack makes HL2 look better 
 than ever (Even for a 2 year old engen) , They revamped the game and made it better than ever befor. 
 they have zombese, they have combine, thay even have zombine (Wich in real life, is a reserectid 
 tractor) I cant actuly say vary much... so i will just say that if you own half-life 2, you should 
 have bout this game on day 1, its short, but properly priced, and i cant weight untill Episode 
 2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johiden
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 2, 2006 10:57 pm PT
Review:  I thought this was excellent. Even though it was SHORT. I didn't mind, I found it really compelling 
 and well done. The use of puzzled kept me thinking while at some points irritated the heck out 
 of me. 
  
  Having Alex as an ally to help fight off enemies is rather enjoyable. She will Allow cover in certain 
 point, as well as spurt out funny remarks. 
  
  The levels, well, that look utterly fantastic especially with the new lighting tech thing. My computer 
 isn't really good, however, I still managed to play it without problems and it still looked pretty 
 excellent. 
  
  All in all, this game is quite wonderful and you will learn more about the story in Half Life 2. 
 Personally, I believe that these episodes will be a good transition between HL2 and HL3 (if there 
 is one) . This game does cut it off a bit short, but it is still worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Edward1211
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 2, 2006 10:30 pm PT
Review:  Episode 1 is a very good expansion to half life 2 but with some flaudes. The first time I say the 
 trailer i was sooo happy to see that the game didn't end with and explosion, but with a nice happy 
 vordigon help. 
  
  Graphics- The graphics are what makes this game half life 2. With out them I would'nt know what 
 this game is. The graphics have been updated alittle bit but not that much. I love the new lighting 
 effects. The lighting makes a big role in this game because there are some parts where you have 
 to keep the light on so you and alex can see the zombies.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay in this game is what should have been in half life 2. The gameplay is alot 
 more fast paced and they have tougher puzzles to get by. The gravity gun is still hear but you 
 get the crow bar alittle later in the game which is a dissapointment. You get the gravity gun right 
 in the beginning this time and get it upgraded so you can pick up people and throw them at you 
 other enemy's! You also get the old guns which are very helpfull because all the weapons here are 
 put to good use in every situation. The gameplay is alot more fun because there are alot more people 
 on screen and cooler ways to kill them with the gravity gun. There is also 1 new enemy which runs 
 at you super fast and holds a grenade that is live and wants to come next to you and blow himself 
 up with you. Kinda like a terrorist. 
  
  Sound- The sound is one of the best in the half life 2 series. The music is origional and the sound 
 of the guns are incredible. The voice of alex is the same one as half life 2 and so is barney and 
 ever one else. There is also some new dialoge in the citizens like when one of them says I always 
 wanted to be a lawyer. 
  
  Value- The game is extremely short! I mean even shorter than god of war. When you think theres 
 going to be more the credits come and you are not sure again what is going to happen. You don't 
 get to see that g-man because in the beginning you see that the vortagons are surrounding him which 
 makes no sence.
  
  Overall HL2 Episode 1 is short but sweet. The gameplay is fantastic and the sound is Phenomenal. 
 Even though i already beat it, i'm still going to play it again and again since its sooooooo good! 
 :D
  
  Gameplay- A+
  Graphics- A-
  Sound- B+
  Value- C-
  Tilt- A- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jgodden
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 2, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  I can not believe how short the game was. I mean I know it was only $19.99 but I expected more 
 play time. It took me less that 5 hours I think. I was not even expecting it to end when it did. 
 I figured I still had a long way to go. 
  
  It was fun though. There were no real bugs but duing one scene when I had to lead people to rescue 
 the man got stuck in place and I had to restart the level. But I only lost a few minutes there. 
 
  
  I live that Alex came with you. She is actually useful in fights and even though she can die its 
 rare and you dont need to babysit her or always worry about her. 
  
  Is it worth the money. I am torn. A two hour movie and popcorn is the same cost so maybe 5 hours 
 is worth it?? Lets hope the next ones much much longer and has new weapons and enemies to fight. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sCaReCr0W
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 3, 2006 8:45 pm PT
Review:  Episode One is a continuation of the Half-Life 2 story and picks up just where you were so helplessly 
 cut-off at the end of Half-Life 2. Stepping back into the boots of Gordon Freeman has never felt 
 as good as it does in Episode One. Unlike in Half-Life 2, youre paired with Alyx for pretty much 
 the entire length of Episode One, and this keeps things quite a bit more interesting throughout. 
 Valve has successfully improved Alyxs a. i. and also made her a companion that you actually want 
 to have by your side. As this is only the first of three episodes to continue the Half-Life 2 storyline, 
 youll find yourself watching the credits before you know what hit you. But fortunately, the 5 
 chapters that make up Episode One consist of the best Half-Life gameplay you can find.
  
  The gameplay hasnt actually been changed, but it has been polished, and superbly refined. This 
 is the best of Half-Life 2. And considering how magnificent that game already was, if youre a 
 fan of the series then must play Episode One. Youve got gravity-gun puzzles, zombies to fend off 
 in dark corridors, and Combine soldiers to shoot. The only part of Half-Life 2 that isnt represented 
 in Episode One is any sort of vehicular segment. There arent any new weapons, and only one new 
 type of enemy. And youll largely be traversing the same type of areas, considering youre still 
 in the confines of City 17. And yet, somehow, developer Valve has made nearly the entire trip seem 
 fresh. The enemies act differently in many cases, and thus, youre forced to play differently. 
 
  
  But above all, the team dynamic with Alyx is what makes Episode One so good, and so seemingly new. 
 Half-Life has usually been pretty lone-wolf oriented, with the exception of several particular 
 situations in Half-Life 2. But you never felt like part of a team during those sequences. With 
 Alyx, in Episode One, shes not only a likable character now, but a useful partner that youll 
 come to rely on. Alyxs artificial intelligence has been ramped up considerably, and throughout 
 the entire length of the Episode youll witness just how deadly Alyx can be, driven home by a host 
 of new animations and abilities she can perform. But from a different perspective, Alyx has also 
 grown as a character and you really become attached to her by the end of the Episode, more so than 
 was possible in Half-Life 2. 
  
  Possibly the best part of Episode One is the intelligent and witty dialog throughout, mostly spoken 
 by Alyx. Youll often find yourself smiling or even laughing. This simply drives home the quality 
 of the production considering most first-person-shooters dont spend much time on these details 
 at all. The voice-work, with the returning voice cast, is incredible, and the Half-Life sound effects 
 are as good as always. The only slight disappointment is how the music is implemented. The music 
 always suits the situation, and the compositions themselves, although never memorable, up your 
 adrenalinebut the timing can often be off, with the music starting at the wrong time or lasting 
 a bit long. However, that largely depends on the player. 
  
  The Source Engine, which had some age on it even when Half-Life 2 was first released, is still 
 fantastic and in Episode One, with full HDR lighting effects throughout the entire game world and 
 on every character, the Source engine once again outshines many of the more technologically advanced 
 graphical engines out there. This game is polished in every aspect, and thats no different with 
 the visuals. Even though youre traversing through similar environments, everything looks better, 
 and the game has been optimized for better performance to boot! The High Dynamic Range lighting 
 gives the game a new coat of paint, but once again the real reason why the Half-Life 2 game world 
 is so eye-catching is because of its amazing art-direction that never ceases to amaze. 
  
  Episode One is a short ride at about 4 hours the first time through. And when you go back through 
 with the interesting developer commentary tracks enabled youll probably breeze through in just 
 2 hours. But thats kind of the point, since Valve will be releasing its next episode in a matter 
 of months. Theres no new multiplayer to speak of with Episode One, and many will end up complaining 
 that they spent $20 (or a little less) on a game that can be finished in one sitting. But Episode 
 One is the best Half-Life gameplay to date. Everything here has been improved with a fresh coat 
 of paint, and some new inspirationeven though things at first appear so similar. The team-dynamic 
 with Alyx, the sharply written dialog, the more intense and challenging combat and puzzle situations, 
 and overall the unprecedented level of polish make Episode One worth every hard-earned penny. And 
 even though youll be watching the credits a lot sooner than youd like, whats here is a blast 
 from start to finish. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aquabelic
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I do agree. It is quite disappointing that it was a bit short. But hey! It is an episodic 
 expansion pack and you pay $19 to continue the story without waiting for a whole new game (HL3) .
 
  The story had a really nice flow and the enemy AI was quite impressive.
  And the HDR is a definite welcome to the HL Saga, because Source engine has certainly became quite 
 outdated compared to the many news games currently on the market (Far Cry, Fear, etc.) so the HDR 
 lighting defiantly gives a fresh of breath air to Half-Life.
  
  Good Work Valve! The wait was worth it, but I think it was bit to long for a expansion pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theRunninGamer
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 2, 2006 7:23 pm PT
Review:  In Half-Life 2: Episode One, you once again guide the speechless Dr. Gordon Freeman through the 
 Combine Citadel and the streets of City 17, this time accompanied by the lovely but not quite dainty 
 Alyx Vance .
  
  The first thing you're sure to notice when you start the game for the first time (if you have a 
 newer computer, that is) is the addition of high dynamic range lighting, commonly referred to as 
 HDR. This graphical effect adds an enormous amount of style to the already spectacular-looking 
 Source engine. The eerie lighting in both the Citadel and the darkened residential buildings of 
 City 17 looks better and more realistic than ever due to the complete integration of HDR in Episode 
 One.
  
  In the previous two Half-Life games, not only did our hero refrain from verbalization (he doesn't 
 even groan when he gets shot) but also companionship. This changes in Episode One, now that Alyx 
 accompanies you throughout the game. There will be points at which Gordon must fight and work on 
 his own, but these sequences make up only a minority of the game. Disappointingly, however, Alyx 
 has only minimal influence in any of the "boss fights," mainly keeping a few antlions off you now 
 and then. When it comes down to it, though, Alyx leaves the heavy lifting to the silent partner.
 
  
  Tactically, it's a little too easy to abuse the leniency the game gives to Alyx with regard to 
 her health points and ammunition count. On the normal difficulty setting (not the default setting 
 of "easy") I never wittnessed her die or run out of ammunition. Often times, this leads to sitting 
 back and watching Alyx pump round after round from her shotgun into the oncoming zombie hordes. 
 Out of respect, you'll always end up helping her with the combine zombie that's mauling her, even 
 though you could just as well wait for him to pull his grenade and obliterate half of the onscreen 
 enemies, leaving Miss Vance seemingly unharmed and only momentarily phased.
  
  Regardless of the flaws it has, Episode One delivers what it really needs to, and with flying colors. 
 Honestly, the only reason you should spend your money on this game is for the story. Despite the 
 amazing visuals throughout the short campaign, the focus and purpose of the episode is the development 
 of the Half-Life plot. For $20, one might expect a little more story than Valve delivers in Episode 
 One, especially since the game engine has had only a minor aesthetic retouch since it's predecessor.
 
  
  Overall, Half-Life 2: Episode One is an enjoyable and familiar romp through Half-Life lore, and 
 if you're interested in a good science fiction story or a great-looking, albeit short single player 
 puzzle-solving shooter, Episode One is definitely worth a look. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcadius
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 2, 2006 6:33 pm PT
Review:  Its a great expansion, though it sometimes pains me to agree with gamespot, "it's over before you 
 know it..." 
  
  It starts where you left off, giving you a nice sequel feeling, picking up the action as well, 
 and then suddenly while you're drawn into the action it ends. Sadly because more of Half Life 2 
 is what we fans were dying to get, although as little as it was provided, proved to be enough, 
 for the moment that is.
  
  I downloaded it from steam with no problems (I couldn't wait for the next day to pick it up) , decyphered 
 it, and played it flawlessly (although some unusually long loading times were experienced) .
  
  Having the newer graphic cards allows you to get a different feeling to half life, with the 
 introduction of HDR, which by itself should be enough for serious fans to get the game, like myself.
 
  
  The game engine seems improved, considering the release date for Half Life 2. 
  
  So in the end, if you liked Half Life 2, you'll "briefly" enjoy it's "sequel". 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrclem
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Playing Half-Life 2 was like taking part in your favorite science-fiction movie. The slow and deliberate 
 pacing of the game consisted of intense gun battles against the Combine, punctuated by frantic 
 struggles to survive onslaughts of headcrab zombies. Added to the mix were eerily serene moments 
 of calm where the silence seemed to press in on top of you, threatening at any second another brush 
 with death.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode One is Half-Life 2, distilled. That is, it is a much more refined and intense 
 experience. If the movie analogy works for HL2, then Episode One could best be compared to a ride 
 on a roller-coaster: the entire time spent playing is exhilarating, barely-controlled chaos.
  
  Everyone who played HL2 has memories of the game's epic moments. The confusion of the G-Man's 
 opening monologue, the unarmed flight from the Combine over the rooftops of City 17, the first 
 moment that a fellow resistance fighter shouted "Strider!" and the bone-chilling roar as the titanic 
 creature crashed into view. Episode One is nearly entirely composed of those moments.
  
  The gameplay is heavily action-oriented, with some fairly challenging puzzles thrown in for good 
 measure. The HL2 arsenal is available in Episode One entirely unchanged. The only notable addition, 
 is Alyx's side-arm that she uses through most of the game, and unfortunately can't be used by the 
 player. What this says about the HL2 weaponry is that it was and still is exceptionally well-rounded, 
 and the addition of another gun might have seemed unnecessary.
  
  As for enemies, the most noticeable inclusion to Episode One are the Zombines, or Combine forces 
 turned into zombies by the headcrab's corrupting embrace. Not only are the Zombines tougher than 
 their less armored counterparts, but they also have the most annoying habit of charging madly forward 
 with an armed grenade clutched in their hands. Fortunately, it's nothing the gravity gun can't 
 solve.
  
  Episode One's graphics are more or less the same as HL2. That is to say, some of the best to be 
 found in a video game. The facial animation system seems to have been refined, as well some of 
 the shaders and textures in the game. The carapaces of the ant-lions and the headcrab's hides now 
 have a very alluring shine to them, which should be admired only when the beasts have stopped moving... 
 The environments of Episode One are just as gorgeous as those of HL2, if somewhat more enclosed-feeling 
 due to the linearity of the level design.
  
  The voice acting of Episode One is also superb. Alyx receives most of the dialogue in the game, 
 resulting in a surprising amount of development of her character. Despite the fact that in HL2 
 Alyx was more of a bystander to the main story, in Episode One she is at Gordon's side constantly, 
 providing some genuinely funny comments that ease the tension of the game. The music in Episode 
 One is subtle, as it was in HL2, but seems even less a part of the entire experience, with fewer 
 crescendos noting the major moments of the story.
  
  The debate surrounding the value of episodic games in general (and Episode One in particular) is 
 fairly heated. Some say that it cannot be taken into account in the same perspective that it is 
 applied to "full-length" games. But unfortunately, it has to be done.
  
  Before any episodic games had been released, I had concerns about the amount of gameplay that the 
 player could hope to get out of an episodic title. But I was pleased to say that SiN Episodes: 
 Emergence changed my mind. For the $18 price, I was able to enjoy the game for around 7 hours on 
 my first time through. Half-Life 2: Episode One on the other hand, I finished in less than five 
 hours.
  
  The length of the game is largely due to the very fast pacing. Intensity is something that is hard 
 to sustain, particularly in a game, without the experience becoming mundane or overly difficult. 
 And that fact is really what makes Half-Life 2: Episode One all the more impressive. Valve has 
 attempted to provide a driven, cinematic story while still offering a fun gameplay experience. 
 And in both of those attempts, they have succeeded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthbob100
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2: Episode One starts you off directly after the ending to Half Life 2. You learn how 
 you escape the explosion of the Combine Citadel and how Alyx and you are rescued. As you are pried 
 from the rubble (after being teleported) you get to see the amazing HDR lighting take place on 
 Alyx's mechanical friend, DG. The blissfully wonderful lighting is one of the key elements that 
 make this game look fantastic. However, you can really only see this wonderous effect if you have 
 the PC and hardware to run it on. Although the graphical requirements are a bit steep for you to 
 enjoy 'all' the eye-candy', you can still see the creative and unique facial expressions on various 
 characters that Valve has created for us. It's the characters in this expansion that drive the 
 immersive, yet saddening, short game. 
  
  Gameplay is still tried-and-true Half Life 2 and nothing much changes except for the dynamic duo 
 system where you have a buddy with you at all times covering your back; it's a system that works 
 and would've been nice to see in Half Life 2. Physics also play a large role in this expansion, 
 basically in the sense that the already heavily modified Source Engine has been slightly tweaked 
 to make up for new additions in physics seen here. Such is the case when you must stack wood to 
 make a walkable plank, or to weigh down a broken pipe so you can cross; it's context like this 
 that can keep a game fresh and memorable.
  
  Sound also plays a big role in here too; you can hear Combine troops telling eachother: "Man down, 
 man down!", "Grenade! Displace!", things like that can add a different realm into your gameplay 
 experience that you see only in games like F. E. A. R., Call of Duty, and Rainbow Six. The musical 
 score is also something to behold, but it also get's repetitive in its same sing-song notes and 
 instruments.
  
  A few other things that can seperate this game from the rest of the pack is the induction of the 
 commentary system, with this the gamer can peer into the eyes of the developer and listen/watch 
 on what went on to make a particular scene, model a specific object or just plain ol' ramble about 
 what Randy drank while giving specular mesh highlights on the Combine biped. While it certainly 
 is inventive, the specific talks can become boring and unthoughtful to the regular, un-tech-savvy 
 user; the layman.
  
  All in all, the game can be tedious at times with it's delectable puzzles, it can also be considered 
 to be one of the best, short expansion packs to date on any console, PC or otherwise.
  
  If there is one respite it's that there will be 2 more sequels added into the mix. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vihanva
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 2, 2006 5:40 pm PT
Review:  When playing Half Life 2 I felt lost and alone. For me the funniest parts was going trough the 
 prison whit the ant-lions, and the city 17 ending, when everyone gathered around in the "final" 
 battle.
  
  So when I started up Episode 1, 3 minutes after the realise, I was actually happy when seeing Alyx. 
 Happy and relived. 
  
  I won't type anymore of my experiences and judgements of the story of episode one, except stating 
 that this is one of the best, if not the best, part of half life 2 so far. 
  
  I downloaded episode one trough steam. This went smoothly, and I experienced no troubles. Payment 
 happened via mastercard. I payed 17 USD. The game is worth it, but it's not worth much more when 
 thinking of the time spent playing. One will use between 4 to 6 hours playing trough, depending 
 on how reckless one play. 
  
  The graphics is splendid. I had some troubles with the surroundings lighting up like everything 
 was chromed metal when using the flashlight. 
  
  Audio is balanced, but it is a bit hard hearing dialogue when using surround. I experienced some 
 scraping noises in the first part of the game, but after a restart of the game this was gone. 
 
  
  My computer is a standard 3000MHz, 2 Gbit RAM, Geforce 7800GT 256 mb. I have experienced little 
 troubles whit this computer, except when playing Fear. In episode one I had everything to the top; 
 AV, details, everything. In some parts rich with action and graphic details, the computer had some 
 troubles. But this was not often, perhaps 3-4 times during the playing time. 
  
  Episode One is an amazing game-experience. But I think this game is mainly for those who has played 
 trough Half Life 2, and hopefully the original Half Life with all of it's 'episodes'. 
  
  - Be safe -
  
  Vihanva 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BerserkFury1989
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 2, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Personally, I absolutely loved the continuation of Half Life 2. It was great, and almost flawless, 
 if only it wasn't for the loading times... It was great to get a hold of the HL2 weapons again, 
 and own some Zombines. It was also awesome to play with the Mega Gravity gun, too bad it stole 
 all my armor when it powered down. The game introduced a very interesting way to stop those endless 
 bugs, simply dump a car on top of their hole. Sometimes I had to wait a while before killing the 
 combine, becuase they were trying to kill the zombies and the bugs as well. The two other downs 
 was that I was only about to get about 4-5 hours gameplay, and the teaser of Episode 2. I will 
 be praying that they don't make us wait a year for it again, hopefully it will be released this 
 year, and Episode 3 soon after it. I wonder if all the Episodes put together will be larger than 
 HL2, because they will cost a total of $10 more.
  
  ***Spoiler Warning***
  
  They better not make Alex die as it looked like in the teaser!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kazona
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 3, 2006 4:51 am PT
Review:  The story of Half-Life 2 literally ended with a bang, and fans had no choice but to speculate about 
 what happened to Alyx and Gordon. Fortunately, we did not have to wait for very long this time 
 around, as Half-Life 2: Episode One is the first in a trilogy of episodes that continues the story 
 of its predecessor, and follows Gordon and Alyx as they attempt to escape from the ever-further 
 crumbling City 17. While it isnt necessary to know the story of Half-Life 2, it will definitely 
 add to the experience of playing Episode One.
  
  The most notable thing about this follow-up is that almost the entire game is played with Alyx 
 by your side. There are some parts during the game where you will have to go at it solo, but it 
 often doesnt take long for you to meet up with her again, after which you continue on your journey 
 to escape from the city again, together. Those dreading the thought of having Alyx tag along almost 
 the entire time, for fear of having to baby sit her can rest assured, as she is more than capable 
 of taking care of herself. In fact, youll soon find out that her help is more than just a welcome 
 addition, as there are plenty of obstacles along your way, which you probably would not have been 
 able to get past without her aid. And despite the one-sided conversations (Gordon, as usual, still 
 doesnt utter a single word) , the interaction between yourself and Alyx is actually very satisfying, 
 and youll soon start to regret not having her by your side more during the course of Half-Life 
 2.
  
  Of course, Alyx isnt the only familiar face youll see along the way, as youll come across most 
 of the other major characters from Half-Life 2. For the most part, however, meeting up with those 
 old friends consists of nothing more than a short conversation, in which Alyx actually takes more 
 of a center stage role than Gordon. The only other familiar person youll actually interact with 
 is everyones old friend Barney. And while all these familiar things might give a feeling of nostalgia 
 with fans of Half-Life 2, there are just a tad too many familiar things in the game.
  
  Everything from your weapons to the enemies, and the environments in which you fight them, remain 
 pretty much the same as in the previous game. There are some tougher new foes that you will be 
 fighting along the way but most of the enemies are the same as in Half-Life 2. In all fairness, 
 however, it is nothing but logical to be fighting the same breed of enemies. The same goes for 
 the environments because you are, after all, still in City 17, and it would be rather hard to explain 
 if suddenly the entire city had gotten a major makeover and a whole host of new enemies had appeared 
 out of nowhere.
  
  Speaking of familiar, the good old puzzle solving that the Half-Life series have become known for 
 make a return in Episode One, and are better than ever before. While the puzzles still arent complex 
 enough to rival the hardcore adventure games, they are definitely quite a bit more challenging 
 than in Half-Life 2, and the fact that you now have a companion with you is factored into the puzzles, 
 as youll often need Alyx help in keeping enemies of your back while you work on solving a puzzle.
 
  
  Moreover, for those who were disappointed with the lacking use of the gravity gun in Half-Life 
 2, youll be happy to know that the gun will play a more prominent role in the game, especially 
 in solving the environmental puzzles. However, those of you hoping to be tossing people around 
 with the gravity gun as you did near the end of Half-Life 2, will be disappointed. The developers 
 do tease you with the ability, though, but the fun is over quickly.
  
  The puzzles arent the only things that have been improved. Visually there have been quite a bit 
 of improvements as well. While most of these improvements are subtle in nature, they do add to 
 the visual experience, and the game looks quite a bit slicker than its predecessor.
  
  All-in-all, Episode One is definitely a worthy successor to Half-Life 2, and in some areas it is 
 even better. The only problem is that it is all over before even realize it. There also isnt much 
 in terms of new content, but that really isnt much of a complaint as what the game does do, it 
 does very well. Hopefully the next two episodes will be just as strong as this one, and well get 
 to see the dynamic between Gordon and Alyx grow even further. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chinbobbabobot
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 9, 2006 4:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely worth the twenty dollars you pay for it- and even more of a bargain if 
 you preloaded it. It truly shows the potential of episodic content and what developers can do when 
 they do it right. 
  
  To fill you in just a little bit... The game picks up immediately after Half-Life 2 ends. Gman imprisoned 
 Gordon Freeman in a slow time warp, but almost immediately after he did, Vortigaunts intervened 
 to save both him and Alyx from Gman and the destruction of the Citadel. So, Freeman is, well, a 
 Free man now. For a while, at any rate. 
  
  Valve, in my opinion, has done an excellent job in executing this project. Episodic content is 
 definitely something that has a potential to be a disaster if not done right- too little content, 
 not satisfying enough, whatever reason can ruin it. But despite that, Valve has not only made an 
 exemplary adventure, and while the game is only about 6 hours long (4 if you're good or play it 
 twice) , they pack it with enough content to make it feel much more worthwhile. Comparisons to a 
 small pinata jammed with candy seem realistic. The audio commentary mode just makes it even sweeter. 
 Play it through once with commentary off, then turn it on for a second play-through. Awesome stuff.
 
  
  The gameplay is the same as before, but they've added new mechanics that really add a fresh feeling 
 to the game. Example: In the pitch darkness of a collapsed highway, you must ration your ammo out- 
 but with your flashlight, you can act as a spotter for Alyx, who will shoot at whatever enemy you 
 point the light at. And when you capture Rollermines in your Gravity Gun, she can reprogram them 
 to be an ally.
  
  Speaking of Alyx, she's by your side virtually every second. Sometimes she isn't, but for the most 
 part she takes and shoots bullets alongside you. It is a little weird that she's incredibly hard 
 to kill, but it was a good design decision by Valve because otherwise restarting a level because 
 she died and you didn't would be frustrating to no end. Fun wins over plausibility any time. 
 
  And since her only weapon is usually a pistol (she takes a shotgun in a hospital) it's not like 
 you'll be sweeping the floor with Combine- trust me, it's not pathetically easy.
  Having her by your side also fleshes her out as a character. It really does an effective job of 
 making you attached to her after a long time, and she really does seem human, instead of just another 
 dumb NPC when she goes through traumatic events like a certain train scene I won't tell you about.
 
  
  Using episodic content means Valve doesn't fall into the hole that John Romero and Ion Storm did 
 when they made Daikatana- the problem there was that they kept redoing the game with different 
 engines as better graphical techniques were made. Valve can update the Source Engine every so often, 
 and thus update it more frequently, as they go along. Hence the graphics are definitely different, 
 and better, than the original game. HDR really makes the Citadel look beautiful in its death throes. 
 And the effects that they used for the teleporting Vortigaunts really looks spectacular.
  
  The music is beautiful as well. Love the piano music. Each soundtrack helps bring back the feelings 
 I felt when I first played HL2. It evicts the sense that you're running through a city that it 
 caught up in the wrath of an alien force ready to burn whatever ground they can't hold on to. 
 
  If anything, the music really is better than the original game, and I loved the music from that.
 
  
  As a bonus to us fans, they even include a trailer of Episode Two, but that's already been thrown 
 on the Internet by someone who ripped the files from it. Valve loves its customers, I guess. Here's 
 hoping the next episode comes sooner rather than later.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kramermyth88
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2006 3:27 pm PT
Review:  The game overall is half life 2 on Steroids. The graphics are well redone with many better textures 
 and amazing light reflections. But lets cut to the chase the game play. Phew its extrelemy fast 
 paced but its not out of hand which make playing the game so amazing and extremly fun. The level 
 design is extrodenary with the action and more of the puzzles thats fun solving with the pyhsics 
 gun. In conclusion anyone who wants more out of half life 2 will not be let down by this game except 
 when it ends to early and the only thing they give you is half life death match 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersohail
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  This half life 2 expansion is more than we wanted it has got fantasy! well more than we expected! 
 This game rocks no matter what but half life 2 will never let us all down and if they do it would 
 be sad... the pressure is on the games is most wanted from all players in the whole world. Maybe 
 the it doesn't add too much stuff in the game but we all apreciate that half life 2: Episode one 
 did success! The game usual gets so fun often you play this wonderful add-on. Since it is on the 
 road there are lods of new things you would find in the game like new weapons perhaps, we would 
 want more guns to kill the enemy and blow them to pieces!!! We all half life 2 fans would love 
 this game and for a fact please turn that rating to a 9 gamespot please it would help us a lot 
 :D. 
  
  Maybe some stuff are pretty bad which let us down a bit damn hard, the levels are short and there 
 isn't much to see about the multiplayer content only that we wish that there were more! Yes this 
 isn't just the game that is sometimes bad, maybe every game in the world has at least one bad thing... 
 anyways the game was successful and i hope everyone who gets this game enjoys this game :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordgames123
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 12:55 pm PT
Review:  I can't realy add much to previous reviews - but ignore all arguements that its too short - its 
 cheap for a reason! And not long till the next episode - I can't wait.
  
  Also the commentory, which Gamespot says sounds 'rehearsed' (although it obviously is this is no 
 bad thing as it isn't meant to be a dvd style commentory) is very good and a welcome features. 
 
  
  Very occasionaly I found the game dragged on in a few areas (especialy the elevator sequence you 
 encounter fairly early on in the game) but this is realy just nitpicking at a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrStrangelove29
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 2, 2006 12:52 pm PT
Review:  I purchased the game yesterday after waiting such a godly amount of time waiting for this expansion 
 pack to finally come out. I installed it and was amazed. The graphics/animations in the game were 
 done very well, the sound was just as amazing.. very pleasing to hear those headcrab zombies scream 
 when you burn them. The game starts off exactly right after where the last one ended... but now 
 with a twist... the G-man no longer has control of you... and seems pretty annoyed that he's no longer 
 pulling the strings. So now back to more of the game... after the begining scene you are found near 
 the Citadel, and the reactor in it is going critical. So as you can now tell were this is going.... you 
 have to do something to either stop the reactor from going critical or slow it down someway. Ive 
 been about halfway thru the game so far and I am very impressed. I just saw video today of HL2 
 episode two on YouTube, pretty interesting stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmacalpine
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2006 12:28 pm PT
Review:  So, who else has been looking forward to June 1st like I have? 
  
  Hl2: Ep1 is a small masterpiece, created by a company who have finely honed their craft to create 
 a worthy (albeit short) follow-up to Half-Life 2.
  
  The first half hour really gets you back into the mood for some Half-Life action; a simply awesome 
 introduction with Alyx and her robot friend, their human and often humorous interactions give the 
 impression that Valve are still breaking new ground.
  
  While the majority of the first half is basically puzzle solving, I never found myself overly frustrated 
 in finding the solutions  if you look carefully and spend some time exploring, they actually 
 become quite easy. The sense of accomplishment once youve completed these areas is also 
 quite gratifying although your may find yourself itching to get your hands on a proper gun which 
 doesnt just lift things (thankfully you do although the weapons are exactly the same as 
 HL2) ,
  
  If youve played Half-Life 2, there isnt much here you havent seen already, 
 although its done in such a great way that at times, you forget youre playing Half-Life. 
 There are areas certain areas however, that I think that Valve may have lacked some imagination 
 in how to progress the story along; for example, the amount of times a power box fails in the storyline 
 gets slightly ridiculous, but having Alyx there to share her annoyance with you actually helps. 
 As a computer controlled character, Alyx is as believable and human as in any single-player story 
 Ive seen so far.
  
  As an episode its obviously going to be shorter than a full game but in my 
 opinion, for 5 hours of exciting action at cheaper price, its absolutely worth it.
  
  And lets hope that Episode 2 actually starts to answer questions about what the hell 
 is going on!
  
  (By the way, here is my prediction for where Episode 2  3 will go. Remember in Half-Life 
 2, after arriving back from being teleported, Dr Kleiner was mumbling about how you jumped forward 
 a week and he thought that thought time-travel may be possible? I think that at some point we will 
 be returning to Black Mesa) 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: litledog1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 2, 2006 11:56 am PT
Review:  I can't realy add much to previous reviews - but ignore all arguements that its too short - its 
 cheap for a reason! And not long till the next episode - I can't wait.
  
  Also the commentory, which Gamespot says sounds 'rehearsed' (although it obviously is this is no 
 bad thing as it isn't meant to be a dvd style commentory) is very good and a welcome features. 
 
  
  Very occasionaly I found the game dragged on in a few areas (especialy the elevator sequence you 
 encounter fairly early on in the game) but this is realy just nitpicking at a masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pgatcomb
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 10:43 am PT
Review:  I remember as a child I used to watch AMC for the old western serials that would be on. At the 
 end of each episode there would be some kind of disaster that would appear to happen to the main 
 character. Then at the beginning of the next, you would see what "really happened" and the series 
 would continue.
  
  Half-Life: Episode 1 is a lot like one of these serials. The episode starts with some "missing 
 footage" from the end of Half-Life 2 and then ends with a bang. What happens to Freeman? Stay tuned 
 for the next episode in the series, where they will likely show us some more "missing footage". 
 The technique is starting to get a little old valve.
  
  In terms of game play, the game included some almost characteristically not Half-Life sort of things. 
 At one point in the game you are forced to spot targets with your flashlight for Alyx to fire upon 
 (or you could run your ammunition down to nothing) . Another sequence has you reprogramming rollermines 
 to attack combine, and yet another sequence has you escorting civilians to safety. And we can't 
 forget how many times we are required to find the power box to activate the lights and doors (reminds 
 me of Aliens versus Predator) .
  
  The graphics are starting to show a little bit of age, but fortunately a lot of new effects were 
 added to the game to really spruce things up a bit. The fade in effect used during the opening 
 scene as well as the looming tower in the distance are all memorable effects.
  
  The sound was top notch, and in this category the voice acting was also very excellent. If script 
 can be included, it would go here as well. The developers spent a lot of time trying to give Alyx 
 personality, and they did an excellent job. At one point during the game a floor collapses sending 
 you to the next floor down loaded with zombies. You run out of the room, break a door open and 
 then go back up to see Alyx waiting for you. Her comment "You took the scenic route." is just an 
 example of the comments that she makes from time to time.
  
  Value is tough. The game was meant to be an episode, and therefore short. But no one ever worked 
 out how exactly short your money is worth so to come up with a number, I tried to work out how 
 long it took me to get through the game opposed to another of an equal value.
  
  My first time through took me roughly 4 and a half hours. My second time roughly 3 (yes, it can 
 be that short if you know where you are going) . I always felt 1st person shooters could be longer 
 and get more involved, this one was meant to be short, but it was just too short. I use the system 
 cost/2 to determine length and then take that ratio. $20/2 = 10 hours. This game advertised 6. 
 There is also little replay value, so it hurts this even more. Not to mention there is no extended 
 death match option.
  
  In all this is an excellent addition to the Half-Life 2 universe and I highly recommend it for 
 anyone who wants a solid single player experience that they can easily beat in a sitting. The new 
 effects (and enemies, I won't spoil) will sure to be used in the modification community. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolgubbe
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 5, 2006 8:39 am PT
Review:  The Good: some new weapons i think it was, like the super-gravity gun, kinda thing. the graphics 
 is better with the new high dynamic range lightning makes the levels and the graphics looks better 
 than the original half life 2, and there is a ton of good stuff with this awesome game. and this 
 game is a tons of fun to play so it's worth your money, worth your time and worth playing it in 
 hours hours and hours
  
  The Bad: no new multiplayer content, and maybe a quite short game.
  
  This game is a absolutely 
 an amazing game that is defiently worth checking out and you can download it on steam for 20 bucks 
 and that's cool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrhankeydinks
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 2, 2006 7:36 am PT
Review:  This game begins with an interesting cinematic that provides a lot and very little insight to the 
 story at the same time. I wont say what the cinematic had except for the fact it was very intriguing. 
 I would like to say I dont think people understand the concept of episodic content. It is supposed 
 to be short and cheap, which I will admit $20 is a bit extensive but if you were smart you would 
 have bought it before June 1st you would of save $2. Will now with my insult out of the way I will 
 now start with me review.
  
  You have to get back into the citadel in the beginning of the game. If you dont the core will 
 go into a chain reaction and destroy you, Alyx, and a whole bunch of citizens so, with that understood 
 you have to retard the cores chain reaction. So you go back into the citadel with a roller coaster 
 ride (literally) . Then from there you find your way to the core, the gravity gun becomes supercharged 
 for only 1 chapter. After you have successfully retarded the core you must get out of City 17. 
 Along the way you will meet the Zombine, which is a zombie only with a combine body. Being with 
 Alyx for this whole episode adds for a different game play style which is a big welcome. 
  
  I will not go much into what you will see along the way except my favorite part of the game 
 is where you are in this huge room and it is pitch black. The elevator has loss power and you have 
 to find the power box. So you must illuminate the way for Alyx and you and find the box, once you 
 do the elevator gets power. At the same time you have awoken every single Zombie and Zombine and 
 they are going to kill you. You have to illuminate the enemies for Alyx to shoot; it will get your 
 heart pumping. Something to note is that the Zombine have this suicide idea where they charge at 
 you with a grenade, very entertaining. 
  
  The graphics in this are improved on a little but the biggest introduction is HDR, which people 
 would be surprised by just how much better a game looks with HDR. So I will say yes the world is 
 beautiful and the series still has some of the best graphics for a first person shooter. Valve 
 has also added a more dynamic voice acting and facial expression system. Adding that to Alyx makes 
 for a very moody girl, which Im sure most people welcomed when it looked like she was about to 
 cry in the game. Also they added some nice techno music to go with some of your firefights. 
  
  Overall this game is fast paced with a lot of overwhelming action. Complete that with a Zombine 
 and some unique puzzles it makes for a very nice game. Then add the new facial expression system 
 along with HDR and other ambient sounds it pushes the source engine and Half-Life 2 into better 
 graphics. This game to me is good for the $17 I paid for and I would have even been happy to pay 
 $20 for. I will be going back and playing this game again. This game gets 9.5 out of 10. 
  
  Reviewed on:
  Pentium D (Dual Core) 3.2ghz
  X800 256MB RAM
  1gb RAM
  250gb Hard Drive 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoeSlayer01
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2006 7:29 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is basically the same as HL2's, but a little bit better involving puzzles and such. 
 Episode One had some amazing puzzles that aren't like anything that you would have seen HL2. Something 
 really cool was (more of an obstacle) having to zig-zag betwen energy balls in a shaft. The game 
 had you do some really neat things with the Super Gravity Gun. The gameplay mostly felt fresh.
 
  
  Graphics... aren't that fantastic. There are a lot prettier games and engines out there to look 
 at, but the addition of HDR lighting made Episode One feel more immersive graphically. HDR lighting 
 looks great in de_dust as it does here, just not as bright, there's no sand to make it unbearably 
 bright, though sometimes you do squint your eyes around certain things about to explode in a certain 
 tower.
  
  The sound by Valve has always been good, most specifically the voice acting. It has some of the 
 most memorable characters in any videogame ever.
  
  It has a good value. $17 really isn't that bad, when you piece together how long HL2 was... 10 
 hours? $50? $5 per hour. $5 times 4 = 20, 4 hours, but Episode One is 5 hours and costs less.
 
  
  Overall Episode One is a great buy, especially for Half-Life fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hendricks55
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 2, 2006 6:46 am PT
Review:  HL2 episode 1 is awsome. possibly better than any of the full length games. however i hear many 
 complaints about how short it is which irritates me. 20 bucks for about 6 hours of extreemly fun 
 gameplay is sounding pretty good to me. pay 20 more for the next episode and then the first two 
 episodes are about as long as a full length shooter which would be 50 bucks new. and this would 
 be 40 dollars. + i want to say that episodic games will also have a much more interesting developed 
 storyline because the developers have more time to work on it.
  so please.. i wouldn't complain 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rollnbone
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 2, 2006 5:24 am PT
Review:  i am a big half life fan. ive played all the old games and the new ones. i absolutely loved half 
 life2. episode 1 is quite short. more like an extended demo. i was expecting a bit more of a climactic 
 ending. however, all of a sudden, the credits were rolling and im left waiting in anticipation 
 for episode 2!!! i had as much fun playing episode 1 as i did playing the original half life2. 
 i dont count myself as being a veteran shooter, but i am definately an avid 1. i finished this 
 game in about 6 hours or so. it has some really neat puzzles to try and figure out. i needed a 
 challenge so i played it on HARD first time through. the game is basically more of the same..... fun! 
 a good 1 timer for any half life fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dododo-doeboy
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2006 5:05 am PT
Review:  Every HL game to date had it's ups and downs. So valve just said "lets make a game so compact and 
 dense that it will concentrate all thats best about HL and leave out all the empty, repetitive 
 levels with lots of zombies" :)
  
  The result (Episode One) is the best thing to come out of valve in years, and possibly the best 
 PC FPS singelplayer experience EVER. 
  
  Almost everything is 'just right': the puzzels, the new levels, the new animations and sounds. 
 And all the all-new extras like the "Zombine", the flares, the story and of course; the new crosshair! 
 (lol) All add-up to the feeling that this is what HL2 should have been. 
  
  And since HL2 is not needed to play (just to understand the story) , Everyone can get! GET IT NOW! 
 
  
  P. S 
  Its not fair to judge this game on the account that its 'short'. The fact that it was designed 
 to be short is what allowed valve's developers to focus their talent instead of spreading it out-and 
 by doing so-improving the quality of the game.
  In other words: ITS SUCH A GOOD GAME BECAUSE ITS SHORT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceMatt
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 2, 2006 4:46 am PT
Review:  Im British and bought the game a few day ago, waited till it was 5mins 12 in the morning to play 
 is, took me 2hours to complete it, but I loved it all, it is a real fantastic part of half life. 
 (Id also like to complain because I wanted to do this when I completed it but couldnt because 
 I'm guessing it wasnt out in America then, so I couldnt -_-)
  
  You start off just after the blast a great place to start and you have a little fun with characters 
 that are around before getting to business. I thought this was a real fun way to get everyone back 
 in the half life game and I did laugh a little. You will also maybe like to know that Alyx starts 
 to show a little more interest in Freeman and along the line we gets nice little bits of quite 
 funny interaction between the 2 people. You also maybe like to know that you stay with her all 
 the way through the game only going off to turn on a light bulb or two. 
  
  In this Episode the story evolves quite rapidly (at least I thought it did) telling you whats 
 going on around the world, and again we find "that the right man in the wrong place can make all 
 the difference in the world". Again, naturally, we get more questions. I seamed to think that the 
 Vortigaunt are not telling us all that they know and I think they will have a little more say in 
 the future. DONT WORRY!! We still see our beloved G-Man! *Phew* He just looks a little angry because 
 well, now that would be telling wouldnt it. 
  
  The only small downer to the game is that its short and well a little easy, though some of the 
 challenges are very annoying on your second try you normally pass it with ease, since you know 
 whats to come. I would have liked to see a little more actions here and there more funny jokes 
 and the relationship between Alyx and Freeman evolve a little further. I say this because in the 
 Episode 2 It looks like something bad happens to Alyx and I cant help but think that if Freeman 
 is human, he going to get lonely on those boring Sunday nights. (You can all see the trailer for 
 episode 2 on its page)
  
  P. S Dont start pressing Esc and button tapping on your keyboard when you complete it, there is 
 a nice little video at thats like a small carry on. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomjhyde
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2006 11:38 pm PT
Review:  I built my entire gaming rig to play Half-Life 2. And it was quite worth it. It was pure genius, 
 one of the finest first-person-shooters, if not game I have ever played. Every moment of it was 
 exciting and genuinely fun, which I feel is rare in many games today. Yes, there is a challengeoften 
 a rather extreme challengebut often you dont get a moment where you say, Golly this is just 
 plain ol fun.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode One is sublimely fun. While the reviewers at Gamespot feel that the beginning 
 sequence is a bit of a cop-out, I disagree. I think its clever. Though someone really needs to 
 explain why the Vortigons are our friends now instead of our enemies as they were in the first 
 Half-Life. After that, it is a wild ride of epic proportions.
  
  Yes, the environments were incredible and the combination of fast-paced combat and puzzle solving 
 was done wonderfully. But where the game truly shines is Alyx, your constant companion.
  
  In most games, the friendly AI is often sorely lacking. One otherwise fantastic game at this time 
 is Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, a stunning game that everyone simply must play, but the friendly 
 AI is idiotic at times. This is the polar opposite of Episode One.
  
  Instead of hooking up with AI units occasionally, Alyx is there almost the entire time with you. 
 There are two or three sequences where she must remain behind and you have to go solo, but these 
 dont detract from the game at all.
  
  One of my personal favorite moments is during the battles through the headcrab-infested basements 
 and sewers. You have to keep your flashlight on the target so Alyx can fire, else she cant see 
 and you both die very quickly. At a point in the dark, you can kill your flashlight and suddenly 
 you will hear strange noises behind you. If you whip around and shine your light on Alyx, she laughs 
 and says got you! Brilliant writing for the characters. She also comments on how the blasted 
 flashlights battery runs out too quickly.
  
  Yes, this is only 4-6 hours. I completed in around 4 at normal difficulty. And while I wish there 
 were more, I was very satisfied with the game as a whole. This title is a must-have for anyone 
 who has an interest in story-driven gameplay. Definitely play Half-Life 2 first, but you will love 
 this and Im sure well love Episode Two and Three when they come out.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blustrexe
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 1, 2006 11:13 pm PT
Review:  Episode One has great gameplay. Some say that it ends too soon (it does) , but I'm glad that Valve 
 decided to distill the great aspects of HL2 into this tidy package instead of including its less 
 fun aspects just to make a longer game. Less fun aspects of HL2 for me included Ravenholm, the 
 long vehicle sequences, and too much "super" grav gun at the end of the game. The "super" grav 
 gun made the end of HL2 too easy, but it didn't feel that way in Episode One. Indeed, Episode One 
 was tougher overall, combining puzzles and combat well. Nothing felt repetitive either. Also, there 
 is some replay value because Valve included commentary for the game (a la a DVD commentary) .
  Also, battling the combine with Alyx was a welcome addition. She has a lot of great lines and definitely 
 saved my butt a few times. Perhaps at times she seems too powerful. During the game I thought that 
 she should have died, but she just shook off the zombies crowded around her.
  Graphics were improved for Episode One. The environments felt more detailed. HDR was done to great 
 affect too. There were a few battles where I caught myself squinting to see enemies in the bright 
 light. Very cool. Also, shiny stuff actually appeared shiny. On the other hand, I saw Alyx's white 
 shirt glow as if it were creating light when we were in the Citadel. A bit weird.
  The story was advanced fairly well. Lots of new questions though. Valve seems to be adverse to 
 the typical "boss" fight now. That trailer for Episode Two is such a tease! Hopefully, Valve gets 
 it out by Christmas, but I won't hold my breath. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mono
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 1, 2006 11:12 pm PT
Review:  I felt compelled to write a full review for this expansion due to the lackluster feelings I have 
 about HL2 itself. HL2 in my view was a pretty mediocre game considering its part of the Half-Life 
 franchise. The game had quite a few weaknesses. The puzzles involving brick stacking were far too 
 pervasive, the vehicle driving portions were far too long, boring, and tedious, and the story was 
 sparse and disappointing.
  
  This expansion has fixed all of these issues and except for its short length is a much stronger 
 experience than HL2.
  
  This review contains no spoilers regarding the story but does address what happens in a few sequences 
 of the game. If you're the type of person that thinks saying Far Cry takes place in a forest is 
 a spoiler then proceed at your own risk.
  
  Episode 1 picks up the very instant HL2 ended. This introductory sequence is a bit weak in story 
 but it did enough to kick-start the game and gets it moving. The first chapter or so takes place 
 in the same area where HL2 ended and you'll see a few environments from that game mixed in with 
 some newer stuff. The first section is by far the weakest part of the game involving mostly jumping 
 puzzles and other elements of that nature.
  
  After this section of the game though you begin your romp through City 17 once again and things 
 really pick up. The action is much more reminiscent of the excellent action sequences from HL1 
 than the more vanilla sequences that made up most of HL2.
  
  The combine zombies really spice up the action too due to their kamikaze strategy of randomly pulling 
 out a grenade and running at you. Often times they appear in a group of other hostiles and you'll 
 find yourself in a race to kill them before they can pull out a grenade.
  
  Most of the weapons from HL2 are back for this sequel. I found it interesting and slightly frustrating 
 that this is the first HL game where your first weapon is not the crowbar. You could argue that 
 your most useful weapon this time is the beautiful and deadly Alyx who is your almost constant 
 partner.
  
  Speaking of beauty, the graphics seem very nice with the new lighting and the other tweaks Valve 
 put into the engine this time. It basically looks exactly like HL2 but the new lighting and improved 
 animations and textures on the main characters add a nice touch that makes the game seem fresh. 
 If you look closely you'll see some cuts and bruises on some of the main characters you encounter 
 as you progress in addition to other neat graphical additions. 
  
  Despite the new features if you were able to run HL2 and have a DX9 graphics card you should be 
 able to see all the new features with no issues. My game only chugged in the few sections that 
 involved water which was due to the reflect all option being enabled.
  
  The sound is just more of the same. It is exactly the quality of HL2 but the addition of Alyx throughout 
 almost every section of the game really gives the sound an extra boost in addition to giving the 
 game an excellent plot devise and adding a really immersive almost conversational aspect to the 
 gameplay.
  
  Alyx is the most interesting addition to the gameplay in Episode 1. Instead of just standing behind 
 the lines like in the last game she gets her hands dirty quite often in Episode 1. There are several 
 very interesting scenes involving Alyx covering you while you run point for her and so forth. 
 
  
  During an early portion of the game your flashlight is the only light you get and Alyx needs it 
 in order to function. So managing your flashlights power, placement, and continuing to fight monsters 
 yourself spices things up a bit. 
  
  It's also nice that Alyx is quite tough and won't be getting herself killed so often as to be a 
 hindrance or annoyance. I was able to get her killed a few times during a particularly difficult 
 sequence but fixing the problem just required me to be a bit more aggressive.
  
  It's also impressive that Valve was able to create a character, which was so well animated, written, 
 and voiced that I actually found myself talking back to the screen out-loud in response to some 
 of the things she said. Now that's immersion.
  
  My only real complaint about the game is that it's just so darn short. Just when you feel like 
 you're getting going it's over. It really is that short. Don't go into this thinking it will be 
 the length of Opposing Force or even Blue Shift because it's even shorter, but thinking about it 
 I don't really mind given the way Valve is pricing it. Considering that after Episode 3 we'll have 
 a game that is basically the length of HL2 for $60 is not all that bad. I wouldn't mind them lowering 
 the cost to $15 per episode but $20 is tolerable.
  
  I also can't complain about Steam this time around. When HL2 was first released I wasn't able to 
 play for hours due to a huge download but this time Steam just decrypted my files and I was off 
 and running. Steam is really kind of nice so long as Valve keeps it similar to how it works now. 
 My only worry is that they'll change their mind sometime in the future and lock me out of all the 
 games I purchased and begin requiring subscriptions for content I already paid for. 
  
  But right now the pros of Steam far out weigh any possible future cons. I love not having to swap 
 CD/DVDs into my drives, I love having all my games in one place, and I also love being able to 
 buy a game right from my computer chair.
  
  Half-life 2: Episode 1 really is a great game all by itself. The action is much more compacted 
 and reminiscent of the marine sequences from HL1 that we loved so much while still utilizing the 
 more interesting real world physics puzzles of HL2. But unlike HL2 the game doesn't let itself 
 become bogged down in the physics to the point that you'll feel like you're playing a physics demo 
 or a brick-stacking simulator.
  
  The worst thing about the game is the teaser trailer they show you right after you beat it. It's 
 downright mean of Valve to show us that and then make us wait 6 months. But it's ok because we'll 
 be able to enjoy this little gem for at least another month or more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NoriNibori
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 6, 2006 12:06 am PT
Review:  Half-Life 2: Episode 1, What can I say except wow, just wow. I bought myself a nice new Video card, 
 and then I was like, Hey today is June 1st, So off I go and buy HL2: E1, come home, install video 
 card, install HL2: E1. I was just amazing, here are my thoughts on it.
  
  Gameplay: While a very short game, every part of it was full of action, from begining and more 
 so at the end, The end made me just beg for more. While this game held alot more puzzels then Half-life 
 2, the puzzels fit in with the main storyline nicly. One problem I had with the gameplay, was that 
 Ammo was very hard to find, so alot of the time you may be sitting back and watching Alyx do all 
 the work, where she gets her ammo I don't know. The main storyline was nicly continued starting 
 right at the end of Half-life 2, And the storyline kept true to what it started out as to the end. 
 There was alot of humor in this game, from Jokes Alyx tells as you go through the game, thought 
 alittle cheesy at times. I said this at the begining and I'll say it again, I wish it was just 
 a little longer, beacuse it felt like I beat it in almost no time at all.
  
  Graphics: The graphics were about the same as with Half-life 2, but they did seem slightly toned 
 up abit. Alyx's model as she fights is fun to watch, beacuse she kicks enemies, and dodges around 
 there attacks, very well scripted. The Effects were just amazing, especially at the end of the 
 game. While when playing I did see a few texture glitches, where a spot would have a green reflexion 
 off it, but no green light around, but small things like that you barley notice.
  
  Sound: The sound was alot better in this game then in Half-life 2, The Characters voices were more 
 define and made clear, While the dialog wasn't all to perfect, it could have been scripted slightly 
 better.
  
  Value: Value?! Come on, this game was 20$ canadian, and for that price it's way way worth it.
 
  
  That said, It was one of the greatest games I've played, and I just am twitching waiting for Half-Life: 
 Episode 2, most likly getting that the day it comes out also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: felraiser
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 1, 2006 9:53 pm PT
Review:  People have every right to be skeptical of Half-Life 2: Episode 1. It's the first real high-profile 
 game being released in the Steam-based episodic format, and it follows a game with a horrific ending 
 and great respect from the gaming press - not an enviable situation for any title. HL2: E1, however, 
 absolutely delivers what it promises. It may be short, but it's packed with action that truly outclasses 
 that of its predecessor.
  
  Episode One's story takes the player out of City 17, as directly opposed to the original game, 
 and it's fitting that such a story retreads a good deal of HL2's territory while approaching things 
 in a refreshing way. There's only one new-looking area in the game, and it's nothing more than 
 a novel view of a place the player's been to before, but that's really not the point. What happens 
 in those places is the meat of the game, and it's far more exciting and varied than in Half-Life 
 2. Puzzles, for instance, felt poorly distributed in HL2. They would generally be fairly large, 
 but they would pop up only at certain points, rather than being smoothly spread across the game. 
 Episode One corrects this, due in part to the fact that the environments you're passing through 
 are now much more unstable and ruined. This allows for dozens of simple puzzles and timing exercises, 
 making the experience feel more fluid. The combat also feels great this time around, and the new 
 Zombine actually helps a lot. It's the most unpredictable and fearsome foot soldier in the game, 
 and its punishing attacks bring a sense of urgency to the formerly middling zombie battles. There 
 are also quite a few rocket crates, oddly enough, and the ability to dole out explosive damage 
 almost at will is quite liberating in the sequences where it is possible. The best addition, though, 
 is the new focus on fighting through enemy-versus-enemy battles, especially since the foes involved 
 are so related to one another. It's very interesting to see Zombines tearing through their former 
 squadmates, overpowering Combine troops with their fierce melee attacks. Though Episode One may 
 not feel like a whole new game, it gets everything wrong with HL2 exactly right.
  
  The presentation of Episode One is, surprisingly, another marked improvement. There was very little 
 fault in Half-Life 2's graphics for instance, but the artistry of the lighting has been greatly 
 upgraded. The Source engine's fixed-light-source model is still disappointing, but Valve's HDR 
 usage is very well done, and the pitch-black middle chapter is highly atmospheric and an ideal 
 showcase for the flashlight effects. The cinematic aspects of Episode One, too, are similar but 
 enhanced. I won't spoil all the details, but one particular interaction with Dog near the start 
 of the game is flat-out inspiring, and many events with that level of flair and style show up all 
 over the game. The biggest leap forward, however, is in the music. The score seems more energetic 
 and rock-influenced, and the grating techno players were subjected to in Half-Life 2 is gone. Voice 
 and sound work, as always, is basically perfect, and so the renovations to the musical aspects 
 of Episode One make its aural experience unmatched.
  
  But, as I'm sure every reviewer will say, it's short. It took me four hours to beat, and I consider 
 myself a fairly methodical player. The end is beyond abrupt, too, though less cheap-feeling than 
 that of Half-Life 2. Still, one must consider what they're paying for this. This game, which pre-sold 
 over Steam for only eighteen dollars, is a concentrated game with a level of polish most developers 
 only dream of. The hours-per-dollar ratio is actually pretty good, considering how great each hour 
 is. I myself was no great fan of Half-Life 2, but after playing Episode One, I can't see myself 
 passing up the next two installments. If you can bear the short length, get this game now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nascarfan123
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  HL2: Episode One is the best expansion pack that I have bought for any game. The expansion pack 
 continues the story right after HL2 ended. You quickly learn how Gordon and Alyx survive the blast 
 from the Citidel, that is followed by you have to escape City 17 before the rest of the Citidel 
 exploses and destroyes all of City 17.
  
  The gameplay in the expansion pack feels a lot of the same way as the original game did, except 
 with some cool enhancements. While you are fighting everybody Alyx is on your side the entire time. 
 She does a very good job of covering your back and at times you feel like you have to assist her 
 instead of her assisting you. A new enemy is added to the mix, a Zombine which is a combine soldier 
 that has been turned into a zombie by a headcrab. The new challenge they bring is at times they 
 will arm a grenade and charge at you while holding it. Maybe in the future episodes they might 
 bring in a fast zombine as well as a toxic zombine. The action in the game is a lot more intense 
 than the original. In the original HL2 you were either fighting the combine or the other aliens 
 at different times. In this game the fights feel like one big rumble pit. The enemies are larger 
 in numbers and valve has made them be slightly smarter, which has made them tougher to kill and 
 more fun. They did a great job of making a strider be sort of an end game boss fight, and is one 
 of my favorite parts in the game. The only thing that I would have to complain about was that you 
 didn't get the crowbar until you are near the end of the game.
  
  The new dynamic lighting makes HL2: Episode One look a lot better and the environments really come 
 to life. The great voice acting is back which is nice to see but still everything sounds the same 
 as it did in HL2. There are many moments in the game where you have that I've been here before 
 feeling in it. In most games its a sign of repetitiveness but it serves really well in this game.
 
  
  Most people have complained about the fact the campaign is so short. It will take you about 4-6 
 hours to finish it. After all we already know that valve will be having two more episodes released 
 within the next year, with each episode costing about 1/3 of a normal game, so it seems like there 
 should be no reason to complain. For an FPS game it almost sounds better to have smaller segments 
 released every once in a while instead of waiting 2 years for the nest segment.
  
  HL2: Episode One is a very great game that should be played by everybody thats into FPS games. 
 It takes whats great from HL2 and makes it better. Even though the campaign is short it is very 
 well worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingMonkeyPC
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 1, 2006 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  + Very strong gameplay
  + Great voice cast - yet again
  + Excellent puzzles
  + Still looks amazing with Source
  + Alyx stays with you!
  
  Cons:
  - Yet another cliffhanger...
 
  - Too short for my taste (started with medium difficulty)
  - Some parts of the game got pretty darn laggy
  
  Review:
  Well, episode 1 is finally here... 
 and it was an awesome experience. You can definitely sense a lot of thought were given to this 
 game - as well as many users suggestions. Anyhow, Episode 1 will definitely not dissappoint the 
 HL2 fan folks. I really really enjoyed this first of the trilogy Half-Life episode saga... and 
 the end of the trailer makes me thirst for the 2nd one! It's seriously one of those games where 
 you should just pick up and play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: archvile700
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 1, 2006 8:53 pm PT
Review:  games is an increidble piece of art. graphics are great, sound rocks, and the story is awesome. 
 the main problem is that its waaaaaaaaay too short. even though the series is episodic i was expecting 
 atleast 8 hours. i started the game at 8 pm and finished it at 10 pm on the hardest difficulty. 
 i was also expecting to fight some of those stalkers, but no such luck. game is very easy just 
 like half life 2. enemies are a little smarter but not like f. e. a. r. hard. other than it being 
 really easy and it being very short, this is a terrific way to start the episode series 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iasfdglai
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 1, 2006 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Sadly enough the most time you'll spend with this game is the installation process. They had me 
 hooked in and I didn't see the end coming at all. Only took me 5 hours tops and I was on hard difficulty.. 
 hmmm. No new multiplayer.. This was a total disappointment. Save yourself the money, it's not even 
 worth the cost. Besides the shortness the game was amazing, best 5 hours I ever spent with a Halflife 
 game and I could only wish that it took me a bit longer than that. If you do buy it make sure you 
 do everythgn you can to get the most out of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedStarStrife
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 7, 2006 11:26 am PT
Review:  Gameplay deserves a 9/10 
  Only reason was because it was way too short and didnt add any new mutliplayer extras....... but 
 the fighting is still as intense as you would expect it to be and its a real exciting and suspensful 
 at lmost every minute of the game
  
  Graphics- same as half life 2 but still real good looking, though faces do look a little ugly up 
 close, and again all the characters seem to be used over and over... ive seen that smae black guy 
 like 50 times now 10/10
  
  sound- great sound as expected from a great developer, music comes in very nicely and gives you 
 a heads up that an intense part of the game is about to happen like a hufe firefight or alot of 
 alien creatures popping up out of the ground 10/10
  
  value- 9/10 because 20 bucks for 4 hours of gameplay........ cheap but still wish it was longer, 
 cant really complain because if you think about it the 3 episode will equal one game of 60 bucks 
 that will consist of a total of probably 20 hours, which is about normal game time nowadays 
  
  reviewrs tilt- Dont get me wrong, this game is awesome and real fun
  Plus you get those intense 
 music battle scenes that gets your adrenaline rushing. 
  just wish it was longer.... cant stress that enough 8/10
  
  My last words are
  
  Its really 
 worth 20 bucks just dont expect a long game....... BUY THE GAME 
  
  9.0/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsassassin
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 1, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  this is an awesome game... amazing but not the longest game. you do not want to let it go. its 
 fast paced and characters are amazing. so much fun. although its short i would not mind playing 
 it again. lets hope that Valve actually releases it in the fall. If u liked half life 2 you will 
 like this one. Although it could have used newer weapons. Also Alyx has good AI. She can get in 
 the way at times but she is a good fighter. It has some pretty good puzzles they are not to hard 
 and not to easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoalot
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 1, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2: Episode 1 is one of the greatest shooter expierences of the year.
  Many people complain about it being to short, but you have to remember, it is to be part of a trilogy.
 
  
  Valve has managed to make the new installment feel familiar, yet a fresh expierence from beginning 
 to end. The end will leave you dying for EP 2, but it is still a fun time. If you have never played 
 Half Life or Half Life 2, buy those first. The Half Life series shows what FPS games should be, 
 creative and just plain od fun.
  
  You should stop reading this review, go to Steam and download it right now!!!
  Or buy it from 
 your local EB Games. (Product placement) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liber8or
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 10, 2006 11:59 am PT
Review:  Episode 1 sees the return to City 17 after the events that unfolded at the end of Half-Life 2. 
 The City is in disarray and the great Citadel has become highly unstable. So after one and a half 
 years, has the wait been worthwhile? 
  
  The game opens up with explaining the aftermath of the finale to the original game. In my opinion 
 it raises more questions than gives answers. Nevertheless the strange introduction does make the 
 player venture on. We are reunited with familiar characters within the first 10 minutes and our 
 objectives are given. What i found the most appealing almost instantly is the HDR rendered maps. 
 The dynamic lighting across the City truly is amazing. Surfaces are highlighted softly and objects 
 glow radiantly. It does not over-burden the eyes, but it is a pleasing piece of eye candy. 
  
  As the main objective begins, the player finds himself progressing through familiar areas quite 
 steadily with the company of Alyx. Something that Half-Life Gamers are not accustomed too. Although 
 it is fun to have interactivity with other NPC's in the game, Alyx can die. She does however provide 
 some humour as you do become slightly tired drudging around corridors demonstrating Valve's Physics 
 Engine. Having said that, we are exposed to the new creatures called "Stalkers". A race that looks 
 traditional to the "Alien" stereotypical image. As interesting as these are, they are not involved 
 with direct play for very long. 
  
  It was during this stage of the game i found myself disappointed. For the first 3 Chapters, there 
 are 5 in total, we are in areas that we are all relatively familiar with. In chapters 2 and 3, 
 i began to question if it was Id Software or Valve that created this Episode due to the nature 
 of the maps. It is spent mostly in darkness, running from and gunning down Zombies. The true darkness 
 effect does create an eerie atmosphere but after 30 minutes it becomes monotonous and frustrating. 
 Weapons are very limited with the player only being equipped with the "GravGun", the Glock standard 
 pistol and the Shotgun. If you are like me and love a challenge, i played the Episode on "Hard" 
 Mode, using only these 3 weapons, a very limited supply of ammo and against Zombies that require 
 a lot of damage before going down, you might find yourself bashing the keyboard quite a lot. 
 
  
  It really isnt until Chapter 4 that the game picks up. We then get to experience the true style 
 of Half-Life. The action sequences are of Hollywood standard and you are truly immersed in the 
 game. Weapons are more readily available, the game becomes a struggle for survival and the puzzles 
 challenge you much greater. Most importantly for fans of the franchise we begin to see where the 
 game is leading with the following episodes to come. This makes the game very exciting as returns 
 to the concept of "The Freeman" and what one man can do to achieve something. 
  
  The final chapter provides a true challenge of gamer ability. You are tested to duck and dive, 
 aim and shoot and run and hide as you must aid survivors to their salvation. With true Valve style 
 just as you think its all over, it isnt quite. You must overcome one last challenge before you 
 can witness the remarkable, yet nailbiting ending. We are left with one final "chapter" that is 
 a nice teaser for Episode 2. 
  
  Overall, this Episode had to be very good from Valve. It is the first piece of Half-Life material 
 to appear since Half-Life 2 arrived almost one and a half years ago. It felt like Half-Life, it 
 had the action, it had the stunning visuals and it did advance the story, but i must say im not 
 satisfied. Why, you ask? Well, this game is 5 chapters long, it took me an estimated 4 hours to 
 complete on "Hard" Mode. It posed more questions than revealed in answers and finally it only teased 
 players. There was a very slow start that was recovered by a tumultuous ending. Looking back at 
 it again, it really feels like the "starter" of a meal that has a main course and desert to come. 
 Is this "starter" enough to make fans buy the following episodes, yes. Even though i feel frustration 
 maybe the primary emotion exerted by the community. Frustrated at getting no answers and the brief 
 taste for whats to come. 
  
  Pro's : 
  Its Half-Life! 
  Its beautiful looking! 
  Its great fun! 
  
  Con's : 
  Its too short. 
  Its not bug-free. 
  Its for dedicated fans 
 of the Franchise only. 
  
  I played the game on the following System: 
  
  ASUS P5WD2-E Premium. 
  Pentium 4 660 Processor. 
  Sapphire Radeon X1900-XTX. 
  2x 1024Mb 
 of Corsair DDR6400. 
  Creative X-Fi Fatal1ty. 
  
  Overall i would give it 7.5/10. I hope Episode 2 brings more for the fans. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MRdykon
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 1, 2006 5:45 pm PT
Review:  If youre a fan of the half life series, youve gotta play this. 10 bucks would be a more appropriate 
 price for this game rather than 20, but its part of the half life series, so I had to have it. 
 
  
  graphically, the game is still right up there as one of the best. the game takes about 5 and a 
 half hours to play, but its very well made and an extremely fun ride. Alyx really kicks ass in 
 this game and its cool to have an AI buddy tag along with you for the extent of the game. 
  
  I was, however, disappointed there were no vehicles to drive, nonetheless, the game had very 
 high entertainment value and the commentary track was a very nice touch. all I want now is to know, 
 "what happens in episode 2?"
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colton48
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 1, 2006 5:35 pm PT
Review:  I love half Life and all the expansions have been great I played this for 4 hours and beat it thats 
 not right they sell it for that I just got on that train and it gave me the credits not worth 20.00 
 but it is a great game but no where near worth the money you spend on it.
  
  Its awesome but I would buy it for 20.00 for a 4 hour game its just not worth it I thought I was 
 at least going to get 2-3 days out of it like the regular Half Life 2 I am just suprised of valve 
 to do that and Now that they have Hl2 episode 3 announced they are just going to do us the same 
 with with episode 2.
  
  But the game play is great graphics great graeat short game but not worth 20.00 bucks Im afraid.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hairball
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 1, 2006 5:19 pm PT
Review:  I JUST finished Half-Life 2: Episode 1! It was soooooo awesome! It took about 5 hours (would have 
 been less but I'm retarded with some of the puzzles) to complete. I like that it was short because 
 I actually get to finish it (many know that my attention transfers from one thing to another frequently) . 
 I don't want to spoil anything for the 2 or 3 people that will read this. The ending was incredible, 
 but the game as a whole didn't answer too many questions left by the previous game other than what 
 happens after the ending of the other one. The level design has to be the best of any game I've 
 ever played. Heres a couple of my favorite instances, I'm walking around some appartment buildings (the 
 game is pretty linear) when I see across one of the rooms a crate with ammo. I run over to it only 
 to have the floor give out underneath me. I fall to the next floor littered with zombies, headcrabs, 
 and Zombines (Alyx comes up with it after she kills one) . Another one? Sure why not. I'm running 
 through a wide hallway in a "hospital" when I see a room with lots of breakable ammo crates. I 
 walk in cautiously to have the ceiling collapse dropping dozens of headcrabs, and zombies. Surprisingly 
 I didn't jump during these freak out moments given my track record of scaring easily. One level 
 scared the crap out of me though. It's totally dark and I have to provide light with my flashlight 
 for my AI controlled partner Alyx. I have a gun too but she can only shoot where I'm pointing my 
 light. I had fun walking up to her, turning my flashlight off and then turning it on right in her 
 face. She would wince and make a comment at how inconsiderate I was. One time I noticed that when 
 the fighting got really hectic as I'm turning every which way I spray the light across her face 
 really quick as I'm turning around and see her raise her hand blocking the light from her eyes. 
 The last thing I have to say about this game is PLATFORMING DOES NOT BELONG IN ANY FIRST PERSON 
 SHOOTER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: natethedarkjedi
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 1, 2006 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Half life 2 episode one is the much anticipated follow up to Half life 2. In it you continue playing 
 Gordon Freeman as he accompanies Alyx in an attempt to escape city 17. The game is overall a bit 
 short ( I finished in about 5 hours ) but it has all the right elements of a decent first person 
 shooter. Not bad for 20 bucks.
  
  - Graphics: Half life 2 is still a nice looking game. The addition of HDR lighting is nice and 
 the game runs surprisingly smooth on middle end video cards. I run HL2 on a Geforce 6800 and I 
 was able to run the game at 1280X1024 with HDR enabled and high settings. However, episode one 
 doesnt quite look as good as many other games that run on newer game technology coming out.
  
  -Sound: The sound is good. Nuff said.
  
  -Gameplay: its the usual Half Life puzzles etc... 
 Their are some irritating jumping puzzles but otherwise its quite enjoyable to run around and whack 
 combine and aliens.
  
  -Overall: a good game for the money but still a bit short. Cliffhanger ending (literally) that 
 leaves you wanting more. Valve is going to make a killing off these episodes but the money is well 
 spent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Random1992
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 17, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  Quite possibly, this game is better than the original Half Life 2. Although this lacks being a 
 revolutionary game, the mapping, coding, and scripting make up for it. The graphics are updated 
 from Half Life 2's by the fact that now it has HDR (High Dynamic Range) which makes the lighting 
 of the game look a lot more realistic. The graphics engine for it is now easier to run because 
 my recommended settings are higher than they were for the original Half Life 2.
  
  Gameplay: The scripted scenes and puzzles make up for the easy enemies, and they overpower the 
 enemies by far when it coms to breaking them down and rating it. I felt so immersed into the game 
 I couldn't stop playing it. Some of the puzzles were pretty challenging but I got through 'em.
 
  
  Graphics: As I said before, the graphics engine is a bit updated, and the lighting looks a little 
 better than they did in Half Life 2.
  
  Sound: The sounds are the same as the Half Life 2 sounds but the Half Life 2 sounds are the most 
 realistic sounds ever. I am not exaggerating, the sounds are awesome, but there are no new sound 
 files or soundscapes (that I know of) . If you thought the Voice Acting in Half Life 2 was good, 
 then this will blow you away!
  
  Value: I can easily just go back and play this thing over again. Plus it has a commentary game 
 which is the same game but with commentary, so that's kinda cool. In addition, the gameplay is 
 better than Half Life 2's so this game beats it out. And only 20 bucks?!
  
  Tilt: In conclusion, I absolutely loved playing this game, and I'm sure you will too. If you enjoyed 
 HL2, this will be better. Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grisouille
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2006 3:04 pm PT
Review:  I didn't expect a game better than half-life 2, since hl2 itself was perfect. To my surprise, the 
 game was even better. Graphics have been really improved (character expressions, lightning, etc) . 
 It makes you learn more on city 17. Also, the cinematics in the game are just awesome and really 
 feel like part of the game. Overall it's a 10 for me, as it's one of the best games i've played 
 this year. The episode might be a little short, but every minute of it is gold. The opening for 
 episode 2 is freaking awesome, and it look like ep02 will be even better!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebtr
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 1, 2006 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Great job Valve !! The story continues with improved game mechanics .
  I am pleased with the speed and reliability of the Steam download and the
  "on time release" 
 with no lies .
  I can not find too much wrong with Episode One with the minor exception of too much in the dark 
 time... or what I like to call DOOMING the game.
  Valve adds the essential seasonings of : The Maze The Puzzle and The Melee all required for a good 
 FPS of this lineage.
  BRAVO !
  Get It
  Play it
  Lets all hope that future episodes include more NEW that more of the same stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagnusGman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 1, 2006 2:23 pm PT
Review:  I cannot believe the amount of greatness they put in this game. This perhaps the best shooter since 
 Half-Life 2. With great graphics and the traditional Half-Life feel, this turned out to be great 
 trilogy starter. This game answered some of my questions with the franchise as in the aftermath 
 of HL2. This was a fantastic experience and will keep going and going untill time ends. Valve is 
 now my favorite developer. Hopefully Valve will deliver with the final two episodes and make me 
 smile even more. Please do yourself a favor and pick-up this game. It will answer your questions (most 
 of em anyways) and make you want more and more zombie killing, combine smashing goodness 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allan_delacruz
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2006 2:19 pm PT
Review:  The first 15 mins alone pays back the price of it.... 
  
  It is nonstop action and scripted events that leave you so immersed. Along with the ambiance, this 
 game is so awesome. The graphics are much better than Half-Life 2...
  
  I like how you have Alyx as a partner now. Its not so lonely and you get to see her character more. 
 She likes to crack a joke now and then..
  
  I am still amazed at the graphics, it is more than I expected. The HDR is superb. Best graphics 
 and immersitivity out there I believe. This trilogy is going to be the best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akhen
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 1, 2006 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Suffice to say that Half Life 2: Episode One is everything you would expect it to be. If you enjoy 
 Half Life 2, you will enjoy this. The action is fast paced and the game never really sits still, 
 youre always in the action. One minute you are rescuing hostages the other you are fighting Combine 
 troops, you cant get more action packed than that. Its very fulfilling. 
  You also spend a lot of time with Alyx, and the game evolves around getting out of city 17 with 
 her help. Although the developers attempted to create a sense of need for youre AI partner this 
 is not the case. For the most part she can shoot other zombies and open doors but aside from that 
 she just follows you around. There are some fun parts where she really seems helpful but otherwise 
 its kind of missed. However, although Valve neglected that point they really struck hard with 
 character development and it really allows the story to progress naturally and brings forth many 
 questions.
  Other than that I finished the game in a measly 3-4 hours although it was supposed to be about 
 8-10 according to Valve. This is the biggest let down from the episodic release but nonetheless 
 the developers include commentaries which might excite the most hardcore fans and adds a couple 
 more hours.
  Overall the game is still a hit, its fun, progresses the story very well and the price is just 
 about right. I say go for it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legusto
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 4, 2006 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Bottomline: This game is awesome
  
  After the somewhat cliffhangery ending of Half-Life 2 it's time to revisit the dreaded City 17 
 for another adventure.
  
  This one, being only around 6-8 hours long (depending on how you play) and picks right where HL2 
 left off, with Alyx supposedly dead and Gordan the hero once more.
  
  You can still play as the "Free Man" but you spend a good portion of time as Alyx, whose abilities 
 and guns do not iddfer any from Gordan's.
  
  This game still used the gravity un, which has gotta be one of the best weapons ever, so you get 
 to have fun with physics again.
  
  This trilogy is shaping up to be great, and hopefully it will lead us right into Half-Life 3, which 
 will be awesome.
  
  Also, this game is worth $20, but it also depends on what u think, it's more of a rental though 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fusible
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 1, 2006 10:28 am PT
Review:  Wow I really like the way they built this game it's not disappointing expansion like others have 
 been in the past of other games. But one thing I must say is the improvements they made with HDR 
 are, are far more noticeable. The only thing that gets me is that Gordon is not the main character 
 but still a great game to play. All the new characters, and enemies make a much better experience 
 a little fresher look on this game, a little change is always good. I will surely have fun for 
 the hours to come playing this expansion. I will be waiting for next iteration of this series can't 
 wait for episode 2. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
