-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Half-Life: Counter-Strike
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/halflifecounterstrike/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 27, 2000
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.4
Critic Score: 8.9, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 6,322 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: CounterStrike Team
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date:     Nov 8, 2000
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you don't have the exceptional Half-Life, the new retail edition of Counter-Strike is a chance 
 to get a stand-alone version of this outstanding multiplayer mod. 

 Half-Life: Counter-Strike is one of the most unusual PC game releases in months. The hugely popular 
 mod for Valve Software's Half-Life has been available for free download for well over a year, and 
 you can still download it for free off the Internet now that it's been through beta testing and 
 has reached version 1.0. And if you don't have the exceptional Half-Life, the new retail edition 
 of Counter-Strike is a chance to get a stand-alone version of this outstanding multiplayer mod. 
 The retail package also includes stand-alone versions of other multiplayer mods and game modes 
 that normally require Half-Life, the best of which are also available free off the Internet: Team 
 Fortress Classic, Opposing Force Multiplayer, Firearms, Redemption, Ricochet, and Wanted. Counter-Strike 
 itself is a superb game that fully deserves top billing in this release.   

  Counter-Strike divides players into teams of terrorists and counterterrorists in four game modes: 
 rescue/hold hostages, bomb target/defuse bomb, escape from/guard an area, and assassinate/guard 
 a VIP. None of these ideas are particularly original, but they're well implemented, and they strike 
 an effective balance between realistic stealth and frenzied action. The thematically varied maps 
 maximize tactical possibilities with alternate routes, multiple levels, and abundant cover. Games 
 are played in short rounds, and when you're killed, you sit out the round as an invisible observer; 
 there are no deathmatch-style respawns. This creates a strong social aspect, because with "dead" 
 players chatting, there can be an enormous sense of tension for the remaining players stalking 
 each other. Another big impetus to stay alive is that the more successful you and your team are 
 each round, the more money you earn for buying bigger and better weapons. Unfortunately this can 
 lead to a huge imbalance in firepower when one team wins a few consecutive rounds.   

  One of Counter-Strike's biggest appeals has always been the selection of weapons. In addition to 
 a knife and assorted grenades, there's a wide variety of accurately modeled pistols, shotguns, 
 submachine guns, assault rifles, and sniper rifles. Three new weapons have been added to version 
 1.0: the H&amp; K UMP .45, FN Five-Seven, and the SIG SG-550, though the retail version of the game 
 uses invented names for all weapons.   

  Each weapon has unique characteristics, so mastering them all and learning which is best for different 
 situations is a lot of fun, and it adds replay value. For instance, high-caliber weapons can penetrate 
 thin walls and doors, which makes lugging a heavy belt-fed machine gun worthwhile when the enemy 
 has been doing more hiding than fighting. Guns also have varied kicks, which makes full automatic 
 fire a "spray and pray" affair - as in real life, short, controlled bursts are best for accurate 
 fire. Effective weapon ranges are well simulated, so shotguns are brutal in close quarters and 
 useless in large open spaces. Location-specific damage modeling means that shots to the head are 
 more likely to get an instant kill.   

  Another part of the weaponry's appeal is the superlative sound effects. The guns sound remarkably 
 realistic and powerful, which makes them viscerally fun to shoot. Equal care is given to other 
 game sounds, like explosions, injuries from weapons or falling, glass shattering, and so on. Another 
 good feature is the various audio messages you can send to teammates. They cover a whole range 
 of warnings, status reports, and requests for backup. The only problem is that they all use the 
 same voice, regardless of your team.   

  The Half-Life graphics engine may be dated now, but Counter-Strike has always used it to its fullest 
 potential. The maps are visually appealing, and they have imaginative texturing and dramatic (though 
 sometimes too dark) lighting effects. The updated character models in version 1.0 now use Valve's 
 model-blending technology, along with even better skins than in the past, which makes for great-looking 
 player graphics. Best of all are the firearm models and skins, which are some of the best you'll 
 find in any shooter.   

  Counter-Strike is an online-only game that has experienced the mixed blessing of its immense popularity. 
 You're guaranteed to find plenty of available game sessions online at any hour. However, cheating 
 and even verbal abuse have long marred the gameplay in Counter-Strike. The game is not in any way 
 newbie-friendly, despite the inclusion of a simple offline tutorial. You'll have to leave your 
 ego at the door when you encounter the countless veteran players you'll face online. Fortunately, 
 the abundance of experienced players means you can quickly learn the tricks of the trade through 
 observation. It should also be noted that while Counter-Strike does require tactical thinking and 
 teamwork, it's still a fast-paced shooter at its core. So not only are lightning-fast reflexes 
 necessary to excel, but so are a fast connection and a low ping.   

  Still, despite its weaknesses, Counter-Strike is undeniably influential, and has already helped 
 inspire countless similar mods and games. It's easy to see why: Counter-Strike has a simple yet 
 effective design that's brought to life with superior maps and vivid graphics and sound. The end 
 result is utterly exciting and addictive. Counter-Strike is a model of its kind and a thrilling 
 action game.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (175 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Yossi1007
Rating: 1
Date: Apr 16, 2009 4:14 am PT
Review:  THE SCORE IS 4 SORRY FOR THE 1 ITS A BUG i couldnt move the slider
  
  the graphics have very low resolution textures and "squarish" models (not only the 3rd person even 
 the 1st person got them) that is one reason why is that game so bad.
  the gameplay is stupid because you dont have cover system it means that to shoot someone you got 
 to get out with all of your body.
  the only way to aim is with that + reticle you cant see through your weapon like in cod and in 
 addition you cant prone or sprint and not to dream even on normal ranking and servers.
  
  the sound is really basic no background music or detailed ambient sound
  all the doors are making 
 silly sound that says "hey i'm over here".
  
  and pc's with 3ghz (not mine) got a huge frame rates drop in a smoke that looks really bad.
  
 
  
  hope you will enjoy cod 4 or crysis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eurokas
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Counter-Strike, Camper-Strike and so on. Many names for this game. When I started playing this, 
 I was 14. I remember my first time. It was the experience, what I will never forgot. Snipers, rifles, 
 sub-guns, pistols, every size, every ways to kill opponent. Terrorist and Counter-Terrorist, that'll 
 be your choise. Clanwars, public gaming, that will upgrade you to new level. As more as you play, 
 the more experiend opponents you will have. Granades are flying, flashes and smokes, try to snipe 
 now. Best way is to plant a bomb, but sometimes somebody has defused it and you lost your round. 
 Hey look, its that guy again on cheating, don't worry, VAC ban will get him and it will be shame 
 on him. Hmmm.... Where to join, favourite server will help you to choose or if you didn't add, 
 history will or you can just join random server. My friend is playing, yes you can see him playing. 
 You will meet new friends and maybe later you can add them so you can chat out. Counter-strike 
 1.6 as everyone call it, will be never forgotten. Shooting throw walls aka wallbanging, some flash 
 bugs, hey, that doesn't matter, it only will make the game interesting. There are many ways to 
 change your config, starting keyboard layout, bindings and more usefull graphic and sound setups. 
 If you have microphone, don't be afraid to use it. You can allways help your teammates out by telling 
 enemy's position. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Borgerokko
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 12:17 pm PT
Review:  this game is almost perfect (if u like FPS on the computer)
  you can play it for hours or even days or weeks or months or even better..... years!
  actually 
 thanks to the maps you wil like this game more and more because there are more than 2000 maps!
 
  
  
  
  this game is almost perfect (if u like FPS on the computer)
  you can play it for hours or evem days or weeks or months or even better..... years!
  actually 
 thanks to the maps you wil like this game more and more because there are more than 2000 maps!
 
  
  
  
  this game is almost perfect (if u like FPS on the computer)
  you can play it for hours or evem days or weeks or months or even better..... years!
  actually 
 thanks to the maps you wil like this game more and more because there are more than 2000 maps!
 
  
  
  
  this game is almost perfect (if u like FPS on the computer)
  you can play it for hours or evem days or weeks or months or even better..... years!
  actually 
 thanks to the maps you wil like this game more and more because there are more than 2000 maps! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lolnought
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 31, 2008 11:17 pm PT
Review:  this game is like rappers hate it or love it I love rap music
  but this is counterstrike, counterstrike is a realistically designed game corrupted by spammers, 
 cheaters and pros no place for a new guy if you have been playing pc games for a while its a nice 
 game if you somehow have it as a new guy its frustrating. but playing with the bots is awesome 
 fun, they have more brains than the online players while playing with bots to gain experience is 
 good but ive been playing this game for a year and i still cant kill any bad guys so if you like 
 playing with freinds on wireless network its awesome 
  the maps are interesting theres an arabian map called dust which is good and theres an office map 
 which is also very good and very realistically built with things to break 
  
  actually getting to an online server for about 10 minutes without leaving out of frustrating is 
 very fun but most of the time you have to be part of a clan or you cant be lagging more than 250 
 ping most of the time
  so its fun if your good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jkid7321
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  This game is great!
  I can't get enough of it 
  Here are some pros and cons I could think of
  Pros:
  Great game (low price too $9.99)
  Lots 
 of game mods of sorts on servers
  Cons:
  bad graphics (But it came from 2000)
  Ping can sometimes get you kicked from a server
  Hackers will make you mad!
  
  You should 
 seriously check this game out!
  You can get this game for free too! (Non-Steam)
  If you buy it off of Steam the servers will be great!
  You can find some mods to make the graphics 
 look good.
  This game will work on most PCs unlike CS: S 
  You should play this game! 
  You'll might need some training to play good 'cause their lots of pros and hackers.
  It's a bit 
 hard to find a server that would not have a lot of ping so I recommend you have a good internet 
 and you find a server near your area.
  It will let you pick where (US West, East, Africa, Asia, etc.)
  This game is arguably the best FPS 
 ever!
  
  Graphics: 6
  Sound: 10
  Gameplay: 9
  Multiplayer: 9
  Storyline: -N/A
  Impression: (i don't know what this means)
  Just buy the game (you'll love it!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MC_1994
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  Counter-Strike brain-washes people
  
  Everyone likes Counter-Strike. I don't understand why. It's unplayable, there's no way to play 
 it, and even if you can manage to join a game, many things happen. You will be kicked out because 
 everyone is member of some clan or something, then even if you have the best internet connection 
 in the world, the host will kick you out because he played so much Counter-Strike, it had damaged 
 his brain and he thinks that you are a lagger.
  
  Potential
  
  The game has a high potential of beeing a cool multiplayer, but people drag it down a lot. This 
 is the kind of game that should be played with the right people, but everyone is the wrong people, 
 so it's not worth playing it. 
  
  Miracles happen kids...
  
  When a miracle happens and nobody kicks you out, then you can join a game (that happens after a 
 lot of time) . So, you pick a team (CT or Terrorists) and play. You'll have at start an amount of 
 money which can be used to buy stuff like weapons, armours, ammo etc. OK so far, but the worse 
 comes. All you have to do is to find the enemy and shoot him. You might think there's nothing unusual 
 about that, but it is. It's repetitive!!! A lot. It's like this - Start the game Buy weapons Find 
 enemy DEAD! Start the game Buy weapons Find enemy DEAD! and so on. Of course, you can kill the 
 enemy but sometimes it seems impossible. Why? Well, you shoot your opponent in his chest or head... nothing 
 happens. Conclusion? Cheaters. Yes, kids. You can use cheats in this game which is freaking annoying. 
 It destroys 90% of the game's fun and potential. You might tell that guy to stop cheating, but 
 who listens to a "noob" as CS people call them. 
  
  Valve takes action
  
  After a few years, Valve releases VAC servers. Their purpose is to stop people cheating. That's 
 nice, though. It finally saves the game. "Hurray!!!! Let's play the game with no cheaters."... and 
 then, BOOOOM!!!! VAC servers are full of cheaters. Again kids, that's true. I don't make this up 
 just because I'm an anti-CS gamer. No. I am telling the true. Somehow these bustards do something 
 to hack the VAC servers. I remember playing a server called glontz_server which was a VAC server. 
 The whole server was full of cheaters. I started the game normally, then I found my opponent and.... POOK!!! 
 He got me with one headshot. Once more, I started the game normally, then I found my opponent and.... POOK!!! 
 He got me with another headshot. And this thing continued again, again and again. Frustrating and 
 repetitive!
  
  Faster than speed of light
  
  Not sure if this thing is a cheat or not, but sometimes I see people (usually Terrorists) who move 
 very fast. In just a second they reach the other end of the map. You can't even touch them or shoot 
 them. What the heck? When did Superman become a terrorist? 
  
  Another down side.....
  
  Also, let's begin by the horrible graphics. I know this is a mod for Half-Life, but for some 
 reason it redefines the concepts of "UGLY" and "DEFORMED". It's a sore to my eyes. Ufff! You might 
 go blind or see things like I did. 
  
  Make love, not Counter-Strike
  
  Well, this is where the game really makes you wonder, why everyone loves this thing?
  Counter-Strike 
 is supposed to be a tactical game like Rainbow Six or SWAT, but no, it's not!!!! It's just a simple 
 gotcha, but everyone thinks that's a truly tactical and realistic game, the game should be called 
 "GOTCHA 2000" or something like that. No tactics, no strategies. Nothing. The only thing that might 
 help you in the game is to stay in groups. That's very useful against cheaters or pro CS players 
 (or cheaters I call them) . 
  
  Conclusion
  
  In the end, avoid this game at all costs. It's a waste of time and a worthless download. If you 
 want a real game go for the original Half-Life, or if you prefer a counter terrorism game, go for 
 Rainbow Six Rogue Spear, that's a real excellent game. The only thing good in this game are the 
 sounds. There're just fine.
  
  Graphics: 5
  Sound: 8
  Gameplay: 4
  Multiplayer: 6
  Storyline: -
  Impression: 3
  
  Score: 5.2
  GameSpot Score: 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hoangtu123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 3:55 am PT
Review:  Counter Strike 1.6 is my favourite game of all time, maybe the graphics are very outdated but if 
 you looking for gameplay, a pure gameplay, you can find it with Counter Strike 1.6. I've been playing 
 CS since 2001 and still love it.
  
  Graphics: Counter-Strike is running off an engine that is seven years old, so there isn't too much 
 here, good enough.
  
  Sound: Nothing special, great enough.
  
  Gameplay: Everything about the gameplay is perfect. The weapons load and shoot very nicely, recoil, 
 position, c4, defuse, hostage, simple but great.
  
  --------------------------------------
  
  Good: Great Gameplay, great maps, great sound, many 
 weapons, awesome mods, works on low end PC's.
  
  Bad: Cheaters, many of them.
  
  I have been playing a lot of FPS online games, like Call of duty 2, 4, FEAR, Counter Strike Source.. etc.
 
  
  But, CS still the best multiplayer game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucianu
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 7, 2008 12:28 am PT
Review:  You either hate it, or you love it. I chose to hate it. Now, not because its old. I still play 
 UT1, witch is truly fun. But, the cheaters, the insults, bad comunity (on some servers) , and the 
 fact that it is 100% punishment for new gamers, makes this game more a solution to kill your self 
 out of anger then to play for fun. 
  
  Good things:
  - Good maps, some user made, and so many of them.
  - If your good (i mean really good) and have 
 good patience at the game, you might like it. 
  - Graphics, good for the time. 
  - many players and many servers active, day and night.
  - some servers do have a relatively good 
 comunity.
  - many weapons.
  - Works on low end PC's.
  
  Bad things:
  - Cheaters, lots of them. You will get plenty of headshots coming from no were. 
  - horrible 
 gameplay for newbies to the game. 
  - more frustrating then fun. And that is the major downside. Games=Fun, not Games=incredibly frustrated, 
 and swearing like an idiot in front of your screen every second.
  - Bad comunity (though some servers do have a good one, most of them do not) .
  
  Overall: 6.0
 
  Can be addicting, but bery frustrating, if your not good at it. You might try it ofc., but there 
 is a good chance you'l end up uninstalling it and swearing constantly. For a remedy to that situation, 
 i recommend playng Unreal Tournament1, 2003, 2004 or 3 single player. Can do wonders. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: minimme
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Music: 8.0
  Nothing too special here, because no music is playing in gameplay. There's some at the menu but... 
 yeah. Makes it more realistic i suppose.
  
  Sound: 9.5
  Great sounds, good footstep noises. Every single gun makes its own noise when shot and reloaded. 
 Great sounds.
  
  Gameplay: 10.0
  This is the best game I've ever played in a long time gameplay-wise. Probably the best first-person 
 shooter on the planet, and i can't really explain why. Everything is perfect, health, cost etc. 
 Buy this game, it is very very very very very very very very very very very (as you may have notices, 
 i didn't have 800 characters) very very very very good, buy it... NOW. IT'S PERFECT! BUY IT!
  
  Graphics: 8.0
  Nothing too special here, but considering it was made in like 2000, you can't 
 blame it. Still everthing else makes up for it.
  
  Value: 10.0
  I'd rather play this than source.
  
  PROS:
  Sound
  Gameplay
  
  CONS:
  Grpahics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake2215449
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  Counter-strike is one of the best shooters in the world. It features two factions. Terrorists (T) 
 and Counter-terrorists (CT) . The T's job is to plant bombs on bomb sites and prevent the CTs from 
 defusing it. Or they capture hostages and the CT's have to rescue them. This game I must say is 
 like the father of shooters. It is what modern shooters are based on. Even some modern shooters 
 are not as good as this! If you play online, you will find at least over 50 servers of each continent! 
 I mean people still play it. I still play it! And I rock! If you want to find me my name is Cyberium 
 and my clan is Elite. 
  
  Counter-strike is the best game because it is very realistic in every sense even now, it features 
 modern day weapons which are used by the army and by terrorists, it also features a massive online 
 system and a normal play system! Whats great about this one is that it includes Half-life! If your 
 bored of Counter-strike, just play Half-Life! People also play that as well!!! Its the same as 
 Counter-strike but it features aliens and sci-fi stuff. 
  
  Anyways both games are amazing and if you want this, just go to counter-strike. com and buy the 
 game. There are also newer parts of Counter-strike which are even better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sn4k3_64
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  Ok first off this is my favourite game of all time and I will explain why after I have pointed 
 out what this game is about and what type of gamers its aimed at.
  This game is only multiplayer originally but bots can be added (much better online) .
  The game 
 is about terrorists and counter terrorists basically trying to win rounds by way of killing eachother, 
 planting bombs/defusing bombs.
  The game is aimed for people who are into hardcore first person shooters and are willing to put 
 in a lot of time to this game because it can take time to improve skill wise.
  At the start of each round, players have the chance to buy their own weapons, depending on the 
 amount of money they have.
  I found the gameplay to be extremely addictive and immersive. When getting kills, especially headshots, 
 it feels great.
  The weapons are fantastic imo because they all have different, distinct features. Like the ak 47 
 for example is known for its quite harsh recoil and high damage, but making a very popular choice. 
 
  The graphics are very outdated and this definitely puts quite some people off the game, but if 
 your looking for pure gameplay, you can find it with cs 1.6.
  Overall this game is groundbreaking and should be on most fps fans shelves, but people looking 
 for graphical eye candy should look elsewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soccer_Champ_06
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 12:59 am PT
Review:  Some months ago, I purchased Counter-Strike as many of my friends had the game, and told me it 
 was great fun. I didn't realise how great the online-play of this game was... so many levels to 
 choose from, so many guns, and so many features!
  I've spent hours playing this game against my friends, and "my golly" it is awesome!
  The graphics 
 in the game are not top stuff, although I guess the graphics can't be brilliant considering I've 
 almost never experienced bad latency. (AKA "Lag")
  The only factor of the game which should be improved is the amount of weapons which are featured 
 in the game. There are a fair few, although I almost always use the same weapon, as the shhit weapons 
 are shhit, and the great weapons are great... meaning there isn't any point using a piss-weak pistol 
 in a bloodfire level.
  
  Graphics - 6/10
  Gameplay - 8/10
  Presentation - 6/10
  Online Play - 9/10
  CPU Usage - Average
  
  OVERALL - 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ONE_BIG_MOB1
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 30, 2008 10:40 am PT
Review:  Counter Strike for me is the best gaming will ever get. 
  
  And believe me I'm no fanboi giving this 10/10 just to raise it's User Score. To me it is perfect, 
 once they update the graphics every few years and somebody keeps coming up with new maps. But frankly 
 having played De_Dust2 for 40+ hours on 1.6 I'm nowhere near getting tired of it yet.
  
  Anyway heres a hopefully comprehensive list of reasons why this game is so good:
  
  1. To be 
 the very best at this game you have to think like a top athlete. Because if you don't stay confident 
 your aim suffers. That might sound scary and a lot like work but it just makes getting really good 
 all the more enjoyable. 
  
  2. Playing online means straight away it's 100 times more realistic and exciting than any offline 
 shooter.
  
  3. It makes you concentrate harder than you thought you could, which adds to the tension.
  
 
  4. Getting killed is hell which makes racking up 3+ kills in a round absolute bliss.
  
  5. It rewards lateral thinking eg. using unusual tactics the enemy wouldn't have suspected.
  
 
  6. It strikes the perfect balance between realism and enjoyment. A shot to the head means death 
 but at least getting shot in the leg doesn't mean you have to limp around the place.
  
  Thats it. Two concessions: obviously not for casual gamers. And you might find the only way to 
 match the top players on your server is to play all day, every day. Which might leave you thinking 
 "this is like the time I binged on heroin for 3 months". lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xillionMKD
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 4:23 am PT
Review:  This game is playing since 2001, I think there will always be 1000000+ gamers playing this game, 
 this is immortal game, it never dies. Bad thing in this game is that there a lot of cheaters, and 
 cheats for counter strike are very very easy to buy. For some cheats you should enter the cheat 
 name in google and click 2 links and be on the download page. You can also record demos and show 
 people what is your skill from CS 1.6 but, there are a lots of bugs when you watch that demos, 
 like awp-crosshair, ingame you can't have crosshair on the snipers.
  
  The gameplay is fascinating because if you buy awp (sniper with 6000+ joules) and hit the enemy 
 in legs you will drain his energy to -20 from 100.
  If you get any of the weapons and if you hit different parts of the body of the enemy it will take 
 different damage. I give 10 for the gameplay.
  Gameplay:10
  
  For today this graphic is very good, but not excelent. But if we get back in 2001 we will get conclusion 
 that this graphic was great!
  Graphic: 9
  
  Sound is amazing if I was able to give 10000 score for the sound I would do it. Different weapons 
 have different sounds, like the other games, with the help of the sound you can hear what type 
 of weapon has your enemy and where is he coming from.
  Sound: 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pinkyimp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Doom and Quake started the Multi player fps genre but i must say that many other companies refined 
 it, like ID and Blizzard with Battle. NET, but come valve with Steam and CS 1.6 changes the way 
 i love MP FPS games for years to come
  
  first off i have to say the CS started as a mod.. it was never Valves to begin with but that is 
 what makes the game even more amazing that a mod community can create such a game that people know 
 and love today
  
  Graphics..
  good.. at the time.. so im going to put myslef back in time and just think its a great looking game
 
  
  9
  
  Gameplay 
  great game.. the gunplay mechanics are down so well, the choice of which body part to shoot for 
 damage really plays into effect
  
  10
  
  no story so ill skip
  
  Controls
  KB/M are the only way to play this game... there is a traditional just KB controls but thats just 
 not up to snuff with this game.. sence people will pull head shots out of there ass you have to 
 be ready for anything..
  
  10
  
  Best MP FPS ever... close.. its one hell of a game online but it lacks on game types.. there are only 
 2 DE-fuse. and CS, which is hostiage rescue. but still one great mp game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maybe137
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 8, 2008 4:06 pm PT
Review:  in counter strike 1.6 you will get many games but my favourites is condition zero and the original 
 cs and condition zero deleted scenes and in the multiplayer mode you will play in many many different 
 of maps in the original cs you can only play multiplayer but in the condition zero you can play 
 in multiplayer and singleplayer but in the deleted scenes you can only play single player in the 
 deleted scenes you will play in some unknown maps it's in algeria and fillipines and many more 
 but in the singleplayer it wil be easier you will take less damage. but for me i think that the 
 multiplayer is much funnier than the singleplayer because you will play with another players and 
 you can speak with eachothers in texts and sounds and you can do some tags very very very good 
 games but not good hraphic that why i gave it 8.5 of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waz-za
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2008 11:37 am PT
Review:  great multi player but no single player which could have made it even better...
  bad graphics though their alright 4 the time of its release but their just pretty bad quite pixely 
 2 sometimes but the gameplay makes up 4 it. and thats about it i dont really think theres much 
 2 say about so im just gonna waste space yk i do in all my reviews.. dfijgiugfj iogvbrhi bjrh bjfo 
 fjnj gre d fijgiu vhfdjkhgjh ijefhiugf iuegfjigjh
  dfij giugfj iogvb rhibjrh bjfohfjnjgre fijgiugfj io gvb rhib jrhbjfohfj jgredfijg
  dfij giugfjio 
 gvbrhibjrh bjfo fjnjgredfij giug fjiogvbrh ibjrhbjf ohfjnjgre fijg
  dfij iug ogvbrh ibj bjf jfo hfjnjgredfijg gfjiogvb rhibjr hbjfohfjn jgre dfijg
  dfijgiug fjiog 
 brhib rh jfohfjnjgr edf giugfjiogvbrh ibjr hbjf ohfjn gredfijg
  dfijg iu fjio gv br hi bj rhbj fohfjnjgredfijg iugfjiogvbrhibjrh bjfo hfjnjgredfijg
  fdgji jifshigf 
 iufij mj9 fjoi fm ui gjf f jjkf jgjdf hg h jfioh jh jfk
  
  thats should do it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zaikon7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  I've played this game for about nearly 4 years or so and thats the longest time i've ever put on 
 a single game cause this game is a pure exemple how a skill requiring FPS game should look alike. 
 I've started out in lan with friends playing against eachother and after for a while we made a 
 guild and started to play in online against others. clanbase was pretty new website back then and 
 lots of action was going on. This game was so much fun i could keep playing lots of hours in a 
 day and still keep it intresting cause i was good at it! :) . I've actually played this game for 
 my country a few times before quiting the game In clanbase nation cups, lans and wcg qualifers
 
  
  what can i say?? It was the best fps shooting game back its days (expecally when u could jump and 
 make headshots:)
  
  
  
  The Good : a intense skill and teamplay requiring game on its high level play
  
  The Bad : 
 Wasent enough good maps to play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 5:31 am PT
Review:  This game is awful, regardless of what version. I started with CS when V.5 came out and would play 
 it along side its superior cousin, TFC. From the beginning the gameplay was simple, too simple. 
 Other than some maps that have an "object," the game is just respawnless team deathmatch. The weapons 
 are extremely unbalanced, and with an aimbot and AWP the server is ruined. Because of the weapon 
 power, the game encourages camping, and nullifies any chance for a real firefight. Though it looked 
 decent way back when, compared to other artistically driven mods and games, CS is extremely drab.
 
  
  The sound was inferior to other mods at the time.
  
  This game is neither fun or semi-realistic, so it fails on all accounts, miserably.
  
  Stop 
 playing this!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BangsLiekWhoa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  Everyone who has ever owned a PC knows this game. Everyone who has ever been to a LAN party has 
 played this game. There is no escaping the fact that even though its graphics are now outdated, 
 it was still the best multi-player game for years. Based off one of the defining monuments in gaming 
 history (Half-Life) this game turned what was (and is still) one of the best single-player experiences 
 into one of the best and most played multi-player experiences ever.
  
  Yes, now there are multi-player games with better graphics and more realistic physics, but none 
 of them changed the online and LAN party sections of the gaming world as much as Counter-Strike. 
 Almost every gamer that has been playing for over ten years (and some who haven't) has played this 
 game for countless hours with friends or online with their clan or with complete strangers. However 
 you played this game, you still have memories of what I would call the best Multi-player game ever. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  In all honesty, I never did like Counter-Strike, but I will be as fair as I can be with this review.
 
  
  The game itself is a multiplayer game (mod for Half-Life) that is quite possibly one of the best 
 mods of its time. You have two teams, and you have (generally) urban environment in which you must 
 try to elimate all of the opposing team with realistic weapons. You don't spawn until one team 
 is completely destroyed, in which case a new match begins (like Rogue Spear) . Sometimes you will 
 have objectives, where the Terrorists have to plan a bomb or keep hostages safe while the Counter-Terrorists 
 have to disarm the bomb or rescue the hostages, but the goal is essentially the same: destroy the 
 other team. The boatload of maps that are included are wonderfully crafted and thanks to the large 
 number of maps, there is quite a bit of variety there as well. This sounds basic, but there is 
 a twist that allows players to obtain better equipment based on their skills: money.
  
  How it works is the more bullets of yours that make contact with the enemy, the more money you 
 make. This is a miniscule amount though, and the best way to make money is to actually make kills 
 and survive rounds. With this money, you can purchase, grenades, advanced weapons, body armor and 
 other goodies to help you better overwhelm the enemy, which can only be purchased when you are 
 at your spawn point. This means that the more skilled you are, the more rewarded you will be. The 
 one problem with this, is that oftentimes the less skilled won't have much of a chance to get better, 
 since they will almost always be overwhelmed and will never have the money to play with the higher 
 level weapons. In time though, players tend to get better anyway.
  
  The one other issue I had was that the hit-detection system seemed to be a little off, where sometimes 
 I would shoot a person in the leg and they would die, or I would shoot a person in the head and 
 they would have nearly full health. This doesn't happen nearly as often as complainers claim, but 
 it is often enough to notice.
  
  The game itself looks fine, making good use of the Half-Life engine to create unique urban maps 
 that are not exceptional, but get the job done.
  
  The sounds are as wonderful as ever though, with each gun sounding as powerful as it should.
 
  
  In the end, this game is for those of you that enjoy tactical team-based multiplayer. For those 
 of you who do not like that, and prefer fast paced deathmatch or team-based games, then I'd suggest 
 you stick with Half-Life Deathmatch and Team Fortress Classic. Still, this is a rare example of 
 how a mod can take advantage of a game and make it better. CS may not be for everybody, but for 
 those who are interested, you will likely not be dissapointed. Enjoy.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound: 9/10
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Value: 9/10
  
  OVERALL: 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: net_mugger
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  First of all Idk how to classify it... I mean it's both great multiplayer and highly addictive! 
 Where I live all ppl know about this game and u can find way over 10k servers. The game looks simple 
 on an overview, but if u play it in multiplayer with the best players in the world... this game 
 can become the hardest of all.... and u can think only at the final outcome... of being the best. 
 Of course that is a very hard objective.
  
  Why?
  
  I tell u... it's cause there are 1) need of experience - u can't start playing today and tommorrow 
 beat the best or even in a yeartime u couldn't! This is to know the maps.... every map... every hiding 
 place in every map... shoot through smoke with any weapon... and beat you opponent... throw a grenade 
 almost perfect...
  2) u need a below perfect  that actually u need experience more 
 than ever. 3) there are many weapons... and here each weapon has a type of shooting... so u'll say 
 all weapons are good at something. But that's false; the archrivals: M4A1 vs CV-47 are top class 
 and also other archrivals: Steyr AUG vs KRIEG 552 that are also top class but less used:) there 
 are also sniper rifles Schmidt Scout - that is a swift but less deadlier sniper (2shot=1kill rarely 
 kills from 1shot if enemy is not equiped with kelvar helm - that's acutally available to any weapon: P 
 OR if headshot 1shot=1kill obviously - that's also available to any weapon) Well I made a little 
 sum about weapons it seems;) Oh and there are the grenades of course (handG - deals area damage; 
 smokeG - lowers area visual for a long period of time ; and flashG - lowers visual for a short 
 period of time to all players that see the grenade detonate) and there is the typical 2-mission 
 styles:
  1 - hostage rescue : terrorists protect hostages while counter-terrorists try to save them (race 
 against time for cs)
  2 - bomb : counter-terrorists protect bases while terrorists attempt to plant the bomb in one of 
 them and bomb has to destroy target for mission success (race against time for t)
  
  So once again I say that this game IS the best FPS multiplayer for all it has! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 35345
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  graphic, audio,.... nothing special,... but really this is ... i can bet on it... the most played game 
 of all time......
  tell me 1 person who dont played the game or sayed that the game isnt worth buying.... he is just 
 sick.... this game is one of the best game off all times.... and even today they are some internet 
 clubs where cs is the number 1....
  after all, the game was realised in 2000!!!!
  soooooooo
  bioshock, crysis, cod4.... all great fps... but this one is a classic and its worth not 
 just give your money.... much, much, much more
  soo i give this game 9..... you may ask yourself why just 9????
  because of a few bugs..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Micro-
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life was basically the base for FPS on the PC. Modifications and Online modes increased the 
 popularity of this game by quite a bit. The game Counter-Strike 1.6 came out of the Half-Life engine 
 based on a Terrorist / Counter-Terrorist encounter. The objective of the game is either for Terrorists 
 (on de_maps) to destroy the bombsite or eliminate all of the counter-terrorists or (on cs_maps) 
 to make sure the CTs don't rescue the hostages or eliminate all CTs. For Counter-Terrorists its 
 either (on de_maps) to protect the bombsite or eliminate all terrorists or (on cs_maps) to rescue 
 all hostages or eliminate all terrorists. Most of the rounds end with the teams eliminating each 
 other. The game is over 7 years old as of the date I am submitting this review. It is still one 
 of the most played online multiplayer FPS today. The game is enjoyable. Most people who have been 
 playing for 3 months or more have had an encounter with a hacker. Which is a person who injects 
 cheats into the game in order to help the hacker obtain information on where the enemy is or to 
 help the hacker automatically aim at the enemy. Other then that the game is fun if an admin is 
 there to control the server. Quite a bit of people can get interested in this game because of its 
 "bargain bin" price with fun gameplay. The games graphics are good for it's time. The models look 
 better then the environments, but some maps have enhanced features. Every once in a while you'll 
 experience lag and overall annoying people, but 95% of the time there are solutions to these; such 
 as muting the player or restarting your connection for these 2. The game is great because almost 
 every computer can run it. Its requirements are light and you'll still be able to gain maximum 
 experience out of it. Counter-Strike 1.6 is the best modification to come out from the Half-Life 
 engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BogeymanX
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  This game takes a long time to actually get the feel of the game, but after you learn it, it becomes 
 an instant favorite. 
  
  Its awesome how you are able to choose from many weapons including an AK-47, an MP5, and many others, 
 but it also allows you take your enemies (or even allies) weapons off the floor if you are trying 
 a gun for the first time, or you don't have enough money to buy a better weapon.
  
  The money was a great part of it, but it really ticks you off when you don't have enough to buy 
 your favorite weapon. The money system is good because you don't just get for killing, but also 
 for completing objectives.
  
  The many objectives within the game allow you to have endless hours of fun, at a non-stop rate. 
 Every round is different then the next. Although, it gets quite annoying when you're shooting at 
 someone for like 5 minutes, then a friend comes out and takes the winning shot.
  
  This game should have had also had a singleplayer mode for all the people that like to just shoot 
 people without someone else pop out and shoot you.
  
  Very nice game overall, with one major error. Valve is doing a great job with games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christian030695
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Intro:
  Counter-Strike is a (often exclusively) online multi-player fps. This being a online shooter, you 
 cant expect much story or plot. And you don't get any, really. CS is one of the most pure and addicting 
 fps on the market, and for the Steam price of 10 dollars, Id say some pocket change will get you 
 more than its worth.
  
  Gameplay:
  CS starts out with a basic premise. There are dudes, with guns, and you need to shoot them without 
 getting killed. However the way this is executed allows elaboration and reward for the skilled. 
 Joining a server through the in game browser is painless, just click on a server and join. When 
 you enter the game, you will have to pick a team, the terrorists (T's) or the rightly named counter-terrorists 
 (CT's) . The team you choose has very little variation on abilities granted during the game, but 
 have opposite objectives simple enough to keep the game from becoming a game of team death-match.
 
  
  After you select your team, you are given a sum of money (which a admin can change) which can be 
 spent on guns and in-game items. This is where CS goes a little beyond the run-of-the-mill shooter. 
 CS has an economy where players often choose to manage their money. Some players completely buy, 
 while others simply decide to save for a sniper, or another big weapon. You are offered a large 
 variety of guns, but the chances are you will stick with your main rifle (decided by which team 
 you pick) , or a pistol of your choice (when saving) . You are offered a short amount of time on 
 most servers, used to buy guns. You will be immobile and unable to fire guns, however you may silence 
 your weapon if it has the option to do so. When the time runs out, its time to rack up some points, 
 whether it be killing, or following your objectives.
  
  CS uses realistic hit detection, so a bullet to the face will hurt more than shooting their toe 
 (still very painful) . The damage you take is realistic too. This means you could die from just 
 3 bullets when aimed at you properly. This encourages you to play cautious and somewhat intelligent 
 so as not to die. When you die, you are given the death penalty of a short waiting period, before 
 you may come back to life at the next round. At the next round all of the money you earned from 
 the round will be in your hands, and you can buy something new. Some may argue that this gives 
 the campers and baiters an advantage. But this is countered by the fact that you will earn some 
 money, even if you died within the first couple second of the round, or you lost the round.
  
  Graphics and Audio:
  CS is not a up-to-date game, and it lacks the shine and details of newer 
 games. But what remains is maps that are perfect in their own way. Rather than confusing the player, 
 the graphics are kept simple with a few neat details. This is also another advantage in a sense, 
 as a older computer will still run it fine. Audio is a key element all players should learn to 
 use, and a headset is a great advantage to finding your opponents before you see them. Overall, 
 I enjoy the simplicity of it all, while some shun upon the lower-tech styling. If you are one of 
 the later, go hug your DirectX 10 games some more, and enjoy them. But if you don't mind a few 
 rough edges here and there, you will find a world that adds enough flavor to keep things interesting 
 enough.
  
  Social Status:
  As I mentioned before, casual players will be able to enjoy some quick action, and may get a 'pub' 
 clan to play with, and get administrative rights to kick and ban people, as well as a variety of 
 other things. But those who go deeper, will find a community of CS tournaments and leagues. The 
 dedicated and hardcore may even become sponsored professionals. Professional teams even get their 
 own little fandom. Forming a team and signing up is easy, and with a dedicated team of 5, you can 
 go far. The best compete around the world for large cash prizes. If you enjoy playing for competition, 
 then sign up in leagues and play matches often. Play hard, and you will be rewarded.
  
  Final Notes:
  You can go find computer AI if you would like to play at home. I recommend zbots 
 (google it you lazy person!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Deer-Hunter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 4:58 pm PT
Review:  For me counterstrike is complicated. Back in the good old days when I used to play games for 7+ 
 hours a day this game was at its best. After about 1 year it starts to get old but this wont make 
 you stop playing it from time to time. Sometimes when I want a taste of the good old days I would 
 download this game from steam. Its nice because if you want to remove the game from your computer 
 you can always install it later through steam. Just remember your account information. There have 
 been times when I installed it for a few days and then uninstalled it the next day because after 
 playing it for about 4 years you start to think am I wasting my life yet? The game always immerses 
 me and I cant seem to stop playing when there is some intense match going. If you have never played 
 this or you have been taking a break from it then please give it another go because it will be 
 worth it. And now please allow me to introduce to you a lesson in physics. It is very interesting 
 so please read and enjoy.
  
  Physics is all around us. It is in the electric light you turn on in the morning; the car you drive 
 to work; your **** cell phone, CD player, radio, and that big plasma TV set you got for Christmas. 
 It makes the stars shine every night and the sun shine every day, and it makes a baseball soar 
 into the stands for a home run.
  
  Physics is the science of matter, energy, space, and time. It explains ordinary matter as combinations 
 of a dozen fundamental particles (quarks and leptons) , interacting through four fundamental forces. 
 It describes the many forms of energysuch as kinetic energy, electrical energy, and massand the 
 way energy can change from one form to another. It describes a malleable space-time and the way 
 objects move through space and time. There are many fields of physics, for example: mechanics, 
 electricity, heat, sound, light, condensed matter, atomic physics, nuclear physics, and elementary 
 particle physics. Physics is the foundation of all the physical sciencessuch as chemistry, material 
 science, and geologyand is important for many other fields of human endeavor: biology, medicine, 
 computing, ice hockey, televisionthe list goes on and on.
  
  A physicist is not some geek in a long white coat, working on some weird experiment. Physicists 
 look and act like you or me. They work for research laboratories, universities, private companies, 
 and government agencies. They teach, do research, and develop new technologies. They do experiments 
 on mountaintops, in mines, and in earth orbit. They go to movies and play softball. Physicists 
 are good at solving problemsall kinds of problems, from esoteric to mundane. How does a mirror 
 reflect light? What holds an atom together? How fast does a rocket have to go to escape from earth? 
 How can a worldwide team share data in real time? (Solving this last problem led physicists to 
 invent the World Wide Web.)
  
  Mechanics is an important field of physics. Developed by Sir Isaac Newton in the 17th century, 
 the laws of mechanics and the law of gravity successfully explained the orbits of the moon around 
 the earth and the planets around the sun. They are valid over a large range of distances: from 
 much less than the height of an apple tree to much more than the distance from the earth to the 
 moon or the sun. Newtons laws are used to design cars, clocks, airplanes, earth satellites, bridges, 
 buildingsjust about everything, it seems, except electronics.
  
  Electricity is another example of physics, one that you may experience as a spark when you touch 
 a doorknob on a dry winter day. The electrical attraction of protons and electrons is the basis 
 for chemistry. Magnetism is another force of nature, familiar to us from refrigerator magnets and 
 compasses. In the 19th century, James Clerk Maxwell combined electricity and magnetism. He showed 
 that light is an electromagnetic wave that travels through empty space. (Waves had always required 
 a medium, for example, water is the medium for ocean waves.) Other electromagnetic waves besides 
 light also travel through empty space; hence radio signals can reach us from a Mars explorer. Maxwells 
 theory also showed that electromagnetic waves travel with the same speed (the speed of light) , 
 even if the person who sees it is moving. This is in conflict with Isaac Newtons principle of 
 relativity, which said a trains headlight beam would have one speed as seen by the engineer and 
 a different speed as seen by a person watching the train go by. Newton and Maxwell could not both 
 be right about this matter, and in 1905, Albert Einstein resolved the conflict by allowing space 
 and time to change, depending on motion. His special theory of relativity predicted that an object 
 passing by would look shorter and a passing clock would run slower. These changes are too small 
 to notice unless the object is moving very fastNewtons laws work just fine at the speeds of ordinary 
 moving objects. But space really does shrink and time really does expand for particles moving at 
 speeds near the speed of light (300,000 kilometers per second) . Another remarkable consequence 
 of special relativity is the famous equation E=mc2, which says that mass is just another form of 
 energy. This equivalence of mass and energy is the source of the energy that comes to earth as 
 sunlight. In the intense heat at the core of the sun, four hydrogen nuclei fuse into one helium 
 nucleus and the mass difference is converted into radiant energy, which emerges as sunlight. E=mc2 
 is also responsible for the release of energy from fission of uranium in a nuclear reactor, and 
 this energy is used around the world to make large amounts of electric power.
  
  Einstein went on to replace Newtons theory of gravity with his general theory of relativity, which 
 says that space and time are changed not only by speed, but also by the presence of matter. Imagine 
 space-time as a large sheet of rubber, and set a bowling ball on the sheet; it will be dimpled 
 near the ball. A tennis ball rolled slowly near the bowling ball will curve around it and may settle 
 into an orbit, just as the earth orbits the sun. Today, the general theory of relativity is well-tested 
 and is used to accurately determine the location of your car if you have a GPS (Global Positioning 
 System) device.
  
  Newtons laws also break down on the tiny distance scales of atoms and molecules, and must be replaced 
 by the theory of quantum mechanics. For example, quantum mechanics describes how electrons can 
 only travel around the nucleus of an atom in orbits with certain specific energies. When an electron 
 jumps from one of these orbits to another, the atom will absorb or emit energy in discrete bundles 
 of electromagnetic radiation. Because the energies of different states of an atom are known with 
 high precision, we can create highly accurate devices such as atomic clocks and lasers.
  
  Quantum mechanics is also necessary to understand how electrons flow through solids. Materials 
 that normally do not conduct electric current can be made to conduct when doped with atoms of 
 a particular element. This is how we make transistors, microscopic electrical on-off switches, 
 which are the basis of your cell phone, your iPod, your PC, and all the modern electronics that 
 has transformed our lives and our economy.
  
  There are still profound questions in physics today: what are the mysterious dark matter and energy 
 that make up most of the universe? Are there more than three dimensions of space? The more we learn 
 about physics, the more it will help us every day, and the better we will understand our place 
 in the universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roboy_the_GG
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  Counter-Strike 1.6 is by far the leader of online competitive FPS games. Even with its last generation 
 graphics, it continues to acquire new players year after year, with one of the largest communities 
 overall of any online game ever made (besides the MMOs, of course) . There is no single-player campaign 
 with CS, which isn't a flaw whatsoever. An odd expansion, Condition Zero, which arguably degraded 
 the fun of CS 1.6, included a campaign, which turned out to be an unfruitful and boring experience. 
 The multiplayer of CS is near unmatched by any game to date - by itself, playing in pub servers 
 is fun and doesn't get boring. Then you can join clans, play with your clan to scrimmage another, 
 or join a league (such as CAL) . Once you join a server, you are given the choice to either join 
 the Terrorist team, or the Counter-Terrorist team, each with their own unique weapons. As you begin 
 the round, you are given a limited time to buy your equipment using VGUI menus, buying items such 
 as kevlar, primary and secondary ammunition, and weapons. As the round begins, depending on the 
 game type, the Terrorists will either have to make their way to a bomb site and plant a C4, defending 
 it until it explodes. The Counter-Terrorists must defend both bomb sites effectively and defuse 
 the bomb should it be planted. The other game type is with hostages, with the Terrorists on the 
 defensive as the Counter-Terrorists attempt to rescue the hostages and bring them back to a designated 
 safe zone. You may be thinking - Only two game modes? That's it?! , but ask any veteran CS player 
 and they will tell you these two game modes will never grow old, even after years of playing. CS 
 1.6 is definitely worth a buy if you have the money, and with the graphics threshold so low, almost 
 any current PC can run it without problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiNet
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  This game has a wide variety of action from bombing your foes with c4 to knifing someone in the 
 back, but it still lacks graphics, maybe thats why they invented CS source, but 1.6 is old school. 
 Its one of the best PC games I've played and the only one i never put down, cause every massively 
 online game gets boring once in a while but not this one. Some might think people quit PC games 
 because of those online jerks that just keep ticking you off, but not in this one, when one 'em 
 calls you a stupid idiot for not planting the bomb you can just shoot 'em (if friendly fire is 
 on) or you can just switch teams and shoot 'em till he gets pissed. The objective to a normal counter 
 strike gameplay are to, if you are terrorist, plant the bomb and if you are a counter terrorist 
 you can try to prevent them from plating the bomb. After a few years this game invented a few good 
 mods, like knifing, gun games- but i won't tell you all of 'em, find out yourself and experience 
 a true game. Surprisingly this game doesn't get a perfect 10 since its lack of graphics, my overall 
 score for this game is a 9.5, still good. :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KurialGod
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  The Gameplay in this game is simple. Counter strike is divided into 2 teams, Counter-Terrorists, 
 and Terrorists. Any map with the de_ at the beginning means that Terrorist must plant the bomb 
 at either bombsite A, or B. Any map with the cs_ at the beginning means that the Counter-Terrorists 
 must save the hostages. Any map with the as_ at the beginning means that the Counter-Terrorists 
 must escort the VIP to the VIP escape place, and the Terrorists must kill the VIP in order to win.
 
  
  The Graphics isn't as good as the Gameplay. The graphics are not beautiful or anything but good 
 enought to play.
  
  The Sound is ok. Each gun you buy makes a different sound and the radio are pretty useful to people 
 who are lazy to type in things. They are very simple and the footsteps could be your way to succes.
 
  
  The Value is ok. If you buy this game at steam, it's only $9.99. I think this game isn't expensive.
 
  
  Overall I think this game is greta, because I've played this over a year untill Counter-Strike: 
 Source came out. I hope you guys will enjoy this game as much as I do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grizzlyman93
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 18, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  This game is excellent. I have so much fun everytime i play it. Singleplayer is pretty hard but 
 multiplayer is awesome. Why? Because it isnt that hard! This is a definite must buy. As for CS 
 its fun too. I cant wait to get Counter-Strike: Source. This game proves that graphics arent EVERYTHING 
 considering they suck. But definitely a cool game. This will always be a classic. Get this excellent, fun, 
 genre-defining game. You wont be dissapointed. I'm sure that CS: Source will be just as good or 
 better. I am getting it soon and you can expect a good review for that one too!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbking13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  This game was originally released in November of 2000, then Half-Life was superior in single player 
 off-line play because Counter Strike lacked a single player feature. And although Half-Life is 
 an amazing game, yet i prefer Counter-Strike over it any day. First off the game-play does have 
 some flaws in the physics, but that doesn't take much, if anything, off the game-play. The online 
 mode is easy to manipulate, just double click a server and it does the rest. Another great feature 
 is the in-game voice chat, which many PC games lacked at the time. You can also turn this option 
 off, if theres any annoying 8-year olds that sound like they should be in time-out. Some games 
 like Counter-Strike Source, the newer more 'realistic' version of the original Counter-Strike, 
 is good but not nearly as fun as the original. In Counter-Strike Source it takes just one head-shot 
 with a weak gun to kill an enemy, which makes it too easy to get kills, and too hard to stay alive. 
 The graphics in this game are one of the only things that bring this game down. Being released 
 in 2000 its not going to have Oblivion graphics or anything near that for that matter. Even if 
 you have a $2000 gaming computer, this game could make you hurl all over your new wireless keyboard. 
 But for the rest of us these graphics are bearable, but not satisfying. The newer Counter-Strike 
 Source has very nice graphics but like I said before is not nearly as fun as the original. Theres 
 not much to say about the sound. Its mediocre but still very helpful, because if you have a headset 
 or headphones, you can hear footsteps of enemies coming. Though they can do the same to you, there 
 is a nice option by holding the 'walk' key (default is shift) they cant hear you coming. Other 
 than that the firing of guns is semi-realistic but not amazing. Value. Value is a key word in describing 
 Counter-Strike. Currently you can instantly download it off Valve's Steam. An even better aspect 
 is that it costs an easy 10 bucks!!! And it comes with Counter-Strike: Condition Zero (a slightly 
 different game, with single player that is played just like online games on the same maps) and 
 Counter-Strike: Condition Zero Deleted Scenes (a single player only game but its not played like 
 the online games of the other two versions. its more like a storyline but i haven't played it much.) 
 Also the online play is four letters, F R E E. All in all this is a definite must have for any 
 PC gamer, being only 10 bucks with off0line play. It is one of the funnest and best games i have 
 ever played. I'm surprised it's not still being showered with awards and commemoration. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nascarfan123
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 23, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Its hard to believe that Counter-Strike, CS, was originally just a Half-Life mod made by college 
 students considering how successful the game is. It spawned Counter-Strike: Condition Zero, CS: 
 CZ, which was nothing more than just a small graphical update; Counter-Strike Source, CS: S, which 
 is a remake of the game with the source engine used by Half-Life 2; and also a version of this 
 game on the XBOX. Even with all of these different versions of the game CS is still the most popular 
 of the three.
  
  Counter-Strike is a face-paced, first person tactical shooter that focuses a lot on teamwork more 
 than what most multiplayer games would and is one of the best multiplayer games for the PC. There 
 are two teams in CS: Terrorists and Counter-Terrorists. While there were originally many different 
 objective types there are now only two objective types that are played in CS. The first is defusing 
 event where the Terrorists have to carry a bomb to one of two bombsites in the map, and when they 
 get there they have to plant it and it will eventually destroy the objective. The Counter-Terrorists 
 have to defend the bombsites or if the bomb is planted they have to defuse the bomb before it explodes. 
 The other objective type is hostage rescue. There the Counter-Terrorists have to rescue hostages 
 that are being guarded by the Terrorists and then escort them back to safety. There are only two 
 ways for a team to win a round: completing the objective or killing off everyone on the opposing 
 team. Counter-Strike is one of the few games where there is a penalty for dieing and you have to 
 wait for the next round to start before you can spawn again. Dont worry; the rounds in CS arent 
 long as they usually last only a couple of minutes at the most.
  
  Counter-Strike offers a wide variety of weapons for players to use; some are exclusive to Terrorists 
 or Counter-Terrorists. Usually whatever weapon is exclusive to one team has its own counterpart. 
 For example, the Terrorists get the ak-47 while the Counter-Terrorists get the m4a1. That being 
 said the weapons range from pistols, shotguns, sub machine guns, rifles, machine guns, and equipment 
 which is items like grenades or armor. All of this is obtained to the player by buying them at 
 the beginning of a round. Counter-Strike has its own money system and players can get money by 
 doing things like killing an enemy, winning the round, or completing the objective. However they 
 can lose money by doing things like killing hostages or teammates. So a sniper rifle is more expensive 
 than a pistol and sometimes it takes a couple of rounds before a player can buy one. Also, each 
 player can only carry one primary weapon, one secondary weapon, a melee weapon, and equipment which 
 have its own limits. Not every weapon in the game has to be bought, both teams spawn with their 
 own secondary weapon. Sometimes players will also take weapons from people who have already died 
 and dropped their weapons. The weakest aspect of this is that it will take new players a long time 
 to buy weapons since most servers only allow 3-5 seconds to buy weapons and it also takes a while 
 to learn the buy menu system in the game.
  
  If you are a player who only likes to play games that are new or up-to-date in graphics and sound 
 then Counter-Strike will disappoint you. Youll be better off playing Counter-Strike: Source, if 
 you are not you will still be pleased by the sound of the game. All of the guns sound powerful, 
 which is what you will hear the majority of your time playing, and it makes the game sound good. 
 Other things, like the footsteps, dont sound too great and can get old really fast. After considering 
 that the game was made in 2000, its really good for a game thats almost 10 years old.
  
  The graphics in Counter-Strike are definitely the weakest aspect of the game. The game runs off 
 of the Quake engine which was used for Half-Life, and everything feels really boxy in the game. 
 You wont encounter too many objects are highly round in detail. This is usually what gets many 
 players to turn away and play Counter-Strike: Source or even possibly Condition Zero.
  
  Some of the fact, if not a large part, that Counter-Strike has been around for so long has been 
 thanks to the modding community. There are hundreds of mods, thousands of custom weapon and player 
 models, and thousands of custom made maps. This has led into new game types and more variety if 
 gaming into Counter-Strike. Some of the most popular examples have to be fight yard maps where 
 the only objective is to kill the other team. Or knife arena maps where each player only gets to 
 use their knife. Theres also the popular Warcraft3 Mod, where players get special abilities like 
 invisibility or having higher jumps. Not to mention the Counter-Strike Death Match mod, which removes 
 the map objective and players respawn seconds after dieing and are automatically equipped with 
 weapons. The list just continues to go on and on and on.
  
  Counter-Strike is a difficult game to learn how to play. New players often have a hard time learning 
 because there are a lot of experienced players out there who have played the game since 2000. If 
 you get past that and learn how to play you will find countless hours go by as you continue to 
 play the game more and more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thaheo
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 23, 2007 2:48 am PT
Review:  Counter-strike (CS) is an exceptional game with addictive gameplay that has kept me (and will keep 
 other people) not so bored.
  
  The weapons have stats!! That's a first.. at least now you know which guns are just **** are which 
 guns are the good ones.. such as the Magnum Super Rifle (awesome sniper) and the Krieg Commando 
 (automatic sniper but kinda crap) .
  
  You get killed quick if you don't kill them quick. Average lifespan under enemy machine-gun fire: 
 2 seconds. You get caught in the enemy line of fire or a snipers scope and you can't really guarantee 
 survival.
  
  The multiplayer versions of CS are full of veterans and elites who are ready to show off their 
 long earned skills. If you're new to the game online, you'll become quickly frustrated by the amount 
 of pros and snipers you'll encounter. The flipside: you learn how to play just as good pretty damn 
 fast.
  
  The game doesn't need optimum graphics and a super RAM... it works okay on old comps.
  
  I 
 thoroughly recommend this game to anyone who is looking for games which would kill time when you're 
 hell bored xD 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilhawkkid182
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 11, 2007 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life was an awesome game, but sadly one thing that it did lack was a great foundation of multi-player 
 to make it more than an awesome single-player experience. Then came something glorious, something 
 that would define the online gaming industry forever. That game my friends is Counter Strike. A 
 game that started as a mod, but became something more, something great, something that will go 
 down in the history of video games. That is all this game is multi-player. So if you are spoiled 
 off of the Xbox version or Condition Zero than you are in trouble, because there are not bot matches 
 here. However, once you get the online working, than you will forget that you ever wanted to play 
 the single player experience that was on the newer versions. However, some story mode would be 
 nice, but that does not seem like it is going to happen any time soon. Graphically, this game looks 
 just like Half-Life, which is not a bad thing. All the maps have things about them that are different 
 from the others, and to be quite honest, the blood and guts that follows a super intense firefight, 
 does not look to bad either. This game is bloody, but that is how this game is supposed to be. 
 This game does look very good though considering what time it came out. I played the Xbox version 
 of the game before I played this so I had to laugh at the graphics, but then I got so into the 
 experience that I completely forgot about that part of this game. This game sounds great. Bullets 
 going everywhere and you teammates chatter if you have a headset. Not to mention there are a lot 
 of other sounds in this game. For example if you are doing good you might hear something like Head 
 Shot or Multi-kill , it doesn't really matter what you hear, because most of the time it means 
 that you are doing quite well. All the weapons have their own sound due to the type of weapon that 
 it is. This game does not sound bad at all. This game controls, just like Half-Life. The weapon 
 selection and everything else is the exact same as it was before, and to be honest that is not 
 a bad thing at all. The weapon-buying menu is not as confusing as the one on the Xbox so people 
 knew to the game will find it much easier. It is however hard to make a fast selection until you 
 have played enough to have your favorite weapon combinations memorized. This game has so many maps 
 and modes its crazy. This game in the modes and maps section puts the Xbox version to shame, as 
 that version only has bomb and hostage missions. This game has that and more. I think though that 
 the most fun way to play is to just play on a server, where you just go around doing a death-match 
 type game, and there is not a re-spawn limit. This will ensure some great times. This way to playing 
 is just like Unreal. If you are living for longer than a minute, than you my friend are cheating. 
 There is nothing more fun though than getting three head-shots and then dying right away afterwards. 
 As you can tell this game has lots of replay value. This game has lots of fun online multi-player 
 and the fact that if you know friends with the game and you can have a LAN party is pretty cool. 
 This game has so many levels and so many modes that you will be playing this game for ages. Not 
 to mention with features like Xfire and Steam you can find online friends and challenge them to 
 a match, or chat about things like when you will both be available to play a game. This game is 
 the best multi-player game of all time. This game is better than Halo and Goldeneye. This game 
 is just such a blast, you will be playing and before you know it, its midnight. Not to mention, 
 if you do not own it know, you can pick it up with all the other Half-Life mods, including Half-Life 
 itself for only 20 bucks!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SHAWNSHAMROCK
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 10, 2007 12:50 am PT
Review:  I love counter strike. I could play it for days straight and not get tired of it. I've been playing 
 sinve 2003 and still love it. The graphics, while obviously dated, are very impressive still. This 
 game is great in every aspect, and everyone should play this game at least once. This game is pretty 
 much the only multiplayer game i can stand to play. UT2004 gets old quick, as well as most other 
 multiplayer fps's. Did I mention how much I loved this game? The mods, such as wc3, are extremely 
 fun for when you want to change things up a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dudekiller2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 6, 2007 8:59 am PT
Review:  this game is old, but who cares? it's one of the most immersive online action games out there. 
 and its better than CS: Source in lost of ways.
  first, it has more maps and weapons. second, its more realistic. I highly recommend this game for 
 anyone who like realistic online shooters.
  All i can say is that this game flat-out rocks, is better than AA or any other online game, and 
 you need to go buy it now or ill storm into your house with a M4A1 and rip you to shreds XD. just 
 buy it. please. and im serious about the m4 thing, so i would buy it if i were you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maplestrikers
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 4, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: I just can't tell you how much fun it is playing this game. You buy guns, make up your 
 strategy and you shoot some people. It is very simple to play, but mastering it will take a few 
 years. It's worth playing and I bet you, you will get addicted to it and can't sleep for a week! 
 Graphics: Most people will think, what is this? Nothing in this game looks good. It's a rush, rush, 
 rush, work. Compare this to Half Life 2 this game is garbage. Well it's not. I got to admit the 
 graphics are not as good as Half Life 2 but could you see good enough to kill people and have fun? 
 Yes! Enjoy the game and don't complain about the graphics. If you really hate it, download some 
 models. Sound: Ahh, yes. The sound. Do you guys like to listen to music? Do you go up to your friends 
 and say, Yo, yo, yo wasup guys, heard the new song in the whatever band? The sounds are twice as 
 good as your music. It's addciting! Value: Do your parents think buying this game is a waste of 
 money? No! It's only around $10. The good thing is, you don't need to pay money once every month. 
 It's worth the money. Reviewer's Tilt: Overall impression, I really enjoy this game. No matter 
 how many times I get pwned or I pwn other people, it's still the best online FPS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norton158
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 2, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  In Half-Life: Counter-Strike (Come on, this is merely known as Counter-Strike 1.6, CS 1.6, CS...) 
 you will find a great bargain box (As of June 2nd, 2007) , including Counter-Strike: Deleted Scenes, 
 Counter-Strike: Condition Zero and the game itself, of course. This one posses a great gameplay, 
 from the time it was made it was quite a revolution and I would not fear giving it a 9 if we were 
 back to the 2001's (where this game gained even more popularity, in it's 1.5 version) , with fast 
 passed action, adrenaline and action. For that, you will only pay 10 bucks (US$ 10,00) and will 
 receive a 2 good/great games (CS 1.6, CS: CZ) . The other one, deleted scenes is only... a project 
 which went wrong and is huge to download, only packs a noob singleplayer campaign, and some regular 
 Counter-terrorism game plot) . The graphics, well for those who pakcs those big graphics card (those 
 people knows that they have it) , it may seen like Oh not this game graphics sux . Ok, the game 
 was made quite a long time ago, but it is still played by many thanks to the gameplay, and the 
 excellent value it posses. Just be sorry that, sometimes, the community is not likely to welcome 
 the beginners. What a pit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaming_man
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 1, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  This is one of the greatest mods ever made into a game. I never played FPS games before but my 
 cousin urged me to try it, now i love it. I highly recommend this to any fan of half life or SWAT 
 then i highly recommend this. Graphics: The graphics were good for the day they came out but now 
 they do look a bit rundown or flushed out. Sound: Guns sound cool but they are not great.
  
  Overall impression: This game was amazing for the time it was released and its still good now 
 but i urge you to get counter strike Source. Which is this game but better in every single way. 
 A real treat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nectheunholy
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 29, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Counter-Strike was one of the first computer games I ever really got addicted too. It was the first 
 First Person Shooter I got a chance to play online, and I found out I wasn't the only one who would 
 sometimes rush home to play some rounds before homework and dinner. Now, almost six-seven years 
 later since first discovering Counter-Strike, I still drop in for some rounds and just have fun. 
 After all, it we are talking about a game mod to one of the most highly acclaimed games in the 
 recent decade, so it had something to live up to (and that it did) .
  
  
  [Gameplay]
  From the first time I (im) patiently waited for the loading screen to enter a server, and even today 
 after leaving a server, I have always admired how simple the Gameplay of Counter-Strike is. You 
 are told this button does this, or that button does that. One thing I find that lets you really 
 be in control of your personal Gameplay is being able to customize the game to your needs. By this 
 I mean you can completely customize your keyboard to your needs and also customize the settings 
 to meet your needs. Although you are limited, setting up all these to meet your personal level 
 of excellence can really help the experience and fun factor. Beyond knowing how to buy your weapons 
 and supplies, switching weapons, and most importantly to point and aim, there isn't much asked 
 of you. An average player will learn all fundamentals of the game under an hour, and you'll be 
 begging for more after the first day. For giving such an easy game to play and understand, I salute 
 Valve and the Half-Life franchise.
  
  [Graphics]
  I will be honest here; Counter-Strike doesn't have the most breathe taking graphics and scenery, 
 heck most if it looks like cardboard backdrops. The point is, this isn't a game where you stand 
 around and enjoy how detailed those mountains are in the background, or how silly the player skins 
 are. The main focus is blowing your opponents head off and leaving nice blood stains all over that 
 not so appealing painting on the wall, or pathetic looking book. Although it sounds like I'm bashing 
 the graphics, they are surprisingly good considering what other games at the time looked like. 
 You do get a sense of realistic surroundings, and it ties into what your doing in the game pretty 
 good (i. e. storm a house in a city and rescue hostages, and the map has a marketplace, passage 
 ways and other aspects which makes it more realistic than other aim and shoot bang bang games) . 
 You really need to be picky if youre going to disapprove of this game solely on graphics. Graphics 
 aren't what makes this game great, they are just something to back the game up and make you appreciate 
 the efforts put forth. Once again, for making a great game with suitable graphics (even if they 
 aren't the best) , I salute Valve and the Half-Life team.
  
  [Sound]
  Like most games of its genre, you don't have background music playing. Yes, there is the jukebox 
 on cs_italy, but a simply command can block it out or by simply shooting it. Instead, you usually 
 have sound affects which relate to the maps environment and surroundings. For example, on de_prodigy 
 youre on a map which resembles a secret government facility. You can go outside, or stay in the 
 passageways and corridors of inside. When outside, you hear wind and animals now and than. When 
 inside, you hear sounds which resemble machines/computers running and also water flowing through 
 pipes. Although very soft and sometimes not easily heard to do gun fights, it does have a large 
 part in the game. I know I honestly don't want to run around and here nothing in the background, 
 it simply adds substance with sound affects, which are greatly used in this game.
  
  Counter-Strike supplies a fair list or real guns, which support realistic sounds. You don't find 
 many guns that sound the same when firing, and even the reloading sounds realistic. It is smart 
 they didn't try and use created sounds for guns like other franchises do, as it just wouldn't sound 
 right if you fired for M4 and it sounds like someone is blowing a party streamer. Overall the sound 
 department was a big factor in the game, even though it is seen as insignificant in the big scheme 
 of things.
  
  [Value]
  I and many others are still playing this game; I think that says enough right there. That is an 
 honest opinion, when you consider more realistic and breathe taking FPS games are out there, many 
 still pay homage to Counter-Strike. It is simply one of those games you will play until you can't 
 anymore due to whatever reasons. I know I certainly have high replay value for this game, and every 
 cent I paided for Half-Life to get Counter-Strike has certainly added up in value and than gone 
 far and beyond.
  
  [Tilt]
  What can I say beyond A fantastic game mod which has hooked millions to date. It truly has stood 
 the test of time to date . It has given me countless hours of entertainment, and it is just as 
 fun now as the first time I bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 26, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: This is the game that made counter strike source what it is today. Gameplay is fun choose 
 your team and weapon and go kill.
  Graphics: Very bad on todays standards but amazing in 2000 when this mod came out. Nice guns and 
 nice enviroments.
  Sound: ok sound guns are very very loud some half life 1 sounds implemnted into it as well
  Value: 
 Well it was free but they decided to charge 9 bucks for it
  Replayabilty: Some To high: This game is for the Counter Strike starter play it then pass on to 
 the new Counter Strike: Source
  
  The Good: ok gameplay
  The Bad: Some lag.. Bad graphics... Way to easy to get kills. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R3efer
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 25, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  Honestly this is the greatest FPS I have ever played and still to this day I play it. Most of the 
 fun comes from picking to be either a counter-terrorist or a terrorist. You can pick any weapon, 
 but they are a little different on each side. The terrorists get the AKs and CTs get M4s. One 
 of the most enjoyable things is of course killing the enemy, but you have to shoot right. With 
 that in mind, each weapon has different recoil and has different damage on the opponent. So if 
 you are new to the game, you will be killed in almost every round, because you do not know how 
 to use the weapons. This is definitely awesome if you are going to play on line and with your friends. 
 This is truly addictive and you must be warned!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Delta222
Rating: 1
Date: May 23, 2007 6:08 pm PT
Review:  This game is awful, regardless of what version. I started with CS when V.5 came out and would play 
 it along side its superior cousin, TFC. From the beginning the gameplay was simple, too simple. 
 Other than some maps that have an object, the game is just respawnless team deathmatch. The weapons 
 are extremely unbalanced, and with an aimbot and AWP the server is ruined. Because of the weapon 
 power, the game encourages camping, and nullifies any chance for a real firefight. Though it looked 
 decent way back when, compared to other artistically driven mods and games, CS is extremely drab.
 
  
  The sound was inferior to other mods at the time.
  
  This game is neither fun or semi-realistic, so it fails on all accounts, miserably.
  
  Stop 
 playing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hacker707
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 25, 2007 8:38 am PT
Review:  At first, counter strike started as a mod to half-life, then sierra re-released it as a stand-alone 
 game. I see it as the multiplayer part of hl 1.6. For people who have never heard of counter strike, 
 it is a multiplayer fps that puts two teams, terrorists and counter-terrorists, on a map and there 
 is an objective depending on the map you are playing. Either the ct's have to rescue hostages from 
 the t 's base and return them to your base, or the t's have to plant a bomb at a choice of two 
 bomb sites and the ct's have to try to defuse it before it goes off.
  
  If you look at my score for the game, i put graphics at a 6. I rated it a lower score because of 
 the character models. They are very poor and when you died, it lags for a second and the body drops 
 to the ground in a very poor style. Otherwise, if you can get past the not-so-modern graphics, 
 the game is very good. The gameplay is very good, the sound is decent, and it is good for it's 
 price ($10 on Valve's Steam) .
  
  So overall i would still play the game ( find a clan, it makes the game so much funner) i would 
 go and buy it. But if you can't get past the not-so-modern graphics , i would recommend, the newer 
 game in the series, Counter Strike: Source, which uses the new Half-Life 2 engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Talon124
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 16, 2007 9:43 am PT
Review:  This is one of the top 5 multiplayer games around. But if it was in the top 5 it would sit at 5 
 only. Simply because there is CS: S out which u can get for like an extra 10$. CS: S is just better 
 in every way with better graphics, realistic physics, buy options r better and u get smarter bots. 
 But when not compared to other games it is truley amazing. It is extremly addictive so addictive 
 that it could stop ppl from smoking, drinking and taking drugs, honestly. Instead if giving ppl 
 nicotine patches they should just give them CS. The system requirements aren't high either. I mean 
 a computer that uses hamsters to power it could run this. Gameplay is fun everytime (except from 
 when u keep on dying then u just wanna punch ur computer) and there are a wide selection of guns 
 that u can use to kill ur enemy. Team play..... to be honest there isn't much. I mean most ppl 
 go the same routes anyway but u don't see players cover each other and u know. Most ppl just go 
 there own ways and because the map isn't huge they just end up going with other players that happen 
 to take the same route. And talking about the maps they r all addictive even though half of them 
 aren't played. There will only be a few maps played such as DUst, Dust2, Aztec, Inferno and Italy 
 ( how sad I remember them : ( ) it sounds great too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billyboy800
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  It's been about six and a half years since the release of Counter-Strike, and it still keeps its 
 rank of most popular online game in the world. With its extremely great sound, solid graphics (For 
 its time) , and overall addicting gameplay, there shouldn't really be a reason that it isn't.
  
  Gameplay:
  You start out in Counter-Strike by selecting a server from the staggeringly large 
 list, then you choose your team; the Counter-Terrorists or the Terrorists. The goal of the CT's 
 is to rescue hostages or defuse bombs planted by the Terrorists, and the goal of the T's is to 
 guard those hostages and plant those bombs and make sure the CT's don't get near it. You begin 
 your round by spawning in T or CT spawn, and you buy your weapons and equipment while you're there. 
 You then move out and attempt to complete your objective/kill the entire enemy team. Even thought 
 it sounds simple, it is extremely addictive. I give gameplay an 8/10.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are very solid (For its time) , but I felt as if they could've been better, due to 
 the visuals I saw in Half-Life. The Gold Src engine had way more potential. I give graphics an 
 8/10.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is very realistic. When someone is approaching, you'll usually hear footsteps, and this 
 should be able to give you and edge. I don't really know what the guns sound like in actual life, 
 but they sound very realistic, which adds much more enjoyment to the game. Overall, I give sound 
 a 9/10.
  
  Value:
  Currently, you can purchase the Counter-Strike Anthology from stores for about twenty bucks, and 
 it comes chock full of games, which is a lot of bang for your buck. You can also buy CS off of 
 Steam, Valve's content delivery service, for about ten dollars, if you're only interested in playing 
 CS.
  
  Overall, this game is fantastic. You'll be playing this game for years (I have :P) , and you'll 
 be satisfied everytime you get that headshot. Go out and pick it up now, and start getting in on 
 the fun you've been missing out on for over six years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davorg22
Rating: 7.3
Date: Apr 12, 2007 10:53 am PT
Review:  The computer controlled bots have very good AI and do not fail to present a good challenge, even 
 at low skill levels. There are very few options available in the game. Character creation is not 
 present and the only other single player mode available is the tutorial mode, useful if you strive 
 to learn how to complete both sides' objectives. But the selection is still a tried and true one, 
 and gives much to choose from. The game includes eighteen different maps. I think that game is 
 pretty good but needs improve. This game is stupid if you don't play it online because it rocks! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Terrorantula
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 28, 2007 11:23 pm PT
Review:  I don't have any numbers but it's pretty obvious that it is and it was innovative for it's time. 
 The game is still i believe the most played Online FPS and shows no real sign of being beat. What 
 makes this game sooo popular is the fact that it's easy to play but hard to master, simple is often 
 better than complex.
  
  It's very weird that noone else has gotten it as right as CS and not even CSS could shadow it because 
 of flaws in the gameplay. The guy that made this mod must be very happy with himself tbh lol.
 
  
  What makes the game sooo great aswel is you can change every texture and change every sound + customise 
 you sprays and creating your own maps is simple but fun and again hard to master and get it all 
 right. Being able to customise everything i think was just it's key to the success and thanx to 
 it being on the HL engine.
  
  Valve had great community support in the early days but then they bought it all out and went corprate 
 and evil lol.
  
  This game is the number 1 played pro FPS game for clans and ALOT of money. It was designed for 
 5 vs 5 and justc an't be beat really.
  
  The game is sooo finely balanced and perfect and thats where CSS went soo wrong because it got 
 all the balance wrong and ruined alot of things.
  
  IMO it's the best Online FPS ever made and wont ever be beaten.
  
  + I'd also like to add that 
 the buying system was never really done before and it perfected it first time! CS just did something 
 different that most online FPS games will be taking ideas from. I find it strange how more havn't 
 so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avp2167
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 14, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Counter Strike
  
  A miracle of the FPS genre.
  
  This game may very well be the top FPS multiplayer game in the world.
  
  The gameplay is awesome, 
 Graphics not bad, and NO LAG!!
  
  This game is worth buying, and if you like buying AKs and shooting counter terrorists ot the opposite.. 
 The gun shop is amazing. There are AKs, M60s, M16 s SMGS, desert eagles! AND ALL OTHER TOTAL PWNAGE 
 WEAPONS OF MASS KILLING AND FUNYASTICNESS!
  
  But there is a downfall..... DRUMROOOOOOOOOOOL
  
  NOTHING!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  THIS IS THE GAME 
 FOR YOU!!
  
  (i know, i know. Short review... SUE ME) )
  
  lol, i promise ill write longer reivews next time but right now im tired and i think my review 
 is enough to explain how wonderfull this game is!!
  
  BUY IT NOW!! Through a store near you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 12, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  I write this review after playing CS back when it started as a mod, and with the release, as well 
 as its updates. My review is based on how the game was presented upon release, and my overall score 
 reflects this. As I write I have watched my step-brothers just fall in love with CS when it was 
 a mod and when it was released.. I however never found much of an interest in it since I was too 
 involved with Team Fortress Classic so much to even care about CS. I give it a good nod as a tactical 
 FPS game (or mod) but I still feel a bit sketchy when playing this game online. This however does 
 not affect my review since you saw what score I have given it. I must say that is is one multiplayer 
 game that will last for years to come and perhaps further. CS when released was a great game to 
 build a strong lasting clan with and not have to worry about not finding enough players like it 
 has been with other games like TFC or MOHAA. (Two games in which I clanned ) CS has outlasted the 
 competition of UT99 - 2004. Oulasted ET, RTCW, Quake 3 Arena/Team Arena, Quake 2, Quake 1. Doom 
 3, Doom 2, Doom 1 from its player bases at time of the retail release. Just as WoW will probably 
 be played for years (perhaps a good decade) with enough players.. CS will double that longevity. 
 I must give CS high marks for what this simple mod has accomplished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jus2nyce
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 10, 2007 7:07 pm PT
Review:  A fast paced shooter, that introduces the funnest and some of the most original gaming mods out 
 there. Put this all together you'll have one of the best shooters for the PC platform.
  
  This game requires one of the lowest 'system requirements' for a good gaming experience. The value 
 you get out of this one game alone is still unprecedented. I had this game for over 3 years and 
 still haven't even played Half-Life game included. I've been playing the online multi-player forever. 
 A easy pick-up and easy learn the game brings new experience into the online shooter.
  
  Online with this game is what's it's all about, since it's release in early 2003 (if I'm not mistaken) 
 still there are over millions of players subscribed to this game. Many mods are to be downloaded 
 and played. The game play of this Counterstrike is pretty simplistic and fast paced. There are 
 2 sides, Terrorist (Ts) and Counter-Terrorist (CTs) the CTs are to disarm the Ts in anyway possible. 
 Like disarming bombs to saving hostages, the game brings the feeling of suspense.
  
  Again a game that a fanatic of the shooter genre should own, this game value is unprecedented. 
 Recommended to all players looking for a good, fun, interactive experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Guardian
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Counter Strike, is one of the greatest Half life mods to date. (That is with the exception of Day 
 of Defeat, personally its still my favorite HL mod)
  Counter Strike, gives the player a choice, to fight for terrorists, or the Counter Terrorists, 
 the only main difference between the two is the character models, and weaponry.
  Counter Strike (Often reffered to as CS) Offers very impressive and addictive gameplay. The desire 
 to buy better weaponry makes the player work harder to defeat his enemies to earn money, and by 
 having only one life per round demands the players to work together to annihilate the opposing 
 team much like a real organization would.
  With a large ammount of very different maps, and many different weapons, and having thousands of 
 different players with different tactics and abilities makes the game very unrepedative, a major 
 plus in my eyes.
  
  Overall Counter Strike is a great game, and its very cheap, its about $10 if you buy from steam 
 now, seeing as its a bit out dated, but hundreds of people, like me, still play it, so its well 
 worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ltjg_urbas
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 29, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  Counter-Strike is simply the game that started it all. Anyone who plays FPS probably plays CS, 
 or at least started out on it. It enevr gets old. It's always a greta game to play either online 
 or on a LAN with friends. Valve took the general idea behind doom and applied it to a game with 
 better graphics and a greater variety of weapons. The many expansion packs and updated versions 
 of CS have brought along better graphics, more weapons, and new features, but it all goes back 
 to v1.6. This is game is a greta classic that will be played by gamers for years to come. Even 
 with the release of next-generation systems like XBOX360, Wii, and PS3, nothing can ever replace 
 CS and the position it holds in the gaming world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meconate
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 25, 2007 5:23 am PT
Review:  If you've never played Counter-Strike and want to know what all the fuss is about, this is the 
 version you need to buy. Half-Life: Counter-Strike has up to 7000 servers up and running online 
 and has many clan matches.
  
  This game still has the traditional Counter-Strike rules, Counter-Terrorists vs Terrorists, Demolition 
 and Hostage Rescue. The online modes have game types such as Deathmatch and Sniper and Etc.
  
  The Bots on this game are very intelligent, possibly the most intelligent Bots you'll find 
 on any game today. They talk and say things like 'I've just heared something, ill go check it out' 
 and 'He's up in the window!' and each other Bot will respond to him and shoot the guy in the window.
 
  
  Half-Life: Counter-Strike also allows you to download content off other online, lets say they have 
 a map that you don't have, if you wish to join their match, you will download it staight from them 
 and you will keep that map too.
  
  There are many downloads too such as other skins to download and thousands of maps to download, 
 it's very hard to get bored of this huge game.
  
  So if you want a game with awesome online play and with almost everything customisable (including 
 the game settings) then just download the Counter-Strike Mod or buy the retail version now! Counter-Strike 
 Rocks! So get used to it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MightyLubu
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2006 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Whats fun in this game ???
  Well , this game supposed to be play with other player on LAN or Internet ,this is the way this 
 game meant to be played . I dont have any better word 4 this game ,this game is just plain best 
 of FPS of all time ,till now ,no thing can beat it . If u play it with ur good teammate ,ur friend 
 ,u will realized this is the great game of all time . U cant just rush in ,go rambo style ,its 
 the old-school ,no one play like it . Now we do it with Tactics . As u can see ,this game contain 
 fast paced action with need a fast finger to pull off trigger , need shooting skill to nail the 
 enemy , and its need a tactic ,because u alone cannot afford the victory of ur team even u are 
 God-like . About Graphic, oh, come on man ,this game release on 2000 ,u can see ,at that moment ,this 
 game has the very impressive graphic look ,about sound ,one word : GREAT . This game has an endless 
 replay value : u get killed by someone ,no problem ,next round ,have some revenge ,and its all 
 going on like that ,endless stream of Action ,Tactics . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XthemastaX
Rating: 7.1
Date: Dec 23, 2006 10:12 am PT
Review:  This game is just not suiting me well because the cd key did'nt work it's just a classic game and 
 it wasted my time so its a 7.1. game play is a fair the graphics is just like half-life. Hn this 
 game is not my style and sounds are just right. In Fact, It's just right about the sounds and the 
 game play not the graphics or textures. I only like the headshot! Sound alot because I like headshots 
 alot. I only have 1.6. with no cd key ok? Valve your doin a good job on counter-strike plus this 
 game is well kind of great I only have the not steam version of it. Stupid cd key won't work at 
 all. Geez this game kind of has errors you know and you see this game crashes sometimes when I play 
 it alot and alot and alot. Oh well this game gets its stars up to a 9 out of 10 stars. Counter strike 
 is a very impressive and engaging shooter, and a faithful follow-up to one of the greatest PC games 
 of all time. It always involves  Doug always says boom headshot! Don't 
 forget he destroys his computer and his keyboard alot and cusses alot and alot and alot and alot 
 and alot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wafflehead
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 20, 2006 3:16 pm PT
Review:  Words cannot explain how great this game is. Upon the release of Half-Life, I was privileged enough 
 to have this game (as well as Team Fortress Classic) come included with the game. I played both 
 A LOT more then I did with Half-Life which I felt no need in playing again after beating it and 
 the multiplayer left a lot to be desired. TFC brought me many great years of fun but like so many 
 great games in the past, it just mysteriously died out and now I am anticipating the release of 
 TFC2 next year. Counter-Strike, however, still has yet to die. Infact, it is a still ever growing 
 community and easily the most popularly played FPS out today and still will be for quite some time, 
 at least till CS 1.7 is released (if ever) . I began playing this amazing game from the day the 
 much anticipated Half-Life was released and haven't stopped since. I was what you would call a 
 *pubmaster* for several years where I'd just walk into a pub and have fun pwning noobs but for 
 pure enjoyment. The following years, a friend and I got into competitive play and joined CALeague. 
 The rest, I guess you can say is history. I've played many seasons of CAL and yes, I've been out 
 of CAL-O for several seasons (only played open for two seasons) .
  
  All in all, this game is still easily the best FPS out there even after 7 years. Pick it up, and 
 you won't be disappointed. Do not be fooled about CS: Source, thinking it is better or that it 
 is the future of Counter-Strike simply because it is newer. It's a really, really bad game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miklifton
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Counter-Strike is just so fun and so addicting that its almost hard to explain. You can play as 
 either terrorist or counter terrorist. The terrorist's job is to either plant a bomb at the bomb 
 site or on some maps you will have to guard your hostages and prevent the CT from rescuing them. 
 You have many choices of weapons. You buy weapons at the beginning of each round. You can also 
 buy grenades and other useful things. The best way to play is probably with a bunch of people on 
 one big map. The only bad thins is that when you die you will have to wait for the next round to 
 play again. So just don't die. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dutch_Mix
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 5, 2006 8:36 pm PT
Review:  When Half-Life made its debut on the PC back in 1998, a copious amount of multiplayer modifications 
 were released alongside it. Some were good, and some were bad. But one in particular was outstanding.
 
  
  Counter Strike is team-based action game that splits teams into groups of terrorists, and counter-terrorists. 
 The game-modes in Counter Strike differ slightly from the norm in that theres no Capture the Flag 
 or King of the Hill to be found. Instead, Counter Strike takes a more realistic approach to things. 
 For example, one game-type has the terrorist team taking hostages while the counter-terrorist team 
 tries to eliminate all the terrorists, or rescue the hostages.
  
  One common saying is that you win and lose as a team, and Counter Strike makes this lesson painfully 
 clear to beginners. Only a few bullets are needed to put you down and the moment you die. Its 
 over, you wont re-spawn until your team is either neutralized or they complete their objective. 
 This makes team unity an absolute must. If you try to take down the enemy team Rambo style, youre 
 going to be pushing up daisies faster than you can blink. Communication plays a vital role in Counter 
 Strike. Both teams are given radios which allows for each player to send out pre-recorded messages 
 that can relay important data to the rest of their team. Need some covering fire? By simply pressing 
 the X key, youll bring up a quick list of commands that you can issue to your squad.
  
  One of the more interesting aspects of Counter Strike is cash. After each round is completed, each 
 team is rewarded cash based on how well they performed in that round. If the terrorist team successfully 
 planted the bomb at their target, then the terrorists will receive additional funds at the start 
 of the next round. Likewise, if the counter-terrorists neutralize all of the terrorists before 
 they can arm the bomb, theyll receive an increase in the amount of cash they receive. Once the 
 next round begins, a menu screen will pop up, allowing you to buy weapons and equipment. One of 
 the minor problems with this is that the game can get unbalanced if one team wins several rounds 
 in a row. Thankfully, most Counter Strike servers have an auto-team balancer which helps keep each 
 team on a level playing field.
  
  Weapons are listed under several categories: Pistols, shotguns, semi-automatics, and rifles. Each 
 weapon has its own pros and cons. The Desert Eagle, for example can take down an enemy with one 
 well-placed shot to the head, but its magazine can only hold several rounds of ammunition. You 
 can also opt to purchase equipment such as: grenades, kevlar, and additional ammunition. Also, 
 just like their real world counterparts, the weapons in Counter Strike arent particularly accurate 
 when youre firing at an enemy a hundred yards away while running as fast as you can.
  
  Graphically, Counter Strike isnt great. But what can you expect from an eight-year old game? The 
 textures of the character models look blocky and have an unfinished feel to them. The environments 
 in the distance look almost as if theyve been cut out of a poorly drawn painting. Grenades detonate 
 with all the explosiveness of a cheap firecracker. And youll also see more than a few bodies sticking 
 through walls, doors, and other various parts of the environments. But it isnt all bad. Each one 
 of the weapons looks like it has been meticulously detailed to look just like its real-world counterpart. 
 Smoke grenades are also well done, as the cloud of smoke can become so dense that youll often 
 get lost stumbling around in the haze.
  
  The audio of Counter Strike is positively terrific! The sounds of gunfire are so clear and recognizable, 
 that you can actually hear the individual sounds that each gun makes in a firefight. Some of the 
 cheaper weapons are louder and can give away your position more easily, while the more expensive 
 weapons can attach silencers. Also, Counter Strikes audio is filled with small, subtle touches 
 that can often save your skin provided youre paying attention. If you run, youll make quite a 
 racket allowing the enemy to almost know where you are, and where youre going. Likewise, if you 
 sneak your way around the environment, youll be virtually undetected.
  
  You'd think that eight years after its release, there would be almost no one still playing Counter 
 Strike. Well, fortunately for you, this isnt the case. There are still hundreds of thousands of 
 gamers still playing Counter Strike to this day, which allows you to easily find a game and start 
 playing. Counter Strike also has one of the most popular map building communities of all time. 
 Thanks to the ingenious flexibility of the original Half-Life game engine; there are dozens upon 
 dozens of fantastic user-created maps out there for you to play around with, which will keep the 
 action fresh and exciting. One of the best things about Counter Strike is that you dont need a 
 high-end computer to play it. Even a five year old PC can max out the in-game settings. And did 
 I mention that the game is free? All you need is an original copy of Half-Life and youre good 
 to go.
  
  Overall, Counter Strike is one of the best multiplayer first-person shooters youll ever play. 
 Its fast paced, blisteringly exciting, and will have you one the edge of your seat. Grab a rifle, 
 some kevlar, and maybe even a few grenades. Youre going to need them, soldier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leredab
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 29, 2006 5:20 pm PT
Review:  It has been over 5 years since Counter Strike first appeared, but it still is awesome. The best 
 online FPS ever! In this team-based game, there are two teams, Counter Terrorists, and Terrorists. 
 You can win a round by killing everyone in the opposite team. Or you can do the objective. Like 
 the terrorists, in some maps, they have to plant a bomb. The C. T have to deffuse the bomb. In some 
 other maps, the C. T have to rescue hostages and the terrorist must stop them.
  
  Something I love about this game is the fact that you have to buy your weapons. You get money every 
 round, whenever you rescue hostages, and when you kill someone. There are a lot of weapons: shotguns, 
 machine guns, sniper rifles, grenades... ect...
  
  Graphically, I must say that its quiet old by now. But who cares! SINCE THE GAME IS INSANE!! The 
 sounds are well done. You can talk with other players or chat.
  
  If you have never played this game, GET IT!!! It is only 10 dollars at www. steam. com (thats where 
 you can play it too) . If you think its too old, get Counter Strike SOURCE, which is the same thing 
 with better sounds and graphics. Personnaly, I prefer this one. Just the plain Counter Strike. 
 Because it is the original thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -thr33
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 29, 2006 9:05 am PT
Review:  6 Years old, but still an amazing game.
  
  I've been playing the game for around 2 years now, It never got boring since i started, still the 
 same rush when your in a 3-1 situation, and still the same Fun.
  
  Gameplay - The Gameplay Is very simple, Terrorists (T) Vs Counter-Terrorists) Two types of main 
 maps maps CS and DE, both very simple.
  
  CS Maps - In Cs maps the Ct's (counter-terrorists) have to rescue hostages from a building and 
 the terrorists have to prevent the Ct's from rescuing them.
  DE Maps - In DE maps the terrorists have to plant a bomb at one of 2 bomb site, the ct's - obviously 
 - have to prevent the terrorists from planting the bomb.
  There are also plenty of other maps that people have custom made, and they aren't always DE or 
 CS, to name a couple: AIM, DM, FY, HE, SURF, and there are plenty of others.
  There are also a variety of guns in the game, To split the guns up there are around 5 different 
 sections, Pistol, Shotguns, Sub-Machine Guns, Rifles And Machine Guns, Each team has 4 guns that 
 only they can buy, T's: Galil ak47 and a Mac10 and a Auto-sniper,, Ct's:, Famas, M4a1, TMP and 
 a sg550 Sniper.
  All the guns may seem confusing, but once you start playing you'll get the hang of it.
  The Gameplay 
 may seem repetitive, but because maps have different routes, and you're playing against real life 
 people, the round can be very different to the last, making the gameplay very solid.
  
  Graphics/Sound:
  Even thought the game is 5 years old it still looks good, The player models 
 are good, and the gun models are very accurate also the mouths move when you talk!. The sounds 
 on the guns are very realistic. Footstep sounds are good because you can here the people coming 
 if everything is silent, You can stop people hearing your footsteps by walking (but this does slow 
 you down) .
  
  Difficulties: vary's widely, mainly because there are a lot of servers and, because you are playing 
 against real people, different players will be better, so you can be good at one point, then change 
 server and get your but handed to you, this does make it harder for new players, but with practice 
 you can get better.
  
  Value: there is a lot of replay value in this, i'm glad i paid for this game, and i'm sure if you 
 buy it you will too, it will never get boring.
  
  Overall:
  A brilliant game, worth all the money you pay, I would recommend it to any person who owns a PC 
 and wants a good game.
  
  BUY IT!!!. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperDumbGuy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 26, 2006 12:40 am PT
Review:  I have been playing Counter-Strike for over 4 years now and after all this time, I am still as 
 addicted to it as when I first got it. It may seem unreal but it's actually true. I have spent 
 hours after hours on this game and I intend to spend even more on it. Dont just take it from me 
 though; this game has been out for over 6 years now and it is still filled with thousands of players 
 daily. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Gameplay: The main purpose of this game is to defeat the opposing team. You can choose to be either 
 Terrorists (T) or Counter-Terrorists (CT) . On different maps, there are different objectives for 
 both Ts and CTs. For example, on de maps, Ts will have a C4 and must plant it on a bomb site within 
 a time limit. The CTs, on the other hand, must prevent the Ts from planting, and when they do get 
 the chance to plant, the CTs must find defuse it before it explodes. Other map types include cs 
 (where CTs try to rescue hostages protected by the Ts) , as (where one random player on CT is assigned 
 to be VIP and must be escorted to the escape by the other CTs before the Ts assasinate him) . There 
 are countless other maps as well. The weapon choices in this game is relatively high, ranging from 
 the MP5 to M4 (CT exclusive) to AK47 (T exclusive) to AWP (sniper) . It is also important to mention 
 that Counter-Strike runs on a program called Steam, which updates frequently to keep the game running 
 smoothly and glitchless. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Graphics/Sound: The graphics in the most currently version, 1.6, is excellent. The player models 
 are great and something that I thought is pretty interesting is that when the player talks, the 
 mouth of the model also talks! The sound in this game is just as good. Footsteps (which can be 
 eliminated by walking ) can be clearly heard, which is a very important part of the game because 
 it allows players to prepare when enemies are approching. On certain maps, there are also sound 
 effects that sounds amazing. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Difficulty: Varies widely. It all depends on the server and the players you are playing with. There 
 really isnt a way to separate the novice players from the veterans, which can be a drag for the 
 new comers. However, with practice, everyone can get good.
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Value: This game is definitely worth every penny i spent on it. From the moment I began playing, 
 I was immediately addicted. I spent hundreds of hours playing it, as I mentioned before, and I 
 do intend on spending more on it. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall: This game is amazing. There isnt a single player mission based mode, which is a bit disappointing, 
 but the multiplayer more than makes it for me. I would recommend it to any FPS fan. A word of advice: 
 if you are in school and cares about your grades but cannot do well when you're addicted to a game, 
 do not, i repeat DO NOT buy this game. (FYI: my grades have noticeably suffered due to this game, 
 but I am actually still doing extremely well) . For everyone else, however, GO, GO, GO get this 
 game now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrotha
Rating: 8.9
Date: Oct 28, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Counter-strike is a striking realistic piece, created by Valve Software using the Half-life engine. 
 Originally the game was a mear multiplayer mod that was available for download if you had Half-life. 
 But it has broken into the most widely played online FPS on the planet. Counter-strike isn't always 
 fun, but it is most definately addicting. Getting a kill in counter-strike brings a strong satisfying 
 feeling. Dying, only makes you want to play more because you think you'll get a nice satisfying 
 kill next round. A really interesting twist is, when a round begins in counter-strike, you can 
 have almost any weapon in the game.... if you've got the money. You get money for getting kills, 
 and straight up when a round ends. You'd better save if you want that big machine gun little timmy. 
 Don't go wasting it on puny little SMGs. Counter-strike has an abundant amount of maps as well. 
 You have to be very precise with your shots to get a kill, because this is strong realism here, 
 and firing a clip away in 30 seconds at a specific target, will get you nowhere, and he'll only 
 have to fire a few shots to bring you down to the ground. Being patient comes with a great reward 
 in counter-strike, the pleasure of finding a suspect who will walk past you, and gives you the 
 chance to approach him from behind, and stab him in the back with a knife. Counter-strike is a 
 fantastic game, even today when we've got the source engine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peeweepete26
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2006 6:51 pm PT
Review:  CS is an online Counter-Terrorist (CT) vs. Terrorist (T) FPS. The thing that makes this thing great 
 is its hard and its realistic. Most FPS dumbs down the realisim to make it easy for newcomers to 
 the game, not this game. in most FPS guns dont have much recoil and have a type of autoaim feature 
 and big hit boxes. CS doesnt have of these things and it makes is tough but more fun! Rounds are 
 3 minutes each usually and pit the Ts and CTs against eachother in either CS maps (Hostage Rescue) , 
 DE (Ts must bomb target area, CTs must defuse bomb when planted) . There are no classes in this 
 game unlike most online FPS's, at the start of the game each person has $800 to spend on guns, 
 grenades, defuser kits, ammo, armor etc. You get more money when you get a kill, someone else on 
 your team gets a kill, your team kills all of the other team, you plant the bomb, the bomb goes 
 off, you defuse the bomb you attempt to rescue the hostages, you successfully rescue the hostages 
 and if you win the round. There are many great and unique weapons raning from pistols, shotguns, 
 snipers, SMGs, UZIs, and assualt riles. Each with there own unique sound, and feel. when your are 
 killed in the game you wait untill a new round which starts when either one team is completely 
 dead or a team completes there objective. A warning though the game is NOT noob friendly. The game 
 will take a very long time to get good at it and most players aren't exactly going to hold your 
 hand and teach you all the in's and out's of this game and the stratigies (allthough some might) . 
 This game also has a HUGE replay value due to ther ability for players to create there own maps 
 and mods. There are many things you can do you never would think of. Hell today I played a game 
 of CS-soccer then I me and my clan played hide and seek. Another fun thing to do is get a team 
 of good players and enter the Cyberathlete Amature Leauge (CAL) as many players do which is a ton 
 of fun. I have been playing this game for 5 years now and I still try to get on everyday and I 
 still find new things to do. If you are willing to put the time in to learn all the various stratigies 
 of playing and the lingo this will be the best game you ever play in your life. An easy way to 
 get going is if you have a friend who has been playing this game for quite some time and will be 
 willing to show you the ropes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefantasy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Oct 14, 2006 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Counter-Strike 1.6
  
  Developed by: Valve Corporation
  
  http://www. counter-strike. net
  
  General Information:
  
  Counter-strike is a terrorist 
 vs counter-terrorist based game. It is an online FPS (First Person Shooter) game with NO MONTHLY 
 FEES!!! Counter-strike continues to grow and will continue to grow due to the fact that counter-strike 
 clans participate in the CAL tournaments for money prizes. It easy to fall in love with this violent 
 shooting game, and here is a review from someone who plays the game himself.
  
  The Review
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  
  The gameplay is pretty easy to get used to. You have two 
 teams to choose from, Terrorist or Counter-Terrorist. If you are a terrorist, your job is to kill 
 all the counter-terrorist, plant the bomb, and/or protect the hostages. If you are a counter-terrorist, 
 however, you have to kill all the terrorist, defuse the bomb if it was planted, and/or save the 
 hostages. Your success is based on your team and if your team is willing to work together with 
 you to accomplish the objectives handed to you. It is a heavily addicting game that seems to never 
 get old.
  
  Sound 10/10
  
  Counter-Strike has realistic sounds for every weapon in the game. From the silencer to a burst 
 fire, counter-strike has it all. You can also download alternative sounds if you want to make your 
 gun sound funny when it shoots. Most Counter-Strike servers, depending on their administrators, 
 also come with downloads (automatically downloads for when you join a server with files you dont 
 have) of extra sounds that enhance the gameplay to make it more serious, or whacky! From You Are 
 An Idiot! to May the Force Be With You, Always. Counter-strike has them all.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  
  Counter-strike is a game that comes with a variety of maps to play in. You 
 can go to places based on famous TV Shows like The Simpsons or you can go bomb Wallmart! Counter-Strike 
 is open to allow anyone create any kind of map they want with any kind of graphics they please, 
 giving this game a 9/10 for Graphics. Why not 10? Because there is a limit to the quality of the 
 graphics but that has been fixed on the next installment of counter-strike, counter-strike source 
 (2.0) .
  
  You can also download skins to make your guns look different or even make your team look different! 
 You can make your guns look sci-fi or make your grenades look like chickens easily by installing 
 alternate files that are free on any counter-strike fan website.
  
  Overall 8/10
  
  I personally recommend this game to any FPS fan out there. You do not have to pay any monthly fees, 
 just buy the game for around $20 at any gaming store or at their website. The game usually comes 
 in a pack with many more games as well! It is not as expensive as those $50 games you see today 
 but that doesnt mean it isnt good enough to match up to them! Counter-Strike is a game Im sure 
 any FPS fan would enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seaniesean5
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 9, 2006 9:49 pm PT
Review:  No FPS can compare! not halo not killzone not the x-box version of this game NOTHING. talk about 
 crack! this game hooked me like no other. for months on end all i could think of was getting online 
 and playing. and i suck at this game! it was actually a relief when i broke my laptops screen and 
 had to get a new one still havent reinstalled it. why? you may ask. because this game stopped me 
 from getting my work done properly yes its one of those games you CAN NOT put it down once it gets 
 you. half life is good but counter-strike is a whole new ballgame get pwned and love it! cant wait 
 to get a sweet laptop that can play source so i can get into it all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PatsFanVince
Rating: 9.3
Date: Sep 24, 2006 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Counter-Strike is a mod of the popular Half-Life and with that said its one of the best online 
 games out there today even after 6 years. What makes Counter-Strike so special is its gameplay 
 and online play. You really have to outsmart your opponents in order to win which means listening 
 and moving silently through the maps. Each map is different so you really have to learn them in 
 order to be good and know where all the hiding spots are located. The graphics arent the best 
 available but who said graphics were everything it still has awesome gameplay. The online community 
 can be rough for newcomers to the game so if your playing for the first time you will really want 
 to practice a lot to get better. The sound of Counter-Strike is great the gun shots and footsteps 
 sound amazing and the environments sound the way they should. The trick with the sound is that 
 it can really pinpoint where a enemy is giving you the advantage and a possible kill. Overall if 
 your looking for a amazing online game and dont have a great PC to run others this one should 
 be at the top of your list!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lazyman4444
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2006 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- It's seems like a simple game, but it is very complicated with lots of strategies that 
 require smarts and teamwork. This game is really a team based game (or should i say sport, considering 
 its popularity) , I cannot stress it enough. This game takes so much time to become even decent 
 that it may not keep some people interested, but if you have the thousands of hours to dedicate 
 towards becoming better you will really appretiate this game.
  
  Graphics- I really dont mind the real blocky graphics, fps in this game is a major thing and i 
 like getting constant 100. And graphics are hardly important when you have a game like this that 
 is so entertaining and fun.
  
  Sound- You hear enemies around you whether its the gunfire or just them running, sound is vital 
 to the game when competing.
  
  Value- I've gotten thousands of hours out of this game (I've been playing for about 2 and 1/2 years 
 now) and it never becomes boring for me. And I got this game for $20 dollars back then and it included 
 HL and all the expansions and i believe now it is around $10.
  
  Reviewers Tilt- 10
  
  This game is still the most popular online game today and its been out since 1998, this game is 
 truly amazing and a must play for anybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoberWarock
Rating: 9.6
Date: Sep 12, 2006 3:11 am PT
Review:  Sure playing with bots is fun when your about to cool down. but online is like so Intense. Once 
 your dead you wait, which sucks but hey thats why theres mods. Yes Mods, mods in this game are 
 the BEST. My favourites.....
  
  Deathmatch
  Superheromod
  Bot servers
  Hookmod
  Warcraft Mod
  and MANY MORE
  
  If you have high speed conneciton, ok your ready, your set, 
 GO play. If you have bad ping like me, its not that my connection is slow, its not my pc its actually 
 where I live it really sucks. my ping is like 300+ and if I get T1 my ping will be like at least 
 100+ and thats still sucks, but hey better than 300+. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patno77
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2006 1:22 am PT
Review:  Now this game came out it 1999 as an expansion fpr Half-Life, but later released as a standalone 
 multi player first person shooter. I have spent countless hours to this day playing this game, 
 and having a little too much fun pwning n00bs. Counter-Strike is one of those games that wont ever 
 get boring because of its excellent game play, graphics, sound and physics. Now it may not be as 
 popular as World Of Warcraft and Everquest but im sure if all those people tried this game they 
 would kill themselves for not noticing it earlier. In game You can choose form two different teams 
 Terrorists or Counter-Terrorists each with their own set of objectives and weapons. There are 4 
 different game types: "Bomb/defuse" in witch the Terrorist must plant a bomb at the bomb site while 
 the Counter-Terrorists must either kill all the Terrorists, Defend the bomb site till time runs 
 out, or defuse the bomb if its planted, in "Hostage Rescue" mode The Counter-Terrorist must rescue 
 hostages kept a the Terrorists base while the Terrorists must prevent the Counter-Terrorists from 
 rescuing them, In "v. i. p" mode the Counter-Terrorists must escort the v. i. p to a waiting chopper 
 and the Terrorists must try to kill the v. i. p, Death match mode is your basic "kill em all" mode, 
 you must try and get as many kills as you can befor the end of the round.
  
  I recommend getting this game as soon as possible, you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmittyIsTheBest
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 16, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  This game literally pwns. With a p. There's little other way to describe it.
  
  Apart from the obvious there are many things that make this game great.
  
  The style, is very 
 well done, most of the official maps look and play the part, the old skins are much better than 
 the newer ones, but they are still ok.
  
  The gameplay is great, better than great. The joy of this game is really the speed at which people 
 die, you could be running along with full HP and body armor: turn a corner, get headshotted, dead; 
 enter a new room, get mauled with many bullets; drop down from a ledge and get knifed in the back.
 
  
  What's so good about that you ask? The fact that you can do that to other people just as easy as 
 they can to you. Even easier if you have skill. It takes some time to truly get the hang of it 
 but it's time well spent.
  
  The game never gets old aswell, you can play it (and many people have) for years on end without 
 tiring from it.
  
  And it's hilarious when the Counter-Terrorists have beaten all the Terrorists, head over to the 
 bomb, get to half a second away from defusing it just as it blows up in their face. Classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bob_the_blob_24
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 15, 2006 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life: Counter-Strike may an old game, but it still boasts a huge online community. Just check 
 the Steam servers right now, and you can find hundreds of players online at any given moment. Why? 
 Because Counter-Strike is full of action and fun. Respawning may be a pain, but simply watching 
 others play is exciting. Some servers even have mods for Counter-Strike (yeah, mods for a mod, 
 that's how great it is) including Superhero Mod, Warcraft3 Mod, and Deathmatch Mod. Of course, 
 you could always play the regular version. It's all one would want from a First-Person Shooter. 
 If your comp sucks (or even if it doesn't) and you want an online FPS experience you'll never forget, 
 get Half-Life: Counter-Strike! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flyswimmer716
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 15, 2006 11:19 am PT
Review:  Counterstrike is game that defines online fps. The realism is almost perfect in this game. Graphics 
 are a bit dated but for a online fps, frames per second and minimal lag is most important. All 
 the weapons feels and sounds very real. There are plenty of maps to choose from and there are a 
 plethera of different styles of gameplay. Although it will take a while to learn the basics and 
 gain skill, it is a worthwhile game. This is a game that you will never get sick of. Just ask me, 
 i have been hooked onto this game for years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Mr_Derp_
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 13, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  This is the online game you should be playing, intense matches, a strong community with very competitive 
 tendencies. This game will have you coming back for more until you can compete with the top dogs, 
 then theres no turning back. After this game gets you you can't stop playing because of the smooth 
 flow of play, balanced weapon system, and there is always a server to play on.
  
  If you havent played counter strike then you haven't experienced what online games have to offer.
 
  
  Only gripe with this game is of course the graphics, but on the plus side any computer can run 
 the game with no FPS hiccups. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darklord0000
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2008 6:27 am PT
Review:  The game is very simple, You have 2 teams one being the Terrorist "T" and other the Counter-Terrorist 
 "CT". The Terrorist can win rounds by detonating the bomb, Holding hostages, or by eliminating 
 the Counter-Terrorists. The Counter-Terrorist would just do the vice-versa, they can defuse the 
 bomb, rescue hostages, or kill all the Terrorists. There are TONS of maps that you can play on. 
 Some of the most famous maps are de_dust2, de_aztec, de_assault, de_cbble, de_train, de_inferno. 
 Some maps may favor a team and they should use it properly to win rounds. Both teams (T and CT) 
 spawn on pretty much opposite sides of the map. 
  
  Counter-Strike is one of the most played online games and it is one of the best FPS games ever 
 (I think it is THE best) . Counter-Strike is being played in professional leagues around the world 
 in tournaments by millions of people and for big prizes. In these matches that are held you play 
 as a team of 5 members. The teams are usually practicing before a match based on the map to figure 
 out strategies on that particular map. They would have one of the 5 people lead the team and tell 
 them when to buy weapons or when to save their money etc. Most teams would move quickly to hold 
 position and may camp positions. Games are played in short rounds, also once you are killed you 
 are getting to observe other teammates and watch them through 1st person view.
  
  Even though it is a old game and has an old game engine which is the Half-Life engine it still 
 has the great gameplay and excitement that makes it seem like the best looking game ever. The gun 
 sounds are good and realistic and the radio commands are not the most realistic but useful at times. 
 My Favorite guns along with almost every other CS player would include M4A1, CV-47, Magnum Sniper (AWP) , 
 and Desert Eagle (Deagle) .
  
  One thing about CS that might not be for everyone is that it's addicting, you may spend ALL your 
 time playing CS instead of getting enough sleep or even lose your job : (
  OK maybe not that much :P
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EwaAznLeader
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 2, 2006 11:45 pm PT
Review:  Released six years ago, Counter-Strike, a game by Sierra, was created. Where you play as either 
 Counter-Terrorist or Terrorist. Each with their seperate goals in order to dominate the round. 
 Depending on the map and mods, game-play will change and you can experience it in other ways. As 
 a reckless shooter who has no care for anything but killing the opposing team or a tactical leader 
 leading and commanding fellow comrads in "scrims" which is another way to play using microphones 
 to enhance your gameplay and fun.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay in this game can be quite fun and quite frustrating at time. It can be quite 
 funny too, being annoying to your enemy, killing them round after round. Difficulty may vary depending 
 on server and players. Grenades and various choice of weapons effect this game heavily. Frags, 
 Flashbangs, and smokes, are your choices for grenades. Each can be used in their own unique ways. 
 Pistols, Shotguns, SMGs, Rifles, and Machine Guns are in your arsenal of killing your enemy in 
 bloodshed. Just don't forget the headshot.
  
  Graphics: Graphics can be a bit bad a points. Walking right next to walls and looking at them upclose 
 shows their poorly made pixels. Smoke grenades will make you lag if you have a bad comp. Character 
 models are decent, not the best but this game was made 6 years ago. Give it some credit for its 
 popularity currently. Don't be too picky about graphics, or you will never play this game.
  
  Sound: The sound is OK. I like how all guns have their own unique sounds and how listening 
 to nearby enemy footsteps can highly benefit yourself. And depending on your server or mod, their 
 will be custom sounds like after killing an enemy, getting a headshot, getting a killing spree, 
 and so on. It is very fun to see and hear yourself dominating the opposing force.
  
  Value: This game is currently being sold for 15$ - 20$, which I say is a great deal for a game 
 like this. If FPS is one of your type of games, this is practically a must have. A real bargain. 
 And having this game will also make your gaming collection look good.
  
  Reviewers Tilt: My overall opinion, one of the best FPS games made. Will be a classic in years. 
 I will continue to play this games probably for months or years to come.
  
  Ah... such good times in this game. Get this game, get skill, start ownage, have fun, and don't 
 forget the headshot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oogieboogie8
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 2, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Counter-Strike is a wildly popular game, and there are several reasons why. In the begging in may 
 not be as fun, as there are tons of Counter Strike addicted players out there that can kill you 
 easily as you're a beginner. Later on, it gets really fun and kind of addicitng as you get better, 
 so you won't get creamed. There are two sides: terrorists and counter-terrorists, and the goal 
 can be for the terrorists: plant the bomb, and the counter-terrorists: trying to stop them, from 
 cs getting a VIP to safety, for each side to just eliminate the opposite side, and more. Custom 
 maps makes this even more fun; the maps they make are very creative sometimes. There are sometimes 
 special twists like only knifes, or only knifes on one time and onyl snipers on others and more. 
 Laggin is also a problem in the game. It could be that your in one place, then it freezes, then 
 your dead.
  
  Counter Strike's graphics are not very good, as soemtimes peoples dead bodies may somehow sink 
 halfway in the ground or through a wall, and things just aren't pretty.
  
  Sound is ok, typical FPS shooting and stuff.
  
  Counter- Strike may be a game that will last 
 for a long time, as there is always somehting to do, and even as newer versions come out, this 
 was a classic.
  
  Overall, Counter-Strike is a great game for FPS fans, as its controls are alike and has a great 
 value.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwnr
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 22, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  At $10 for this whole game, it's completely worth every penny. 
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay here is really good. The only problem is that the FOV is too large, resulting in smaller 
 objects, which is hard for me to play. 
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics are from an 8 year old GoldSrc engine, so it's not really that pretty. 
  
  Sound: 
 
  The sound is an enhancement to the game, but really isn't necessary unless you want to hear the 
 footsteps of enemies. 
  
  Value:
  This game really should be bought. Even if you have a really crappy computer, you can play this 
 game really smoothly, unless someone throws a smoke grenade. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ubeyone
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 22, 2006 1:47 am PT
Review:  This game is one of my favourite all time game. How could any one not like this game. Heres why 
 its so good.
  
  Gameplay 10/10- This game has it all, this game has awesome multi-player you can have 2-35 players 
 in one server! You'll never get bored because there are hundreds of maps to choose from. There 
 are also custom guns, Warcraft mod/superhero mod where you get heroes which have special skills 
 and where you kill people you get xp.
  
  Graphics 7/10- Ok, ok... this game doesnt have great graphics but its still pretty good.
  
  
 Sound 9/10- Definately one of the games good points, Servers can customise sounds such as when you 
 kill some one with a knife it'll say 'Humilation' or if you start a new round, 'Prepare to fight'.
 
  
  Value 10/10 hmmm.... $10 well spent!
  
   for  
::::::

::::::
UserName: acmilanrocks
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 21, 2006 8:47 pm PT
Review:  I write this review 7 years after it's initial release (the mod version) , but I'm going to disregard 
 the new Condition Zero and Source sequels (updates actually) .
  
  If you don't know what Counter-Strike is go hang yourself, or better yet, go buy it - or it's newer 
 counterparts. Because quite simply, there is little need for me to justify it's purchase. The fact 
 that well over 150,000 people are playing various CS titles at any given moment should be enough 
 to convince you of that, and in case you didn't realise, it is easily the most played online game 
 at the present time.
  
  If you want to know what the it's about read the GameSpot review, it pretty much sums it up, and 
 I've told people to many times as it is.
  
  If you haven't yet bought a CS game you may want to consider which one you buy. 1.6 (this title) 
 isn't in my opinion the best there is, nor is it really the best game to start with - the "leet" 
 people play it. If your getting started I recommend Condition Zero, however if you love drooling 
 over visuals and don't give a hell about single player, Source would be your next best choice.
 
  
  Oh, in case you didn't know, you NEED the internet - there is only multiplayer available - and 
 if you don't, Condition Zero is your best friend right now.
  
  Disregarding the newer titles however, let us go back to the year 2000, 1.6 is truly the best.
 
  
  The ratings I have given the game are based on what was available in 2000, so don't have a heart 
 attack when I choose 8 for graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 15, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay was pretty new when it came out. The buying system was pretty revolutionary 
 and still kind of is since not too many games use it. The idea of Counter Terrorist vs Terrorist 
 was pretty cool and new for the time since most FPS's were free fo all or red vs blue. Overall 
 the gameplay is what made this game shine back then, and its still a superor game today with over 
 1000 servers up. 10
  
  Graphics: The graphics werent too great when it first came out but over time they were getting 
 better and when 1.6 was released they were pretty good and even looked better than Half-Life. 9
 
  
  Sound: The sound was top notch. Everyone loved the electronic voices that sayed stuff like "Counter 
 Terrorists Win". The guns shots were also memerable bacause they were so different from every other 
 game. 10
  
  Value: Benn playin since the betas. Still playin it!!!! Counter-Strike is one of the most addicting 
 games ever mad. 10
  
  Tilt: If you havent played it yet you should its only like 10$. If you have and did not like it... 
 WHATS WRONG WITH YOU!! 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sCnMavrick
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 5, 2006 11:42 am PT
Review:  I have played this game for more than 3 years, and have just recently considered joining cal again. 
 This is a game that will never be gone. It is a game that is easy to learn and get used to but 
 sooo difficult to master. It is also a game that can be played just for the hell of it, going into 
 pubs and just trying to get as many kills as possible, or joining a league and a team and playing 
 the game competitively using strategies as you play against your opponents. The only people who 
 would hate this game are the ones that hate First Person Shooters. If your a gamer and don't have 
 this game I would be extremely surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxgangsta
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 22, 2006 6:52 am PT
Review:  Well first i tryed this game at internet caffee i realy liked it i played in multiplayer wit my 
 friend... anyway i say that this game is one of the best games... Its very interesting , a lot of 
 people play in multiplayer , this game is clasic ,you can play day and night , afcourse after few 
 moth of playing it gets boring but after few moths again you want to play it again and again... 
 So i think that this game is very good and it doesnt need fast computer so allmost everybody might 
 enjoy playing this game ... The Sound gets a litle anoying after a bit of time ,but it has good 
 gameplay and ather stuff , realy i dont know a person with warent played this game ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarah-1988
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 20, 2006 3:56 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Counter-Strike (also known as CS) , I knew it was going to be an instant classic. 
 It obviously shows the required expectations of a good multiplayer shooter. Getting headshots in 
 the game is not onerous but its not effortless either. The graphics arent impeccable but its 
 commendable. Counter-Strike has a variety of weapons such as M4A1, AK47, M3 and so forth. The downside 
 of the game is that CS may be unexciting after spending a stupendous amount of time playing it. 
 Using the same engines of war over and over again will get tedious. Overall, Counter-Strike is 
 a superb multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dum_dum_626364
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 24, 2006 7:33 pm PT
Review:  For the past few years, it is impossible not to have heard about Counter-Strike. The game that 
 supposedly single-handedly changed the FPS genre forever. I can assure you that those claims are 
 correct. If you somehow have managed to find a way to escape from the CStrike craze and don't yet 
 know what all of the fuss is about, here is how the game breaks down for you:
  
  As soon as you join the server of your choice (there are always at least 3,000 running at one time) , 
 you are prompted to choose the side of either the CT's (counter-terrorists) or the T's (terrorists) . 
 From there you need to choose one of the different classes (which are nothing more than player 
 skins) . For example, if you chose the CT side you can choose to be part of the renowned British 
 SAS or if you decide to be a terrorist you can even be part of a fictional clan called the Midwest 
 Militia (lol) .
  
  Once you choose your side and class, there will probably already be a round in session so you're 
 just going to have to wait patiently until the current round ends (don't worry, the default length 
 for each round is only 3 minutes, so you won't have to wait too long) . And unless you want to walk 
 around with just a pistol the entire round you are going to have to buy some new equipment once 
 you spawn. You acquire money by killing your opposition and completing your teams objectives which 
 you use to buy bigger and better equipment.
  
  Now that you are into the gameplay at last, you either need to eliminate all of your opposition, 
 or complete the map specific objectives. On the most popular CS map, dust, the T's need to plant 
 a bomb at one of the bombsites and the CT's need to defuse it before it detonates. There are also 
 a multitude of hostage rescue maps in which the CT's have to rescue a number of hostages from the 
 enemy base while the T's have to prevent that from happening by killing all of the CT's.
  
  Now all of that may not seem too exciting to some people at first, but the way that Valve puts 
 it all together makes a near perfect FPS experience. There are still a few things that people can 
 criticize about Counter-Strike though. For one, there are the hackers which spoil everyone's fun. 
 Secondly, the learning curve is quite steep now that it has been out on the market for 8 years, 
 and since there are no single player modes whatsoever, it discourages many newbies when their score 
 at the end of each game is 1 kill and 15 deaths.
  
  Closing Comments:
  
  Sure there might be some new FPS's out on the market that have a more original and fresh gameplay 
 to them, but when it comes down to pure addictiveness, nothing beats Counter-Strike.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Not too unique but the way that it's executed is unrivaled by any game to date.
 
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Obviously outdated, but they get the job done.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  Weapon effects are outstanding.
  
  Value: 10/10
  How can you go wrong with a $10 dollar game....
 
  
  Lasting Appeal: 10/10
  .... that lasts a lifetime.
  
  Overall: 9.9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StephenHu
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 6, 2006 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this game is VERY addicting, i play from 6-12 hours on weekends and i cant put this down!. 
 The learning curve is a little steep since you have to learn all the recoil for every gun. You 
 will at first be in a big hissy fit since you will probably get "PWNENNDNND!!!" but you will catch 
 on. You can probably never master this game since its so hard. But the fun in that is so you will 
 have a challenge.
  
  
  BEWARE: NOT NEWBIE FRIENDLY (no single player for training either)
  
  
  MOST OF ALL GOOD 
 LUCK AND HAVE FUN ON THIS GAME, *inspirational song tunes in* NEVER GIVE UP EVEN IF ITS TOO HARD 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightFalcon662
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 6, 2006 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life made its debut in 1998, and it shocked the entire world. Half-Life at the time featured 
 stunning graphics, gameplay, and sound. It was simply one of those games that had to be in every 
 gamers hands, and still to this date Half-Life is a game that every action-game developing company 
 carefully needs to study in order for their games to be a success. Shortly after the release and 
 once the gasp from the world has ended, two game developers joined together to create a game that 
 not gasped the world again, but made it scream.
  
  The game pits terrorists and counter-terrorists in a fast-paced sort of "S. W. A. T." type of tactical 
 firefighting gameplay. Matches can consist of one of two types of game types. The first and probably 
 the most popular type is bomb defusal. In both of the game types, you can win by either eliminating 
 the opposing team or following the objective. In bomb defusal a random player on the team will 
 receive the bomb each round. The player can plant the bomb in one of two bomb spots or simply drop 
 the bomb for another teammate to pick it up and use it. Once the bomb is planted the counter-terrorists 
 must defuse it regardless if the terrorists have been eliminated. The counter-terrorists usually 
 have about thirty-five seconds to defuse the bomb and win the round. The second type of gameplay 
 is hostage rescue. The terrorists must protect four hostages in an area of the map from the counter-terrorists 
 rescuing them and taking them to their base. If the hostages are killed by the terrorists or counter-terrorists, 
 nothing will happen except that now the counter-terrorists must completely kill the terrorists 
 to gain victory in the round. At the start of each round all players have a few seconds to quickly 
 buy weapons with the money they have achieved from past rounds by victories. Both teams have a 
 significant difference in the arsenal of weapons you can choose from, but neither really focuses 
 on a specific time of gun style. All of the weapons in the game are one-hundred percent realistic 
 and deadly as in reality. This is an element that makes Counter-Strike such a superior game. 
 
  
  Counter-Strike is without argument the most popular online action game in the world. An entire 
 culture has formed around it. So what makes it such an extremely addictive and popular game? It 
 is purely because of the fantastically well-crafted gameplay and not the graphics, or the game 
 would not be as popular as it is. Players around the world will give you many "deep" reasons why 
 it is such a great game. But one without argument stands out. It is simply the fact that versus 
 other games, it is "difficult" to make a kill in the game. What makes the game so addicting is 
 the pleasure of killing someone after a long thirty second gunfight or a quick shot to the head, 
 knowing that the dead player is now experiencing some form of anger as he waits out the rest of 
 the round. Another element is how realistic the guns feel in the game. Regardless if they are fake 
 and the shooting has been totally simulated, it has been superiorly well done. And definitely once 
 a new player to the game has gained enough experience to achieve kills at least periodically, a 
 feeling of "power" will be experienced when holding an AK-47 or an M4. The game is quite punishing 
 to new players, and a total hapzard to players who have never played first-person shooters or video 
 games at all. But regardless the stress you feel at first, there is absolutely no reason to put 
 down the game because of the entry-difficulty, as it is almost guaranteed you will get better in 
 the game.
  
  There are over ten maps in the game, and each one has been done as a masterpiece. All of the maps 
 wildly differ from each other in the feel of action and even the environment. The most popular 
 of all the maps, de_dust2 that has been created by DaveJ, is still commonly referenced in many 
 gaming parodies, magazines, shows, etc. Due to its style and simplicity, it is a godly-designed 
 map and arguably the most popular map in first-person shooter history. One thing that helps to 
 fight a player of being bored of the game is simply the maps. Since each map has been superbly 
 designed, a player could easily switch to another one after being bored and continue on with play, 
 and with a different feel. The game also has many public map editors which 3rd parties can use 
 to create custom maps. fy_iceworld and awp_map are some very popular maps that have been created 
 by amateur designers. This makes Counter-Strike a game with an almost "infinite" value sort of 
 feel. 
  
  The sound in Counter-Strike is absolutely insanely-realistic. The first time a player plays or 
 even watches another player play the game, the person will definitely without a doubt notice the 
 clear sounds of AK-47 fire or pistol fire. Not much is known why the guns sound so realistic, and 
 the players best guess is that the designers have actually recorded live gunfire of the weapons. 
 The sound of the weapons combined with the look and feel; end up making the player totally immersed 
 into the game and with a feeling of "power". This sort of thing is extremely rare in video game. 
 
  
  At the time Counter-Strike had simply jaw-dropping graphics. Created all from the Half-Life engine, 
 players were amazed at the lighting effects and how clear the textures were. At the present, the 
 game doesn't hold the same, but it is what in the past has mattered. Half-Life was one of the first 
 games in history to have some slightly complex and dynamic physics. The bouncing of a flashbang 
 or a player being blown away was also something at the time to look at. Games before the release 
 of Half-Life hardly had any sort of physics, and if they did, it would be something very basic. 
 
  
  Counter-Strike is a game that without argument should be on any players hard drive. There are 
 still even thousands of players that since from the release of the game back at 1998, still actually 
 play the game without losing an ounce of boredom. Counter-Strike will forever be played, and is 
 the heart of all action games from the past, present, and the future. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knight-Blade
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 1, 2006 3:16 am PT
Review:  Man hard to believe this game is almost 10 years old and its still doing better than the original 
 unreal Tournament.
  
  What can I say? its just a fun game, you gotta get used to it, especially since its so different 
 from the others, were its just you kill everyone else by yourself, heres its the complete opposite, 
 this game requires teamwork, what you do, what they do, will determane the outcome of the round/ 
 overall game thats all ya need to know.
  
  This game is worth getting even by todays standards, sure they upgraded the graphics and re-released 
 the print of this game, but the classic feel gives you a reminder of the golden days the classic 
 days, the days that will live on in this generations gaming hearts and minds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neerajkumar_4
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 24, 2006 8:52 am PT
Review:  Counter-Strike:-
  
  By,
  Scorpio_gamer a. k. a Neerajkumar_4
  
  Introduction:-
  
  The game is very simple! You have 2 teams of 5 members each (CLAN matches) one is the Terrorist 
 [T] and other is the Counter-Terrorist [CT] . The Terrorist can win rounds by detonating the bomb 
 on the one of the two bomb sites available (bomb site A and B) or by eliminating the Counter-Terrorists. 
 The Counter-Terrorist should just do the vice-versa; they should defuse the bomb or should kill 
 all the Terrorists. You have different maps to be played on. I was explaining you the bomb planting 
 maps (de_) . There are other maps like hostage rescue (CS_) , Save the VIP, Aim maps (aim_) , custom 
 maps (fy_) , etc. there are thousands of maps available on the net for free download, there are 
 many people who create maps.
  
  Few of the famous maps are de_dust2, awp_india, de_aztec, de_cbble, de_train, de_assault, de_inferno. 
 Few maps favor a team; they should use it properly to win rounds. (A map is space where you both 
 the teams spawn opposite to each other, it has building and other stuff, its just like a part 
 of any normal game but the surroundings are limited to a certain amount. You cant walk out of 
 the map)
  
  This game is one of the most online played games and it is one of the best FPS games ever. Actually, 
 it was MOD of the best seller Half-Life which later became a famous online shooter and its one 
 of the games in all gaming tournaments and the popular WCG (World Cyber Games) . It can be played 
 between different numbers of players but in tournament you play as a team of 5 members. 
  
  Game-Play:- 
  
  The game should be played with strategy. You have to buy your weapons sensibly; 
 you have to save your money for remaining rounds by not buying useless stuff. 
  You have to move quickly to hold position so you must use a knife while running to that you could 
 reach there first and camping should be minimal. Camping can be done along with moving; I mean 
 move take a or few enemies down, then camp , the look for another and so on ; but remember to take 
 cover at all times. Most of them try to get head shots to get one shot kill! 
  
  Games are played in short rounds, and when you're killed, you sit out the round as an invisible 
 observer; there are no death match-style respawns.
  
  Graphics:-
  
  This game is very old so it has a very old so it has old graphic engine, but people love the game 
 play not the graphics of the game.
  
  Sound:- 
  
  The gun sounds are gud enough and the radio commands are decent. The game has a decent sound.
 
  
  Conclusion:- 
  
  This review was review cum guide! :D This game jus rocks! The update of 1.5 is 1.6 is very famous, 
 its obvious that every one play 1.6 not 1.5 anymore. My Favorite guns are M4A1, CV-47, Bull pup, 
 Krieg., Magnum Sniper (AWP) . The shield feature in this game is not available for the tourneys coz 
 its kinda unfair. 
  The next version CS: Source is really fun to play.
  
  The game rocks !! :)
  
  Graphics - 8/10
  
  Sound- 9/10
  
  Gameplay-9/10
  
  Replay 
 Value: 10/10
  
  Overall- 9/10
  
  
  Scorpio_gamer:- 
 Remember there is NO such thing as GAME OVER!!
  So keep GAMING.!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajca
Rating: 8.1
Date: May 22, 2006 4:06 pm PT
Review:  What made me give up on this game is that fact that too many people are way to unatterally good 
 at it. Its a great game and all, but after playing for a month I still landed on the bottom of 
 the lists.
  
  Its not that I'm bad at fps, at my lowest, half-sleeping states I'm nothing less then incredable 
 at CoD, ET, and Origial Wolfenstein, not to mention BF2 and Quake III. (All of which I think to 
 be great games) , but I'm horrible at this game.
  
  One second your walking , the next second your dead. Its my grudge against realistic games (like 
 AA) . Games are my escape from the real world. But in all fairness this i s a pretty good game. 
 Good graphic, besides being pwned good gameplay, and great sound. As well as incredable replay 
 value, and intense shootouts.
  
  I'm putting the diffuculty as very hard, since I'm bad at the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rocker500
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 20, 2006 5:58 am PT
Review:  Story- 10/10: Terrorists plant a bomb or take hostages and Counter-Terrorists have to diffuse the 
 bomb or rescue the hostages? This never gets old, man.
  
  Gameplay- 10/10: Counter Strike has a pretty easy learning curve, and once you get used to it, 
 you'll never want to stop playing.
  
  Graphics- 8/10: These graphics were pretty good for its time, and are still acceptable today by 
 my standards.
  
  Sound- 10/10: All the gun sounds and everything sound just amazing.
  
  Value- 10/10: You'll probably spend alot of time playing this once you get the hang of it. I myself 
 have like over 100 hours playing this game. Nowadays, though, I usually play CSS because of the 
 better graphics and better aim. But it's a great game if you don't have the cash for CSS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godmachine0603
Rating: 10
Date: May 15, 2006 12:38 am PT
Review:  I can remember in early 2001 deciding to buy a computer. I had saved up around $1500 and was looking 
 to get a top of the line PC. Since i knew so little, i had a friend of mine help me find the best 
 one for my hard earned cash, as well as which games to start out on. I was told Counter-Strike 
 and Half-Life. Once i had hooked my computer up, and had them installed, it was the end of my social 
 life as i knew it. There are no words to describe how insanely addicting Counter-Strike is. I found 
 myself sitting in my house, in front of my computer, with a 12 pack of beer, and a bag of peanuts 
 or sticks of beef jerkey playing for sometimes a day and a half straight. After some rest, id wake 
 up and play again for the same duration. It took some time before i slowed down a bit, but that 
 only changed from a day and a half, to a day at a time. Everyone has at one time said "just one 
 more round, just one more kill" etc. But nothing, i mean NOTHING compares to this game in those 
 means. If your looking for a game to have some fun with and enjoy, Counter-Strike is not for you. 
 Because once your hooked, its not a game, but instead your life! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdizzzle
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 4, 2006 2:48 am PT
Review:  With the variety of different guns and characters it makes the game really fun online, where you 
 can play with different people from all over the world. You can buy all sorts of guns from pistols, 
 Sub Machine Guns, Rifles, Machine Gun, and Equipment such as; gernades, shield, nightvision, both 
 secondary and primmary ammo. Its not hard to learn to play and its pretty easy. You choose a team, 
 then a player, and at the beggining of each round you buy guns. Get money for killing people, placing 
 bomb, and defusing the bomb, and at the beginning of each round. With all this fun stuff how could 
 this not occupy your hours of boredem! Thier are also mods to the game, superhero mod, and warcraft 
 where you can level up and gain experience points. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vod_Crack
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 30, 2006 4:15 am PT
Review:  Counter-Strike is a game that has been around for a long time now. It was originally just a mod 
 for Valve Software's amazing first-person shooter. But now the game has become so popular and the 
 game has been updated and remade many times. Sure some people will just like Counter-Strike: Source 
 more just because of the pretty visuals and physics but to me Counter-Strike 1.6 will always be 
 my favourite version of the game.
  
  Counter-Strike isn't a single-player game. There is no progression of missions or levels or anything. 
 If you are looking for a single-player experience you might want to buy Counter-Strike: Condition 
 Zero which as bots and Deleted Scenes single-player campaign. But what this game is all about multiplayer 
 and Counter-Strike certainly delivers.
  
  In Counter-Strike there are two teams, the Counter-Terrorists and the Terrorists. The only difference 
 between the two is that the two different teams have access to different weapons. So the game sounds 
 like a simple team-deathmatch and that is true on a lot of maps but on some maps the teams will 
 have different objectives. There are only two goals I know and they aren't very different or all 
 that interesting. The first consists of the Counter-Terrorists sneaking into an area trying to 
 rescue hostages while the terrorists try to defend them. The other game objective has the Terrorist 
 team having to bomb a certain area while the Counter-Terrorists try to stop them. But in these 
 maps you don't actually have to complete your objective, you can just simply eliminate the other 
 team to win the round. Speaking of rounds, in Counter-Strike if you die you will have to sit out 
 and wait until the round i over. Rounds only last for about three minutes so you don't have to 
 sit for too long if you do die.
  Also in Counter-Strike you earn money while you are playing. To get money, you can kill your enemies, 
 finish your objective or just simply survive the round. You also get money even you did die which 
 I found strange but that didn't bother me at all. You will use your cash to buy weapons and equipment 
 at the very start of each round. You can get your hands on real-world weapons like USP pistols, 
 FAMAS assault rifles, AK47s and you can also buy grenades, defusal kits, nightvision goggles and 
 things like that. You don't have to buy your weapons, you do start of with a pistol and a knife 
 or you can just pick up weapons from dead bodies. You can only one primary weapon, one secondary 
 weapon, your trusty knife and multiple grenades. All of the weapons are quite hard to get used 
 to as they usually act like real guns. But then again apart of the fun can be just mastering the 
 arsenal of weapons.
  In Counter-Strike there are many different maps you can play on both official and unofficial The 
 official maps like Dust, Militia and Office are still played an awful lot and are great maps overall. 
 The unofficial maps are quite as good but they are still great and it is very good to know that 
 there will always be maps that you haven't tried out yet.
  One of the bad things aout Counter-Strike in general is that there are plenty of bad servers with 
 bad players within them. Some players like wall hack, speed hack and so on. It is unfortunate the 
 Counter-Strike has plenty of cheaters in it but all I will say is that if you come across these 
 hackers just avoid them and don't become one of them.
  
  The graphics in Counter-Strike are bad admittedly. The textures are often poor, character models 
 looks blocky and the whole game has a pretty basic look overall. The weapon models look just about 
 okay but that doesn't really say much. It is also worth mentioning that this game obviously used 
 the Half-Life engine.
  
  The sound however is great. There is no music or anything like that but the rest of the game sounds 
 great. The weapon noises are pretty convincing and the sound has held up well over the years. You 
 also use a headset to help control your team's efforts.
  
  So overall Counter-Strike is brilliant and you will be entertained for a very long time.
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bl1ndz0r
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 27, 2006 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Well this is the more addictive game ever made, and the game that have lasted more.... 6 years 
 later i still play the same game
  
  You can play for years and years and yet u dont get bored
  
  This is the game that initiated 
 competitive gaming in a pro level
  
  It is such a simple game but yet so good
  
  Thanks to counter strike i met a lot of new people and i have travel all around my country and 
 even outside to play counter strike tournaments
  
  And to think cs started like a mod to a game like half life and become the best online game ever 
 made to date 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bigscreenx
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 22, 2006 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Gaming enthusiats today find comfort in covering up their mistakes by saying things like "He shot 
 me through a wall!" or "My team sucks!". The thing that serves amazement to Counter-Strike's players 
 is how absolutely glitch-free the game is. This game is as perfect as a game could be. Although 
 the graphics are very much outdated, it doesn't seem to degrade the game at all. The sounds of 
 guns being fired in this game is great and CS also support surround sound. In this game you CAN 
 be shot through wall, but its respective to whats its built of. A crate isn't going to give you 
 blast protection nor will a wood gate however a steel door might not let one pass through. One 
 problem is that if you dont play your hardest online, you ARE going to get crushed. That, and the 
 dreadful steam service are the only things that imperfy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FragSeeker
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 18, 2006 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Counter Strike 1.6
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Okay so this game is a simple FPS which only offers a Multiplayer Option. The Game can be downloadedif 
 a valid Half-Life CD code is put into the STEAM engine. The Game is a Terrorists Vs. Counter Terrorists 
 Slugfeast with a wide veriaty of weapons. This is a timeless game which no sequal will over-run 
 or takeover. Expect to use up hundreds of hours slaving over this game.
  
  GRAPHICS
  I would like to point out that i am reviewing this in 2006. becuase the game was released when 
 the original Half Life was do not expect this game to give you the worlds best graphics but the 
 frame rate is smooth and the game can practicall run in high resolution on many of todays systems. 
 The smoke effects and bullets are very reallistic and the Flash grenades will lighten up the screen 
 making it impossible to ee for those few very crucial secounds which could mean life or death.
 
  
  SOUND
  The sound is flawless in this game the bullets sound vary from gun to gun showing that alot of 
 effort has been put into this game. Grenade, Flashbangs and Bombs have sharp sounds which canleave 
 you deafend for a couple of secound, this creates a very realistic sense of war.
  
  VALUE
  Seen as though this game is pactically free i think that this game offers the best value 
 to offer. All you ned to do is purchase the original Half Life and register the CD code in this 
 STEAM engine. This engine can be download for free Via gamespot.
  
  REIEWERS TILT
  I will be playing this game for a long time to come and so will you if you play this. Great game. 
 Simple as.
  
  FINAL SCORE
  If i could i would give this gam 10/10 but because of its dated graphics i must reduce the score. 
 But dont let this distract your dissision of purchasig this perfect game
  
  Fragseeker 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fasdaqw
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 16, 2006 10:34 pm PT
Review:  This is the one of thr most well-known games. In Half life counter strike you take the role of 
 counter terrorists or terrorists and you have to kill the counter terrorists if you are a terrorist 
 or plant a bomb. If you are ct you have to rescue the hostages or disarm the bomb or kill all the 
 terrorists. 
  
  This definitely deserves playing it on line. If you play single player then it will be very boring. 
 It's an excellent game for online play and although it's 6 years old many gamers still play it. 
 It's graphics are not very good but the game play is and this cover all it's minorities 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yozee306
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 12, 2006 4:18 pm PT
Review:  this is just by far a great mod i have had this game since what 2002 or so and to this date every 
 once in a while ill pop it in. all i can say is the map's are amazing espescially my fav map dust 
 anyways don't wanna make this to long since i got a half-life2 tournment in a bout 20 min and im 
 getting ready so all in all great game got half-life gota have this its worth every penny just 
 bye it belive me you will not regret it p. s i always just buy my games off steam cause there alot 
 cheaper and they go straight to your cp so there's no shipping or anything check it out last i 
 checked counter strike was $10.00 so you should check that out no matter what the bank is :p well 
 you gota have half-life to play just get the game youll like it bye enjoi!: p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cr3sent
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 11, 2006 4:54 am PT
Review:  FPS gamer shouldnt miss a master piece like this one. This is one hell of a fun game.
  
  People from around the world knows this played it, loved it. Tornaments around the world. Form East 
 to west. Asia to pacific to europe.
  This game should not be miss, miss it then you are the one to lose out.
  
  This game is still 
 popular now, and needless to say even popular in the past. Lan shops never stops earning from the 
 people who played there. It is addictive, grows on you. Lots of stratergy to work on. Sniper posistion. Ambush 
 positions. The ways to fire certain wepons. It puts your mind ,skills and heart to play. Feel the 
 power of teamwork. And the sweet revenge and sweet victory when your last enemy falls.
  
  This game not only provide fun but teaches us something, certainly not violence but more to making 
 your mind think and the power of teamwork.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cr3ati0n
Rating: 6.9
Date: Apr 9, 2006 9:57 am PT
Review:  This game is wierd. I bought it opened the box put in the key... its a bad key?! i finally get to 
 playing it and its just like a game you shoot people with awesome guns i'll give em that, there 
 isn't even single player? it would be a great game if they actually had some skill in printing 
 different key codes or even put in a lame single player mode. The graphics are horrible the main 
 screen is also with a half-life feel to them. Why is this such a WOW. I can come up with a few 
 games that are like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FreddyVorhees
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 8, 2006 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Counter-Strike is an amazingly fast paced action strategy FPS. You begin the game by selecting 
 Terrorist or Counter Terrorist and have a limited time to purchase weapons and upgrades with the 
 cash you've accumulated during the round. After that, it's time to rescue (or guard) hostages/ 
 disarm (or plant) explosives. That's right, only two play modes, but you probably won't be disappointed 
 (at least, you have no reason to) . You strategically maneuver the battleground and do some recon 
 for enemy opponents, or order other teammates to do so. Once the recon troop is shot (heheh) it's 
 time to burst in with your team and let loose some major ammo flow. This is where it starts to 
 get intense. With realistic health and damage calculations, there's little room to goof up. Once 
 you win the round (or die; shame on you!) , it's time to start all over again, and this time use 
 what you've learned about your opponents against them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BallaBoy21
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 7, 2006 10:46 pm PT
Review:  this game is by far the greatest online shooter there is and will ever be, to me even better than 
 css (counter Strike Source) the reason is because this game thats skill, sure you can learn how 
 the game works pretty quickly but after that it takes nothing but practice to find out what guns 
 to use and how to use them. whats cool is this game is really simple and yet really deep at that 
 same time and what i mean by that is you can just go free for al on it and join any old server 
 or you can works on gun skills, stealth, leading following, play warcraft servers, surf i mean 
 this game is a shooter... you prolly would have never expected to surf in a FPS game, but what 
 i am tryin to say really is
  
  Go out and buy this game!!! now lol and i mean counter strike 1.6 not cz or css 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloudstrife145
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 7, 2006 4:31 pm PT
Review:  This game is very VERY very ADDICTIVE! The game has it all: gameplay, sounds, value, and others. 
 The game has no story has but this game SUPERBLY rocks when it's multiplayer mode. It's like in 
 the real world...... Counter-Terrorists fight Terrorrists.....
  
  Sierra has made a great game! This game is one of my most favorite game sin the world world. The 
 game has lots of different levels which you can play in. The most famous level that people play 
 around the world would be de_dust or de_dust2. But other people like other levels such as cs_assault 
 or cs_mansion. All the levels are all fun! Very fun! There are tons of levels, approximately 100+ 
 levels or even more!
  
  The game is really fun. The main point of the game is teamwork...... if your a Counter-Terrorrist: 
 you must kill all the Terrorrist, save the hostages, or defuse the planted bomb.
  Now if your in the Terrorrist team you must: Kill all Counter-Terrorrists, successfully make the 
 bomb explode in the bomb site, or prevent the Counter-Terrorrist from saving the hostages.
  
  I would HIGHLY RECOMMEND you people who don't ahve this game to buy it right now! Buy it or 
 the CT and Terrorrists will gang up on you....
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blazethe1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 6, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  When I think FPS, i think Counter Strike. Counter Strike has pulled in and held tight to an insane 
 amount of players. At any one time you can search for servers and hav over 10,000 SERVERS going. 
 so youll never hav a lack of players. different battle types are included, like rescue the hostages, 
 and diffuse the bomb, plus tons of amazing mods and maps that you dont hav to find online to play. 
 just join the game and you hav it. if you havent played this yet, i'd recommend moving straight 
 to CSS because the people who play this version have it down to an art. you will be up against 
 people who LIVE counter strike. this game is AMAZING! best $20 youll ever spend on a FPS 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriplePlay2425
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2006 12:58 pm PT
Review:  Counter-Strike is a classic FPS game. For it's time the graphics were good, and the gameplay is 
 great. The only problem is there are a lot of hackers in this game compared to most others, which 
 is why I give gameplay an 8 instead of a 9 or 10. But if you don't suck you can still kill those 
 cheaters with a little effort.
  
  I have yet to play Counter-Strike: Source, but it appears to be the same but with suped-up graphics 
 and the new Source engine, which supposedly has perfected the physics aspect of gameplay.
  
  Great game, I would recommend it to anyone. It is also inexpensive, since Source is out now, 
 and it's pretty old. You can buy it with Half-Life, or you can purchase it seperately for about 
 $10. It's a good deal, in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ariel_king
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 3, 2006 1:42 am PT
Review:  I played this game and I was really impresed by it.
  
  Gameplay: If you played a FPS game before then you will probaly know what to expect from this. 
 First, you get a single player mode which gives you a lot of missions in each of difficulty. Then 
 there is the Multiplayer which is unbelivible. Sometimes the game can be a really pain in the butt 
 but still the game is really a blast.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are actually very disappointing for a game his time. The weapons look really 
 great and altought the areas are big, they just don't look right.
  
  Sound: The sound in this game is actually unbelivible. The weapon's sound are excellent but there 
 isn't music which is kind of a bumber.
  
  Value: If you a hardcore FPS fan, you can play for hours and hours trying to be the best in this 
 game. If you a normal fan then you can be really bored from this game.
  
  Reviewer's tilt: Overall this game is an excellent FPS game for the PC and you should really try 
 this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VMAN-Vercetti
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2006 5:47 am PT
Review:  Let's start with the start. PC gaming has never seen such proportions of urban domination. This 
 game is meant to represent your entire value, based on your experience.
  
  First time I spectated a server game I was shocked and amased. I saw the very meaning of contrast 
 between beginners and masters.
  
  Beginners were slow and were unaware of their surroundings. They just ran around trying to hit 
 someone. On the other hand, the most experienced players look around everywhere , not to get ambushed 
 and killed. They have an amazing aim and can dodge bullets and hide out fast.
  
  There aren't a lot of things to say about Counter-Strike except: "See it for yourself". Buy it! 
 and I mean it, buy it now or tommorow or just buy it if you haven't done so already because you'll 
 love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: disbadaszfool
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 25, 2006 8:51 am PT
Review:  This is one of the most addicting game i have played for the computer. The graphics may not be 
 great, but i don't mind because im playing on my crappy laptop.
  
  Here is an overview:
  
  Graphics - Although the graphics are not GREAT, they are still good enough to let me have fun! 
 9/10.
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay is so fun for an old school game, though there is no scoreboard : (. That's 
 alright though, it's still a great game, 9/10.
  
  Sound - The fact that i can say when i spot an enemy, throw a grenade, etc. Is just awesome, 10/10.
 
  
  Value - This is a must have game for the PC, and it's only $9.95! 10/10.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: whgresiak
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 16, 2006 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Counter Strike is a mod for half life. basically, You're either a Terrorist or Counter Terrorist. 
 There are a few different game types and many different maps. The first game mode is Activate/Defuse 
 Bomb, in this game mode the Terrorists try to plant a Bomb at one of two bombsites on the map. 
 The Counter Terrorists (CTs) try and prevent this and can defuse it if it is planted. The other 
 mode is Hostage resuce. The Terrorists (Ts) try to defned hostages and the CTs try and resucue 
 them. This game is simply amazing and is the number 1 online action game ever, with thounsads of 
 servers, millions of players, this game belongs in every PC Gamers Collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbc5714
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 15, 2006 3:09 pm PT
Review:  This is the best of all time FPS. Best game play a game could ask for. The only downsides are all 
 the hackers and poor graphics. Best FPS multiplayer to date, cant ask for more. Lots of weapons 
 and thousands of servers to choose from. Own your friends and family whenever and wherever you 
 want. Tons of maps to get and new maps are being made everyday. Lots of mods to make the game fun 
 and new. This game is also very cheap to buy and thousands of players on each day. Low requirements 
 for your PC so even a old computer can handle this amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Butters782
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2006 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This game has been able to hold the interest of thousands for years, even today when it's new version 
 has been out for a year. I myself have been playing since 2001, back when it was version 1.5, before 
 they added new weapons and better maps.
  
  Counter Strike is a great game to play, especially for people who like to mess around. There are 
 thousands of custom maps that let you do just that. You can have fun riding in a rollercoaster, 
 or traveling in wild west themed houses. The original's remain very popular for people who enjoy 
 blasting the heads off of people and who like to play rather than mess around.
  
  Being 8 years old, this game remains very popular, with more and more players joining every day. 
 I recommend this to anyone who loves to play shooters and mess around on maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dazman31
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 5, 2006 9:31 pm PT
Review:  Being named the biggest (most played) multiplayer game in the past few years is a big achievement 
 for this widely successful game and I love it. For the cheap price I got it at I think it's a steal 
 and I'm glad I got it because now you cannot find it anywhere. This game is as fun as any FPS and 
 is only multiplayer. In the Game you have the option of being either a Terrorist or Counter-Terrorist 
 and each has there own "characters" or models to choose from and both sides have there goods and 
 bads. The terrorists objective is to plant the bomb at the bomb-site and obviously the CT''s job 
 is disarm the bomb or kill all the T's. There are a different variety of weapons to choose from 
 on either side, ranging from pistols to machine guns.
  
  Being an internet game you can play either online on the internet or on LAN against your friends 
 in the other room. People from all over the world are highly addicted to the game as there are 
 always heaps of updates. I bought the game when CS 1.5 was being played but now there is CS 1.6 
 which includes different maps and weapons and involves using the highly controversial Steam. 
 
  
  It is a great game which will have you playing for hours on end, a must have 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crimsonphire
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 5, 2006 4:21 pm PT
Review:  This is the definition of a half-life mod. If you own half-life and you haven't played this yet, 
 you must not have friends or the internet, in which case you probably are not reading this article.
 
  
  Counter-Strike is a FPS that brings a new challenge to the genre. There are two teams; Terrorists 
 and Counter-Terrorists... kind of like when you were a kid and played Cowboys and Indians. At the 
 start of each round you must purchase your weapon set. This makes the game challenging as you have 
 many people with different weapon sets going against each other.
  
  The weapons have built-in inaccuracy and the game will be challenging if you play against people 
 who are good. The only gripe with this game and this is because I hate sitting around not playing, 
 is when you die you have to watch and wait till round end. This gets old, it is the way the game 
 is but I personally hate it, so this game gets a 9.7 instead of a 10. If the waiting were eliminated 
 or made an option (there are mods out there that change the game to instant spawn) then I would 
 give this a 10 out of 10.
  
  Taking fire need assistance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: uchitha
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 3, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  One superb game, the best multi-player game i've ever played. You never get fed up of this. Thanks 
 to the innovative idea which Id softwares gave after releasing Quake; without any doubt I would 
 rank this as the best multi-player game in the whole world. The reason is clear, unlike other games 
 this doesn't have many restrictions. The game engine is from a well known game Half-Life. This 
 allows you to create maps, add textures, put sounds and even add bots to the game so that you can 
 play with your own computer.
  
  There are thousands of servers available on the internet and after its first release they have 
 released lot of version and all of them have so far been successful. There are millions of ways 
 in which you could play game, strategies can be changed. The game engine is another hit this calculates 
 hits and other effects than any other multi-player game. I can easily write a book about this game 
 and even if you just type counter strike on any web search engine you get millions of results.
 
  
  The best multi-player game ever build. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stangsaleen2000
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 25, 2006 11:35 pm PT
Review:  Another mod to half-life. This one is just like team fortress, just a little more organized. This 
 time you are either terrorists or counter-terrorists. You work together to fight the other team 
 to either finish objectives or just to kill each other. Some of the problems is that some people 
 can hack the game or even become so good at the game you can only think that they are cheating 
 only to have such a lucky shot 5 times in a row. Anyway this game can be fun and addicting and 
 you will probably like it and stick to it for at least a week and like it. Just give it a shot 
 and thats all I have to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spic202
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 18, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  this was one of the first fps games that i got after halo and half life ( halo sucked big monkey 
 balls dont get it) .. i quit all the other games i used to play and stuc k with this one because 
 it was so funn and in one year i got so ggod better then some ppl that have benn playing since 
 1.3 and i managed to get in a new clan called -=} IT [=- and i pwn even though most of theppl that 
 play against me think that i hacke because i pwn so badly ( everyone thinks that i use aimbot and 
 walhack because i always use a smg or a sprayying gun) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saeed_lp_69
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 16, 2006 2:41 pm PT
Review:  Counter-Strike is the #1 online action game in the world. Engage in a realistic brand of counter-terrorist 
 warfare in this popular team-based game. Take out enemy sites. Rescue hostages. Your role affects 
 your team's success. Your team's success affects your role. 
  
  First released to the public on June 18th, 1999, Counter-Strike started out as just another fan-produced 
 mod for Half-Life. But thanks to a series of steadily improving beta releases, the mod started 
 to grow a very strong and dedicated following. As the team-oriented, tactical gameplay was refined 
 and improved and new concepts and maps were introduced, Counter-Strike became less and less of 
 a mere Half-Life mod and transformed into a whole new game. 
  Today, Counter-Strike by far the most popular online action game, with tens of thousands of users 
 playing at any given time. While sold separately in retail stores, Counter-Strike is still available 
 as a free download for existing owners of Half-Life. In Counter-Strike, players square off on one 
 of two teams: Terrorists or Counter-Terrorists. Each team has specific objectives for each map, 
 such as rescuing hostages, bombing a target, or escaping a certain area. Players earn money with 
 which they buy weapons, equipment, and ammunition based on how they perform. With realistic locations, 
 weapons, and physics, Counter-Strike is about as close as youll ever get to saving the world. 
 Or destroying it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jakeblaze
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 15, 2006 9:53 am PT
Review:  I'm not a lean-mean bad boy who love killing people whom i hate, but someone close to that and 
 in love with it i can do without hurting people in real life. And that's what game are for, to 
 express thing that are literally a master disaster for society, yet fun for it's what we desires 
 most in our life, excitement. Maybe it's not hot-sex with a four way with your girls next door, 
 but counterstrike living up to it's name as hype up first-person-shooter. Now there's alot of speculation 
 that game ruin a boys life, but i for once say that whoever say that never play counter strike 
 before in their life. Now please people understand that i'm not paranoid or anything but in the 
 process of giving an exact insight of how i rate counterstrike as, something must be overlook.
 
  
  Now most of us today can remember the good old day of Doom, the mother of all First-Person shooters. 
 Its gameplay had dramatically change the notion of Gaming itself in having created a phenomena 
 that everyone with a PC would waste their life away. For one thing that Doom has brought us in 
 the beginning is the pure adrenaline 3-D combustion and intense gameplay that still impact game 
 titles such as Half-life, Halo, and Counter strike itself. Building upon the half-life engine of 
 action gratification in popping some foolish alien or soldier, stupid enough to stand in front 
 of a 9mm automatic spraying machine thingy really bust-a-rhyme (if u know what i mean) . The game 
 is literally pure fun at first sight and nothing came close when you first start to play it at 
 first and among noobish or even pro friends. Unless you have your own computer and life-time supply 
 of saving, then you probably never felt the rush or addiction that one would harbor on first sight 
 of CS gameplay. It's intense, massive, frustrating, and as a matter of fact: a f***ing nice piece 
 of s**t right here. 
  If you play Doom, the WWII shooter series, or even Halo itself, this game rock hard in term of 
 action and filthy guy swiping your boots when he forgot to reload the damn Gun. If you are not 
 an action fan, then you might look for other thing because it's not for yall sissy who say such 
 violences are for thugs. This is purely for someone who like to show some retarted pus what a man 
 is made off when he rapidly fire an Ak47 at some Terrorists, killing them and then pull out a knife 
 to finally backstab a sad-lonely Osama Bin laden look alike who care less but to scratch his ass 
 in midst of a battlefield. Look people, action game are design to give player ability to kill thing 
 or shoot at thing like monsters (preferably other human asscrack is just fine) . Counterstrike give 
 all of that plus the option of humiliating other losers and witness one of a life-time dumb moment 
 of year, especially when you're among the guys who lined for a three-way kills that made me infamous 
 for some reason because they love to recieve lots 
  and lots OF red HOT LEAD in their skull. 
  OK enough with my achieving moment and start looking 
 at the graphic itself and it's basically: Average. No word could express it better that the graphic 
 are just plain right, nothing beautify or anything so cool like Halo stylish screenshot, but it 
 work. The sound also pretty much there and never really was any significant but it help if you 
 got some nice surround sound, when you pop alot of fools and the resounding victory music rang 
 out in your room, "I"M THE ONLY ONE." This is one of the greatest portion of this game, if you 
 are hook at first, then you most like spend a lifetime at less returning to the game looking for 
 some time to waste away in your room, talking filth to other players while you suck more than somebody's 
 grandma. Truthfully, there's something that sorta make CS a stepback and that is the amount of 
 appeal that last. It would stay with you for a while if you are doing good especially when you 
 kills alot of newb, but sooner or later you could feel the urge to play something else cuz you 
 stank worst than cow manure. Trust me, nothing last forever, but this game is worth the life to 
 throw away if you an action-shooter addict. Just hope you don't sue me for me saying it or i had 
 to own you several time because you don't understand the concepts of "short bursts".
  It's hard and it's fun, also addictive, load of massive people that have no-life wishing they can 
 turn into rebels who dream of world of flying pig for target and stupid chromdom looking for some 
 red-hot chilly leads up their you know what. Sign me up if you see one, cuz certainly someone had 
 to diminish those little scumbag the world like to call "Noob". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phicks85
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2006 12:14 pm PT
Review:  I got this for the simple reason of the online play. I have not even touched the single player 
 stuff, to be honest I'm not even sure if there is a single player mode. Anyhow... You can chose 
 between terrorist or Counter-Terrorist and each side has there own objectives to complete. The 
 game play ranges from bombing a target to rescuing hostages. There is always alot of people on 
 the servers but it is becoming kind of hard to find a serve with no mods on it. There are tons 
 of servers with the superhero or WC3 mods. I am not really into those. I recommend this game to 
 all of you who are hardcore online gamers. See you in the servers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewtyen
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 26, 2006 5:11 pm PT
Review:  Counterstrike came out in the year 2000 but the game is still played by many people today in the 
 year 2006. It is definitely one of the best multiplayer games ever made and one of the most popular. 
 The game lets one choose to be terrorists or counter terrorists. In each map there are different 
 objectives and goals for each side. Bombs must be set and diffused and hostages must be set free. 
 When beginning a game the player must buy their weapons. Once a player is dead he/she can not come 
 back until the next round. The game is fast paced enough to not get bored. Although the game is 
 kind of old now it is still a great game to play for any fan of First Person Shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenix1022
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 26, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  I remember when there wasn't even an actual game release for this one, and it simply was a mod 
 of Half-Life that you could download for free. You now have to pay money for games like this one 
 and the value may not really be all that high.
  
  This game in particular is a boat load of fun. You choose to be either side and take your team 
 against the other. The terrorists v. counter-terrorists. You have a base camp, which also acts 
 as your place to purchase weapons and armor. YOu can select from a variety of weapons, from machine 
 guns and sniper rifles to hand grenades and flash bombs.
  
  The multiplayer is fantastic, but you really only needed to download the mod for free to get the 
 general experience. The purchase game is good, but it doesn't really add enough to the experience 
 to warrant purchasing it. Now it may be a bit hard to find a good copy of the downloadable mod, 
 but you still have the option of purchasing the game. You also may want to see all of the work 
 that happens to connect newer versions with newer versions of Half-Life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Speedfreak_R
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 23, 2006 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life: Counter Strike is one of the best online shooters I have ever played. Its addicting, 
 tactical and so much fun! But since its an online mod for Half-Life with not too much depth, this 
 wont be a full length review.
  
  The gameplay is nearly the same as Half-Life, except for the fact that you fight against other 
 players around the world. And thats exactly whats so much fun. The graphics are good, not great. 
 Its just all a bit outdated. But the sounds are awesome. When you have a headset you feel like 
 youre being sucked right into the game.
  
  So thats all about this one. When you have Half-Life then I suggest you download this mod for 
 free and have some nice online fragging, cause its worth your time!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GizmoSimo
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2006 12:22 am PT
Review:  The game that led to making Counter-strike : source , this is basically one of the best if not 
 the best multiplayer first person shooters out there , basically choosing between being a terrorist 
 or a counter terrorist , you must team up with a bunch of other players to win the round by eliminating 
 all of the opposing forces or completing an objective which in the terrorists case is planting 
 the bomb and in the counter terrorists case deactivating the bomb or rescuing the hostages.
  
  There are many skillfull players lurking the servers of this awesome game , some players will 
 take you out with headshots without hesitating , you will find yourself wasting hours of your life 
 playing this game and enjoying it so much that you will try to become better and start practicing 
 till you do become a better player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BtMav
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 17, 2006 8:55 pm PT
Review:  Counter Strike 1.6 is the absolute greatest multi player game in the world. Sure it does take a 
 lot you need to make it a good game like a cpl gui and fix your rates, cmdrate, everyone knows 
 about that. One problem with this game is hackers, there everywhere, but if you can report them 
 to steam and their account will be banned. Counter Strike does take a lot of skill for scrims and 
 time to get good. Many people who dont like this game usually dont spend much time with it, but 
 if you do, you will love it forever. I got a friend to play it for 5 min and he stayed over and 
 played it till 5 in the morning!!! Greatest game for PC, way way better than Source. Keep it real 
 with CS 1.6. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theunwn
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 17, 2006 4:56 am PT
Review:  Counter Strike is a great game which can be played both online or lan. Its extremely fun to play 
 it with your friends in lan or with other players online. Even though this game is extremely old, 
 its an axcellent game and even now (6 years after its release) many Counter Strike contests are 
 held and it is one of the most played lan games. In Counter Strike you can choose to be a terrorist 
 or a counter-terrorist. Each have their own types of guns and costume and both are equally strong 
 (even though i like playing with CT) . Counter Strike has a lot of map and new maps and versions 
 come out almost everyday . Overall this game is extremely fun to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ownald
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 9, 2006 6:28 am PT
Review:  This game is just Brilliant! Do you think: Don't like the graphics... Well: Install some skins! 
 Or just create your own skins! I've a skin for every weapen even the bomb! So the graphics are 
 good enough if you install skins. But the gameplay... THAT ROCKS!! The bomb defuese maps makes 
 the game a tactical shooter but the fun maps makes the game a fps, brilliant! 10/10 for the gameplay. 
 Some people created "surf" maps for the game, and onther gaming style is born, again BRILLIANT! 
 Instead of choosing a weapon you have to buy one, great idea!
  
  But not everything is perfect of this game, there are still a few bugs in this game like the flahbang 
 bug and the skywalk bug. Maybe it's time for CS 1.7...? But the bugs makes the game more humoristic 
 and that's always good.
  
  Time to own some people huh..? Well with CS that isn't very simple. To pwn some people with this 
 game you have to know every box in every map. Know it? Well then it's time for the tactics, learn 
 the wallbang and "silent plant" locations.
  
  Counterstrike is the best clan game, even BF2's clangaming doesn't reach the level of counterstrikes 
 clangaming. With the small maps it's hard to plant a bomb without beeing detected. Difusing the 
 bomb is also not very easy.
  
  Greeting from OWNald, midskilled cs-er. (after 300 hours of cs-ing) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Souldishwasher
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 6, 2006 11:54 pm PT
Review:  This mod for the original Half-life is outstanding. All of my freshman year was spent playing this 
 game, until the newer edition Counter-Strike: Source came around. Not too much is too be said about 
 this game other than that its insanely addicting if you know what to do.
  
  When it was released in 2000, it was called the most popular online game and it still is. Counter-Strike 
 combines rescuing hostages, bomb defusing/planting and V. I. P. rescue. The game is in first-person 
 and you can choose to be terrorist or counter-terrorist. Neither side has an advantage or disadvantage, 
 but most like counter-terrorist. The most popular guns are the ak and m4. The ak is bought from 
 the terrorist side and the m4 is bought from the counter-terrorist side. There are small differences 
 in the guns, but are basically the same. 
  
  There are many mods for this mod of a game, but the fav out there is a warcraft3 mod which combines 
 levels and rpg spells into the fps perspective and is something to play if you get bored of the 
 original play. 
  
  I just felt like writing this review on a game that I love and adore. If you've never played it, 
 you have to download it from Steam A. S. A. P. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vornagar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2006 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Buy this game. It is a solid first-person shooter that will have you playing for hours at a time. 
 Although this game is quite old it is still played by thousands. An array of weapons and custom 
 maps keeps this game as fresh as the day you bought it. Gameplay is outstanding with different 
 modes like defusing the bomb or resucing the hostage. Being able to communicate via headset or 
 keyboard with the people you play is really fun. Although not the most graphically impressive game 
 the sound, gameplay, and replay value is worth the price alone. The price is cheap and you can 
 instantly connect and play with thousands. I recommend this version as opposed to source because 
 a lot of newbs play source. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-killaz
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 29, 2005 6:34 am PT
Review:  The Half Life Series is the best FPS on all console, But the Half Life Splits to many thing, and 
 the Counter-Strike is one of them, but it has somthing diffirent in it so here we are .
  
  1. The old Counter-Strike: It Has A great aciton moves in it and a great inventory of weapons in 
 it that you can choose from Old weapons to modern weapons and the online mode is too great
  
  2. Counter-Strike Condition Zero : It is great game that you can fly along the earth you can 
 go to many countries and you can pick up more than 29 weapon in your inventory as you can see you 
 can fight alone or with your mates you can use stealh mode you can use cameras you can use every 
 thing in the mlitary so this kind of game is too great
  
  3. Counter-Strike 1.6 : Thisgame is just like the old Counter-Strike but It has five new weapons 
 in it like (Famas, pluged, P Sheild And more)
  
  This is the whole counter strike events 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 26, 2005 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Ah, CS, the most famous Half-Life mod. In many instances, the popularity of this game recruited 
 many to buy Half-Life, and the fan base grows on an international level. The idea is sound, counter-terrorists 
 vs. terrorists. It makes sense in such modern times like today when this stuff is real. In my mind 
 this was a revolutionary mod that had millions flock online to play. In Asia there are internet 
 cafes where teenagers spend lots of money to play, sometimes days at one go. Anyway, this game 
 and other mods truly make the Half-Life engine shine, this was before the days of Steam, one of 
 the most annoying things out there. The thrill of playing as a terrorist, laying bombs, to the 
 noble actions of a CT, rescuing hostages and saving the day. Working with your teammates, shooting 
 your own teammates, camping, hacks... yes it's all here. This was the online game to play and is 
 the thing to have, even today - it's a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darthnaevus
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2005 10:33 am PT
Review:  The multiplayer experience has increased since that game... but that one was the daddy of all multiplayer 
 shooters... A classic shoot'n'dodge game...
  Why is it that popular? Simple, low specs needed, great gameplay, lots of guns and cool maps.... 
 Irresistible... The principle is quite simple... One team vs another but Valve made it so addictive 
 that it's still in several international gaming competitions... What a mess... Valve thought making 
 a good game, they made a legend. Now that he made his place, CS has newbies (like me) and veterans... 
 Quite unfair, you say? Learn to play and shoot first and fast, really really fast!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: wingzero2512
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 24, 2005 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Obviously this is the best FPS game on the planet for any system. I had this game since 2 years 
 after it came out. Amazing its still one of the games im only playing. I'm in cal-m so thats one 
 of the reasons ; ] 
  
  The graphics arnt the best for 2005. They arnt the worst either. Maybe in 1999 this was the game 
 to play. The game play is basically like halflife's but in a different game play : \
  Its online only unless you get condition zero which is a expansion of the game that has new skins 
 and a single player feature. The game is basically free with halflife, condition zero, or blue 
 shift, (possibly opposing force) . I like the game for the skill you need. The way you shoot, the 
 way you do everything depends on how you get that 5 man + ace. Don't get cs: s unless you are a 
 graphic wh*** because the game is horrible compared to cs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SZeroC
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 19, 2005 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Born to kill.
  Editor's note: Half-Life: Counter-strike was originally designed as a free downloadable Half-Life 
 mod, requiring a retail version of Half-Life to run. Its success, however, prompted Sierra to offer 
 two retail versions. For 30 bucks you can get CS, Team Fortress Classic, and multi-player versions 
 of Opposing Force and Half-Life. You can also grab the Platinum edition for 60 bucks, containing 
 all of the above as well as the full single player versions of Op Force and Half-Life.
  
  The is a review of Counter-strike itself, not a specific retail product. And with that...
  
 
  In the dark, swirling sea of multi-player mania swims a goliath. This man-eating leviathan lurks 
 at the depths of imagination and skill, luring hapless gamers to their certain demise with its 
 innocuous title, Counter-strike. "Ooh, another Half-Life mod," they think as they plug in. But 
 this is no normal spawn of any normal birth. This is the Rosemary's Baby of video games, a video-offspring 
 of demonic potential.
  
  The original Half-Life marked the pinnacle of single-player gaming. It comes as little surprise, 
 then, that this downloadable mod marks the pinnacle of the multi-player experience. Counter-strike 
 is the best multi-player game of 2000, bar none.
  
  The game is essentially a team-based first-person shooter. Action takes place in matches between 
 Terrorists and Counter-terrorists. While there are several maps, the missions are limited to kill\escort 
 a very important person to a helipad, prevent/cause destruction of a bombsite, and prevent/rescue 
 hostages. And, of course, any match ends with the death of everyone on a given team.
  
  Three mission types may seem like very few, but the variety of highly-realistic settings gives 
 the game greater weight and teases the imagination. As opposed to a flag mongering spaceman, you're 
 a terrorist bent on assassinating an American as he bolts across a rooftop - or you're an agent 
 out to stop the murder. Did I mention this wasn't a kid's game?
  
  Counter-strike's missions are set in dynamic, intuitively engineered environments. Imagine roaming 
 the streets of Italy or the back alleys of a middle eastern villa. It's incredibly absorbing and 
 detailed. Thanks to such dedicated level design, strategy is a huge part of the game. A team who 
 hopes to win must have a deep understanding of each level and its strategic strong and weak points.
 
  
  This brings me to teamwork, which is the most important aspect of the game. By using a money system, 
 the designers have tried to take the emphasis off of individual accomplishment (you only get 300 
 bucks per kill) and place it on team gains (4,000 dollars per win) . I guess the idea is that this 
 will force people to figure out and fulfill the true potential of the game; namely, the awesome 
 squad-based warfare.
  
  Unlike other team-based shooters, every player in CS is fundamentally the same and can fill any 
 role. In a sense, the weapons dictate the role; when equipped with a sniper rifle, a player's ability 
 to launch an up-close assault vanishes in place of the ability to accurately cover huge expanses 
 of terrain and deal death to any poor sod who dares a long range challenge. However, if said sniper 
 should suddenly need lightning assault capabilities, he could easily throw down his rifle for any 
 other gun he could find, as players drop their weapons when they die.
  
  Nothing can beat a coordinated, experienced team in CS, except an even more coordinated and experienced 
 team. Unless you're in a clan (this game may be the first good reason to join a clan, ever) , the 
 chances that you and your team will be able to perfectly coordinate are slight. Most teams in Counter-strike 
 are more 'mob' than 'team', and usually accomplish little more than collective death. Games often 
 come down to the 3 or 4 extremely skilled players on each server.
  
  However, team talk allows you to pull together a bit. Chatting is the only medium of communication 
 (other than shooting each other) between teammates, and the only way to bring other team-members 
 in on a plan. Live players can't communicate with dead players, so much of the planning must be 
 done early on in the match. The best teams, of course, don't need to talk.
  
  While the potential for team play is definitely astounding, the expertise to be attained by yourself 
 is nothing short of mind-blowing. I've never played a game in which there was such room to grow 
 and evolve as a player. I've been playing this game for 6 months and I'm still getting better.
 
  
  The only danger here is that Counter-strike might be hard to get into for gamers who are frustrated 
 by starting off at square one. You'll get blown off the map a few times before scoring some kills. 
 Trust me.
  
  However, rookie players have more opportunity than ever to learn quickly, since Counter-strike 
 only allows a single death per round. Once you die, that's it until everyone on one team has screamed 
 their last. Upon your demise you enter "Free mode," a spectator mode that allows you to watch the 
 remainder of the battle unfold. This is the perfect opportunity to study the tactics of those better 
 than you, so even though you aren't necessarily playing, you're still learning and still involved 
 in the game.
  
  Unique to Counter-strike is the complexity of the guns. At first the gun selection seems boring 
 - there's no plasma launcher or fire spewer. It's just gun after gun after gun. However, the guns 
 are much more complicated than your usual point and click operation. If used carelessly, most guns 
 are useless and inaccurate. Only through practice and experimentation can gamers hope to unlock 
 the murderous potential behind each gun's trigger.
  
  The guns are also balanced in a way as to ensure that the player always has enough money for a 
 fairly lethal instrument. While the Arctic Wolf sniper rifle is undoubtedly the most powerful, 
 destructive weapon in the game, it costs $4,600 dollars. The MP5 Navy SMG costs only $1500 and 
 is excellent for almost all normal fighting. You'll never feel unequipped.
  
  On the other end of the barrel, damage is taken extremely quickly. Most guns have the potential 
 to score a one shot kill (direct Arctic Wolf hits are always fatal, even if you take a hit in the 
 foot) , and the average run-ins with bullets take off at least half your health. Dying is extremely 
 easy in Counter-strike, but so is killing.
  
  The graphics are decent, identical in most every way to Half-Life. The animations are a bit dated, 
 but it's nothing to scoff at. Oh well. There can always be new maps.
  
  Finding good servers is always a concern when it comes to online play. As perhaps the most popular 
 multi-player game in town, CS features literally thousands of servers at any one time. You'll almost 
 always find guys to play with.
  
  The only real flaw with CS is a ridiculous one. Apparently, the designers wanted gamers to be able 
 to really customize their skins, so they left most of that portion of the game open-ended. The 
 result is that anyone with a decent knowledge of scripts or the tenacity to download them can cheat 
 pretty mercilessly. With the right scripts, players can turn invisible, make enemies appear brighter, 
 make themselves look like their enemies, and even crash servers! This blows. Fortunately, it doesn't 
 happen often and it doesn't take admins long to boot cheaters when they pop up, but every once 
 in awhile it can ruin a really good game. Such is the life of online play.
  
  I couldn't possibly cover all the techniques to be learned in Counter-strike. Suffice to say that 
 they all come together to make a serious life taker/heart breaker. The more you play CS, the more 
 you'll know and the better you'll do. I love a game that rewards being played, and CS rewards patience 
 and practice like none other.
  
  Quick word about the pricing. As mentioned at the top of this review, for 30 bucks you can get 
 CS, Team Fortress Classic, and multi-player versions of Opposing Force and Half-Life. Alternately, 
 you can likely find a copy of Half-Life for around 20 bucks, then download CS for free. Either 
 way, this is well worth the money.
  
  Half-Life: Counter-strike has redefined online play. This game has more potential and more online 
 gaming goodness than any other game I've ever played. While better things surely await us in the 
 future, Counter-strike is a video game revolution you can take part in right now.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shade_boy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2005 8:28 am PT
Review:  Very stronge online play mix with tons of weapons and items make one of the best online 1st person 
 shooters on the market to date (still after like 5 years it is still one of the best)
  There are tons and tons of maps to play one with around 5 different game types. you can pick your 
 team between tourist and counter-terrorist and each side gets special weapons unique to that team. 
 like the CT get M4s and the Terroists get AK-47. their are also 4 different units to each side 
 you can choose from. These characters are lacking alittle detail but its still really good graphics 
 for a game made in 1999. 
  This is the best counter strike in the series (but the new CS source might beat it but alot of people 
 still think this one is better) its golden. 
  There is voice chat system and typeing is there to. its just a great game and you should really 
 get it no matter who you are. (well most people should buy it anyway) its a great game with really 
 good gameplay and sound and graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Allehelgens
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 12, 2005 4:55 pm PT
Review:  If anyone hasn't played this game by now, shame on you. With two other versions of Counter-Strike 
 available now the original might not seem like a good place to start. Not true, with the bugs not 
 all sorted out with Counter-Strike: Source and with Condition Zero not adding much of anything 
 Counter-Strike is a pretty good start for anyone new to the game.
  You are either a Terrorist or a Counter-Terrorist, pretty self explanitory there. If you don't 
 know what a terrorist is though, you need to go back to elementary school. If you are a terrorist 
 you try and set a bomb at a specific spot in a level, or guard hostages you have captured, sounds 
 easy right... wrong. This is a multi-player game, so you have people with reflexes and experience 
 with the game to destroy you... until the next round. As a Counter-Terrorist you are to do the opposite 
 of what the Terrorists do, you have to disarm a bomb they have planted or guard the bomb if you've 
 killed the carrier, and rescue the hostages they've captured. Or, you can do what this game is 
 meant for... just flat out killing everybody in a team deathmatch.
  With all of the killing you'll be doing you have to choose the right weapon right? Yes, Counter-Strike 
 is not short on any kind of firearm to blast your enemy away with. Although the developers thankfully 
 did not include rocket launchers or grenade launchers, because that just wouldn't be fair at all. 
 However they did include a nice hefty machine gun packing 100 bullets per clip, allowing no one 
 to escape as you mow them down. Along with the massacre weapon there are the more, shall I say, 
 traditional weapons. Five types of hand guns, three types of sniper rifles semi-automatic and automatic, 
 with about three or four semi-automatic rifles. Not to mention two shotguns, which you probably 
 won't be using, and three SMGs. Nice as all this is it cannot beat the knife, the ultimate slap 
 in the face to be killed by.
  Hopefully you will at least give Counter-Strike a try, if not this one Source or Condition Zero. 
 You WILL have fun with this game if your looking for a nice competative FPS. 
  Side-note: Counter-Strike 1.6 has the most mods of any of the games out, with the most custom maps, 
 since this game has been out for the longest its what you should expect. Happy hunting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormmaster
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2005 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Part of the experiance of CS (besides the mindblowing gameplay) is the community. Kids cussing, 
 adults screaming "WHAT THE F#@$ you F@#$ing F$#! tard F@#$ F@$! ass hacker, c0@& sukin n1$#@%s!!!" 
 so get a headset, its part of the experiance. ok, so the graphics arent good for now, but this 
 game still rocks!! WAYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYYY better then source! I have soooo much fun with this game, 
 there are tons of little features that make this game better! I promise you, that when you get 
 this game you will have many all night games. This is my absoulute favorite game, and im not even 
 good at it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Moogleknight
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 25, 2005 4:16 pm PT
Review:  This is the most 1337 game and is not for n00bs at all. If you do decide to go get this game, remember 
 that you shouldn't hax0r in secure servers because you will probably be teh kicked. The first few 
 times you play it you will probably get pwned by the vets if you go into a regular server. But 
 I would like to warn you that this game may become your life and your past life will slowly deteriorate 
 with time.
  
  The Good: Well, it is one of the greatest games ever.
  
  The Bad: The game takes time to get good at, at first you WILL get pwned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cardana
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 20, 2005 5:08 pm PT
Review:  What can i say about this game? Is it great? it's the greatest! does it loose any interest over 
 time? well... not in the last 5 years :D are the graphics great? well... nor great but not awful! 
 addictiveness level: VERY HIGH!
  EXTREME! 
  My favorite game ever without a doubt! I've been playing it since the late 90's and God... i can't 
 get bored of it! with millions of players worldwide this is the mos successfull multiplayer game 
 ever, and it's a well deserved title as well.
  not a 10 because of the graphics but a deserved 9.5 ;) I encourage everyone to buy this title, 
 nowadays it's quite cheap and you'll find it the greatest bargain ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: defyance3
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 20, 2005 12:29 am PT
Review:  For me, this is by fair the best multiplayer game ive played. People will think im crazy, but it 
 is true. This game is the best LAN experiance you can find and the community base is un matchable. 
 The graphics are a bit out of date, but CS doesn't live or die by it's graphics. The game play 
 is completey deadly. I played this game through the night many times. If you enjoy shooters or 
 online PC games, this is a must have.
  
  How expensive is it now? Free. You can legally accuire CS for free now and it also comes with Half-life/ 
 Halif-life 2. Just try it out ONCE, and you will be thanking me after. The game takes a while to 
 get a handle on because of the many veterans playing now. Clans are also a fun part of the game. 
 CS is also a part of leagues and competative gaming. The sound is also very well done.
  
  JUST TRY IT ONCE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skerdi29
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 5, 2005 3:40 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the most played games on my country (Albania) . There are some internet centers 
 that have this game. We all play this game. Is the best. Just play it! And have fun. BYE BYE BYE BYE 
 BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE 
 BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE 
 BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE 
 BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE 
 BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luketurnerpoo99
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 2, 2005 4:55 am PT
Review:  Okay so this game is like 4 years old and doesn't have the greatest of graphics. The one area that 
 this game shines in is gameplay. Oh my word. Your not gonna want to put the game down once you 
 start figuring out how to get some kills and work together. It's hard at first and the first 8 
 or 9 times that I played this game I got annhilated without a hope for a win. I'd get a kill every 
 now and then but it would be luck shots that I had got in while hanging back and spraying the terrorist 
 crowd with bullets. It's hard but soon you'll get the hang of it and won't want to put it down. 
 I've recently settled down on a server (PSL lounge rules!) and become one of the regulars. I love 
 this game and once you get the hang of this game you'll start to notice all the flaws in CS Source. 
 This game is all substance and I would reccomend it to anybody. 
  
  Lukeass The Gunslinger of PSL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cyclops28486
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 28, 2005 7:49 pm PT
Review:  One of the best games made by mankind... CS changd the face of multiplayer gaming genre.... It 
 prompted developers like Epic to come forward with UT, and Quake etc... Its one hell of a game, 
 and being an addict of this g ame, spending loads of cash in gaming cafes, and spending hours practicing 
 it. 
  
  The game that revolutionised players, inspired people to leave everything just to play this one 
 game. A game that introduced players like "Metho" "shaguar" "kSharp" "SpawN" "Potti" "Heaton" "Sunman" 
 Welll you get the picture rite ???.. Its just too good man!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stpid
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 25, 2006 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This isn't the most popular online shooter game for no reason. It is the peak of online shooters 
 in terms of gameplay. This is one of those games that people actually can get addicted to. Basically 
 all this game is, is a online FPS comprised of Terrorists vs Counter-terrorists. Two teams are 
 spawned on different points in the map and the headshotting begins! It creates a massive adrenaline 
 rush when you play. I have literally spent days playing this game over the past 4 years. It's gameplay 
 and gun damage is pretty much perfect in comparison with many of todays shooters. Probably the 
 only flaws for this game are the learning curve and the graphics. Remember that this is an old 
 game so don't expect Doom 3 style graphics. The other problem was that the game is really not friendly 
 to newbs. However persistance shall pay off. Considering I only paid around 30 dollars for this 
 game and it provided me with over 100 hours of gameplay then I proclaim that this is the most replayable 
 game ever. Counter-Strike is just a masterpiece in the FPS genre. It is also the pinnacle of modding. 
 With great reluctance, I give this game a low 8.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hittin
Rating: 9.6
Date: Oct 18, 2005 9:57 am PT
Review:  First there was half life 1, the game that peopel at the time thought was awesome, and people still 
 think its awesome now, but when half life 2 came out, with the source engine, half life 1 was starting 
 to get forgotten, but half life 1's mod Counter-Strike 1.6 has made sure half life 1 will never 
 be forgotten.
  Why? well i will explain now
  Counter strike 1.6 has the most people playing on it, there are just over 6000 servers on counter 
 strike 1.6, there are like 4500 servers on counter strike source.
  Counter strike 1.6 hasnt got laggy hitboxes, which is kinda off a big problem in counter strike 
 source
  the way you kill people in counter strike 1.6 is way better than the way you kill people in counter 
 strike source, and you get loads more enjoyment
  counter strike 1.6 may not have better graphics, but it feels more real life, and its aiming is 
 fair, while in counter strike source there are way too many noobs.
  i gave counter strike source a 9.0 when i frist got it because i enjoyed it, but counter strike 
 deserves a 9.6 for me, but no game beats half life 2, but counter strike source is still fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeMoNRiFLe
Rating: 9.8
Date: Oct 17, 2005 9:25 pm PT
Review:  I can't explain how much I still love the good ol' Counter-Strike. Been playing it since the early 
 1.4 Beta days, and till this day I can't get enough. 
  
  It's not that Counter-Strike has great graphics or a interesting storyline or breathtaking cut 
 scenes. In fact what makes Counter-Strike such a great game, is the gameplay. Plain and simple, 
 fast and fun this game becomes extremely addicting, why? Because there is the ability to become 
 a Pro in this game. When you start off playing Counter-Strike you're a super noob, this isn't your 
 ordinary shoot and kill. With this game you actually have to put your reflexes to work, shooting 
 the head and vital body parts can really make a difference of who comes out winning in the gun 
 fight. 
  
  In a way it's kind of hard for me to explain Counter-Strike, there are so many good players out 
 there so many maps and modes you'll be playing for years, and if you get good enough you can joing 
 Leagues like the CPL where the top teams win up to $40,000!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalslugx3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Oct 17, 2005 8:27 pm PT
Review:  This game doesn't have the best graphics in the world (run on HL1 engine) but it has something 
 that all gamers require in a game which is GAMEPLAY.
  For me graphics are second on my priority list, the fun-factor of the game comes first. Counter-Strike 
 doesn't cost much and you can get into a server instantly and frag away.
  
  Competitive and fun is what makes Counter-Strike one of the best online FPS shooters in a long 
 time. You can go into a pub and frag all day in one of the thousands of servers out there or you 
 be competitive and join leagues to face other people. 
  
  www. caleague. com - Amateur League for competitive gamers (high rated)
  
  www. worldogl. com - 
 Amateur League for competitive gamers (low rated)
  
  www. thecpl. com - To really test your teams skill. (need money)
  
  www. cevolved. com - Amateur 
 League for competitive gamers (costs money to participate)
  
  www. nationalesports. com - Amateur League for competitive gamers (costs money to participate)
 
  
  
  
  Competitive Information
  ___________________
  
  www. gotfrag. com
  
  www. esreality. com
  
  www. sk-gaming. com
  
  www. gamers. nu
  
  www. fragbite. com
  
  
 www. ampednews. com
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: G4mbl3
Rating: 9.1
Date: Sep 10, 2005 1:34 pm PT
Review:  This is it. Counter Strike. The name alone brings memories after memories. CS is cosidered revolutionary 
 in some ways. CS made way for mods, that's something that no one can argue against. After CS, mods 
 after mods spewed out of nowhere in all games. CS is THE greatest mod ever, in my honest opinion. 
 The gameplay is so simple, two teams battle it out to defend or attack an objective. Easy enough? 
 Think again. This game is challenging as HELL. I promise you'll want to quit as soon as you try 
 it. Don't. This game is one of those games where you have to practice daily. If you don't, you're 
 as good as dead. Most players are just crazy good so it might take you a while to find a server 
 that matches your skill level. Once you do, that's when the fun starts. Actually it's when you 
 play with a group of friends or a clan that you have spent time knowing and playing with. Once 
 you get a mic and you start getting better, you will be addicted to this game. And that's the downside 
 of CS - the addictiveness. I've lost some grades to CS admittedly but hell, I couldn't help it. 
 I still play it to this day in 2005 where games like FEAR and Doom 3 with super high tech graphics 
 exist. This game is a good example of the old saying "gameplay over graphics". I highly recommend 
 you try it out if you already havn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supreme_dar
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 26, 2005 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Counter-Strike is a First Person Shooter for the PC, which you play over the internet against other 
 human opponents and it's a game that you'll get for free when you have bought Half-Life. It is 
 a game that is very addictive and keeps on being improved on.
  
  The reason that Counter-Strike is very addictive is easy to explain. It is that the fact that you 
 keep wanting to play more after you've been killed. In the beginning you might wonder why people 
 make such a fuzz about this game, but once you've killed a person you keep getting back for more, 
 because of the satisfaction you'll get for finally killing someone.
  
  In Counter-Strike there are two teams: the terrorists and the counter-terrorists. The terrorists 
 are the "bad" guys and their mission is to bombard a place or to keep hostages or even to kill 
 a VIP. On any of the official maps, any of these three are their main objectives.
  
  The counter-terrorists are the "good" guys and you could even refer to them as the police or a 
 SWAT force. Their mission is to prevent the terrorists to bombard a place by protecting it, to 
 save the hostages if there are any or to escort or to escort a VIP safely to the helicopter in 
 order for him to escape. On any of the official maps these are their main objectives.
  
  Of course there are easier ways to win a round than following any of these main objectives and 
 that is when every terrorist has been killed by the counter-terrorist, which results in a win for 
 the counter-terrorists and vice versa.
  
  Another way to win a round is one that takes the most time to achieve, which is by running out 
 of time on the map. Every map has a time limit and when you run out of time, depending on which 
 map you're playing on, the counter-terrorist or the terrorists have won.
  
  If you're playing on a de_ map, which is a demolition map, the counter-terrorist will win when 
 the time is up, because they have successfully protected the area and the terrorist weren't able 
 to bombard the place.
  
  If it's a cs_ map, which is a hostage map, the terrorists will win when the time is up, because 
 the counter-terrorists weren't able to save the hostages.
  
  If it is an as_ map, which is an assassination map, the terrorists will win when the time is up, 
 because the counter-terrorists weren't able to protect the VIP by escorting him to the helicopter.
 
  
  Once you've been killed in battle you won't respawn immediately, but you must wait until the round 
 has ended. For beginners this might seem stupid, since they're most likely to be killed very early, 
 but once you've mastered some skills, the waiting become less annoying if you end up dying.
  
  The handling for each weapon is very different and the recoil of each weapon is something you 
 should get used to. This is also why this is a hard game for beginners, because other FPS have 
 very different recoil or no to very little recoil, while some of the most powerful weapons (AK-47, 
 M4a1) have very much recoil.
  
  While these three types or map are the official maps, there are all kinds of other types of unofficial 
 maps and gameplay modes in Counter-Strike these days. There are aim_ maps where there focus is 
 to improve your aim, by shooting at each other from great distances.
  
  Another very fun type of map are kz_ maps, which stands for kreedz, the creator of these maps. 
 These maps however are very different than the other maps, because the goal of these maps is not 
 on shooting or winning. The only thing you do on these maps is climbing to reach the end of the 
 level. This may sound dull, but it is a fun game that exists in Counter-Strike and is gaining popularity 
 over the years.
  
  When you're looking for more variety, but not that extreme as kz_ maps, then there are gameplay 
 mods that exists in counter-strike. Two of the most popular gameplay mods are game servers with 
 a Warcraft 3 Mod or Super Hero mod. In these mods, you'll play the same game, with the same objectives, 
 but the only difference is that you'll have super-natural powers. These mods also are gaining very 
 much popularity, especially the Warcraft 3 mod.
  
  Another mod that is currently gaining some popularity are Capture the Flag mods and Team Death 
 Match mods, within Counter-Strike. These are quite fun mods to play as, but trying to find servers 
 that have these mods at the moment is very hard, but they're gaining in popularity, so maybe in 
 a few years they might be as popular a the other mods that are currently available.
  
  The audio and video aren't that impressive by these days standards, but at the time it was released, 
 these were very nice.
  
  I never heard a real AK-47 being shot with or a M4a1, so I can't say that the sounds in this game 
 are as realistic as if they were being shot in real life. By comparing these sounds with other 
 games however, I must say that they sound very credible and realistic compared with what we've 
 seen in movies and other games.
  
  The video hasn't improved very much since it has been released, which means that if you're playing 
 this game until this day, you are playing a game on a five year old software, which is very outdated. 
 The graphics don't look very realistic and some special effects like an explosion of a grenade 
 or a the smoke of a smoke grenade, don't look/sound very realistic, by these days standards.
  
  This game is very popular and that is mainly because if it's replayability. You can play any 
 of these game modes an infinite number of times and you will still not get tired of what this game 
 has to offer. This game is over 5 years old now, but still this is one of the most played games 
 over the internet.
  
  This is a very addictive game and once you've tried it, you'll love it. This game isn't that expensive 
 nowadays, so buying this game will definitely not regret you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buick87GNXv6
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 24, 2005 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - The gameplay in CounterStrike has it's own "realistic" feel to it. 3 shots to down a 
 man, flashbangs blind and disrupt your hearing, stuff like that. Players move somewhat quicker 
 then the real life counterparts they assume. But realistically enough when you pull out the knife 
 you run even faster. The physics aren't really well planned out as grenades move rather slow through 
 the air and bodies fall with pre-configured movement.
  
  Sound - The sound is mediocre compared to the newer games out. Flashbangs and HE Grenades are subtle 
 but discretely displayed in sound and visual. The same monotonous voice comes on whenever you throw 
 a grenade or recall on teammates. Guns sound realistic by far from anything else which kind of 
 makes up for the lack of all the downfall.
  
  Graphics - Back in the day these graphics were "great and promising" but compared to today's games... it 
 is quite difficult to even say they're "okay". But although the graphics may not be the best, people 
 still come back to play because of it's multiplayer element.
  
  Value - For $19.99 this game is a steal and well worth the purchase.
  
  Conclusion - Although 
 this game may not be the benchmark in sound and visuals, people still come back to this game for 
 it's fun and core gameplay.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Payasoplas
Rating: 1.1
Date: Jul 24, 2005 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Everyone likes Counter-Strike, and I don't understand why, is unplayable, there's no way to play 
 it, and even if you can manage to join a game, many things happen, you will be kicked out because 
 everyoe is member of some clan or something, then even if you have the best internet connection 
 in the world, the host will kick you out because so much playing Counter-Strike has damaged his 
 brain and he things that you are a lagger.
  
  This is the kind of game that should be played with the right people, but everyone is the wrong 
 people, so it's not worth playing it.
  
  When a miracle happens and nobody kicks you out and then you can join a game (that happens after 
 a lot of time) then you'll be ready to know what is that all excitement about, it's like being 
 in the line in a theme park, so much trouble to play it should be worth, right?
  
  SORRY, BUT THE ANSWER IS NO!!!!!
  
  Let's begin by the horrible graphics, I know this is a 
 mod for Half-Life, but for some reason it redefines the concepts of "UGLY" and "DEFORMED", but 
 not everything is graphics, the important part is the gameplay.
  
  Well, this is where the game really makes you wonder, why everyone loves this thing?
  
  Counter-Strike 
 is supposed to be a tactical game like Rainbow Six or SWAT, BUT NO, IT'S NOT...!!!! It's just a 
 simple GOTCHA, but everyone thing that is a truly tactical and realistic game, the game should 
 be called "GOTCHA 2000" or something like that.
  
  In the end, avoid this game at all costs, it's a waste of time and a worthless download, if you 
 want a real game go for the original Half-Life, or if you prefer a counter terrorism game, go for 
 Rainbow Six Rogue Spear, that's a real excellent game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ryland14m89
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 3, 2005 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Allright I first got this game in February of 2005. I don't have that good of a computer and my 
 friends said it was a good game so I got a key code for it and registered it on STEAM. I jumped 
 right into the game.
  
  I joined a server and realized how much I suck at this game. Everyone there was better than me 
 and I realized I got like 1 kill every 25 deaths. lol. I decided I'd have to practice more on this, 
 that's what you have to do in a game like this. Yeah, it's been about 5 months since then and I 
 have gotten better. My bestest score so far I've gotten is 44-0. (Proving that you need to practice 
 at a game like this)
  
  So the game is actually quite simple to figure out what to do. They have teams: Terrorists and 
 Counter-Terrorists. They have different map classifications: DE = Defuse, CS = Hostage Retrieval, 
 AS = Assassinate, and also a bunch of maps you can download that are custom like FY, SURF, and 
 KA. You can figure those out once you play the game if you haven't already.
  
  Okay so the point of the game is the Terrorists do the bad stuff :) and the CT's have to save the 
 day :) . The game is played in rounds. You can buy stuff at the beginning of each round at your 
 spawn. DE maps Terrorists have to plant the bomb while CT defuses, CS T's have to hold hostages 
 while CTs come in and rescue, AS maps CTs have to lead a VIP to a safety helicopter for rescue. 
 All in all, while this is going on, there is live gunfire, people dying, grenades being thrown, 
 and people lurking around every corner.
  
  You need some instinct and common sense to play this game. Reaction is a big part of this game, 
 if you have extremely slow reaction, you are basically in for a long time of gameplay and still 
 might not even be that good at it. So practice and practice, but don't let it take over your life.
 
  
  The guns in the game are awesome. They have such guns as Pistols: Glock, USP, Desert Eagle; SMGS: 
 MP5 Navy, TMP, MAC10; Shotguns: Pump Shotgun, Auto Shotgun; Rifles: Galil, Famas, AK47, M4A1, and 
 Sniper Rifles like AWP, Schmidt Scout, and Auto-Snipers. They also have a Machine Gun, the M249 
 Para. You can select this equipment at the buy screen. There is also equipment to buy such as Grenades, 
 Armor, Defusal Kits, Tactical Shields, etc. Also you need to practice on the aiming of guns and 
 the recoil. The recoil is kinda crazy in this game. You need to learn how to control it by not 
 holding down the trigger all the time.
  
  So yeah, Counter-Strike is now like a part of my family to me :) . I play it almost every day and 
 it is just so addicting it makes me happy! This game doesn't cost that much and is a great game 
 for any computer. Even though the graphics aren't all that great, it doesn't matter. The gameplay 
 of this game will blow you away. You will be hooked in no time, and remember: Practice makes good 
 at Counter-Strike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 043030
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2005 7:29 am PT
Review:  Forget all other multi player games. Counter-Strike is the king. This game is easily the most popular 
 online experience right now, even years after its release. 
  
  When people first played Half-Life, who would have thought something else, just as great could 
 have been created?
  
  Counter-Strike is a tactical shooter, involving terrorist and counter-terrorists operations. This 
 game is the most realistic game ever made. You will die very easily and your weapons must be used 
 correctly. Holding down the mouse won't help you here, this isn't Doom or Duke Nukem. There are 
 over 20 guns in total, and some exclusive terrorist and counter-terrorist weapons. You can also 
 buy equipment, such as night-vision, grenades, flashbangs and armour. 
  
  Although there are only three game types, hostage rescue and bomb plant/defusal and VIP protection, 
 Counter-Strike will never get boring. Servers can contain up to 40 people, and firefights become 
 very exciting. There are excellent maps in Counter-Strike, including Inferno and Dust.
  
  If Counter-Strike excels in one thing, it is lastabilty. It wil last you ages, and will never play 
 the same way twice!
  
  With the release of Counter-Strike Source, with Half-Life 2's excellent Source Engine, we are going 
 to see the king resume his reign of terror. No online game can compete!
  
  If you have any common sense, you will already have Counter-Strike or will be rushing out to get 
 it as soon as you read this review. If not, I pity you.
  
  Counter-Strike. You. Now. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: R3B311I0N
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 1, 2005 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Go Go GO!!! The bomb has been planted. All right, lets move out.
  
  Why am I saying things like that? Because those are just two of the many things you will hear while 
 playing Counter Strike. Other things will include the famous "1337" and "pwm". Also, all of these 
 words and phrases have found their way into my everyday vocabulary. No longer to I say somthing 
 is "great" no no no.. everything is now "1337". Yes, counter strike is that addicting people. Its 
 just so engrossing that no matter how hard you try. You just cant get enough of it. But beware, 
 n00bs are gonna go though hell the first couple of months. Why? Because everyone that plays the 
 current version of the Half Life 1 edition of CS, 1.6, are uber 1337. So if you havent played CS 
 before, prepare to die, a lot. This is mostly due to the fact that the weapons in Counter Strike 
 exhibit realistic recoil. In other words, even if your cusor is lined up perfectly with that CT's 
 head, your bullet ain't gaurenteed to go there. This takes a lot of time getting used to, but theres 
 no feeling quite like getting ur first headshot from pure skill.
  
  Another fustrating part of CS for n00bs to get used to is the fact that all damage is realistic. 
 Unlike Quake or Unreal, you cant takes dozens of machine gun rounds and keep going, after about 
 3-5 hits, if you are lucky enough to get hit in the arm each time, you're dead.
  
  Which brings in reason number 3 why CS is fustrating for n00bs, stealth. Yes, a lot of your time 
 will be spent sneaking around crates and making sure you arnt making any noise. Getting used to 
 sneaking around and not just runnning around circle strafing and firing off hundreds of rounds 
 with your assault rifle is difficult, but like I said, its worth it. The game is just crafted perfectly. 
 The awesomw assortment of weapons (but a lot of them are off limits due to being unfair as an unwritten 
 rule, prepare to be flamed if u get caught using the auto shottie, aka "the n00b cannon") and the 
 vast amount of items make the game incredibly strategic. Not to mention incredibly fun, once you 
 get used to CS's unique features.
  
  Graphically, the game is going to fail to impress by todays standards. Remember that CS 1.6 is 
 based off the Half-Life 1 engine, a game released in 1998, but they get the job done. 
  
  Sounds are awesome in this game, As not only are they well done, but sound is a major factor in 
 gameplay. You pretty much need a headset to get the full CS experience, as knowing what direction 
 sound such as footsteps are coming from is key to staying alive.
  
  Controls are spot on, as with most PC FPS's. wasd takes care of movement and mouse takes care of 
 aiming and firing. As well as switching firing method of your weapon, if it applies. There are 
 a couple of other buttons, such as q for quick switch, and e for defusing the bomb.
  
  Overall, this is by far the best online game, and one of the best shooters Ive ever played. The 
 only re4ason this game doesnt get a 10 by me is because the graphics arnt up to par with todays 
 games. But still, this is a must buy. Get CS. Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Mana_Master
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 18, 2005 1:25 pm PT
Review:  This is the greatest multiplayer first person shooter ever made in my opinion.
  
  The gameplay is, fun, immersive, enjoyable, damn addictive and really engaging. It can be challenging 
 at times but that depends on who you are facing.
  
  The graphics are very good since this game was made in 2000. They are smooth, crisp and clean.
 
  
  The sound is very realistic. Each gun sounds real!
  
  This game will keep you playing for years and years and years. I have played it for almost 10 hours 
 a week for 3 years.
  
  This game is an excellent buy due to the fact that it will make you happy for eternity.
  
  
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flip_kc79
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 16, 2005 4:51 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - The gameplay in CounterStrike has it's own "realistic" feel to it. 3 shots to down a 
 man, flashbangs blind and disrupt your hearing, stuff like that. Players move somewhat quicker 
 then the real life counterparts they assume. But realistically enough when you pull out the knife 
 you run even faster. The physics aren't really well planned out as grenades move rather slow through 
 the air and bodies fall with pre-configured movement.
  
  Sound - The sound is mediocre compared to the newer games out. Flashbangs and HE Grenades are subtle 
 but discretely displayed in sound and visual. The same monotonous voice comes on whenever you throw 
 a grenade or recall on teammates. Guns sound realistic by far from anything else which kind of 
 makes up for the lack of all the downfall.
  
  Graphics - Back in the day these graphics were "great and promising" but compared to today's games... it 
 is quite difficult to even say they're "okay". But although the graphics may not be the best, people 
 still come back to play because of it's multiplayer element.
  
  Value - For $19.99 this game is a steal and well worth the purchase.
  
  Conclusion - Although 
 this game may not be the benchmark in sound and visuals, people still come back to this game for 
 it's fun and core gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rigges
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 16, 2005 1:19 am PT
Review:  Well, its been a long time but I just decided to review this game after playing it for the past 
 few years! Can't write a better review than with one with so much backing it.
  
  For its time, Counter-Strike was different. It wasn't as fast as games like Unreal and Quake 2, 
 and it didn't want to be. The game involved listening for foot steps, thinking about where you 
 are going and carefully aiming for the head, not relying on splash damage. The result? Everyone 
 loved it.
  
  Counter-Strike brought a new level of realism to gaming, from the recoil on the guns you use, to 
 modern day weapons that we can all relate to. They took the brave step of removing the rocket launcher 
 from the game completely and adding weapons such as a not to strong HE and a something useful flashbang. 
 
  
  The round based team play gave players a reason to stay alive, because if they didn't, they would 
 not only let down their team, but also have the wait until the round was over before they joined 
 in.
  
  The game has become timeless, and even today, 5 years later, people are still playing the original 
 (updated of course, but the graphics are still basically the same) , even when a new version based 
 on the source engine has been released.
  
  So how to you rate a game that has changed the face of online gaming forever. Well, you rate it 
 very highly of course. I'll base my scores on games of 2000, because of course graphics and sound 
 wouldn't hold up to modern day graphics, and as I'm currently doing my MSc in Digital Media and 
 Computer Engineering, my graphic review is always critical! 
  
  My opinion, but CS: Source, because it'll just get better, but play this original, because this 
 is well it all started, and you'd be surprised how well it compares to games of today! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Bebop
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 15, 2005 12:16 am PT
Review:  Who here can say they have not played Counter Strike before? This has to be one of the best PC 
 games ever! Best multi player and most played PC multi player. The new ability to use skins just 
 makes it better and makes it a more interesting game to explore. The graphics are as good as it 
 was back when it was first introduced into the mass public. Some may say that it isnt a very deep 
 or graphically supreme game, but its still fun and challenging. People online are hard. And steam 
 makes it hard to hack anymore. SO more games are more secure. All in all its a definite buy if 
 you have a computer, internet, and the love for a fps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Darth_Revan-
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 24, 2005 2:16 am PT
Review:  Counter-Strike is thought to be the game that set the standards for most modern online gameplay. 
 The game itself is fun and addicting. Sometimes I find myself playing it for countless hours, and 
 I never get bored of it. One of the major reasons Counter-Strike is played by millions is that 
 the game is well balanced and it gives you a "real" feel. 
  The gameplay itself is amazing. Even though you may not have a "super computer" the game can run 
 smoothly. With my GeForce 2 (yes, a Geforce 2: P) I was able to run this game very good. While online, 
 I rarely experienced lag, which makes the game even more fun. In the game, you either choose a 
 Terrorist or a Counter-Terrorist side. Once chosen, depending on the map or server, you get to 
 pick the type of gun you want. When you're ready, you just run until you meet an enemy. The makers 
 of Counter-Strike wanted you to get a real feeling, like you were an actual Terrorist or Counter-Terrorist. 
 As a result, many key skills are needed to shoot accurately and succeed in the game. When you spot 
 an enemy, normally you would think to start running at them while firing your weapon like your 
 finger was glued to the trigger. In Counter-Strike, if you do that, you'll find yourself getting 
 killed really easily and your fellow teammates teasing you because you just got "owned." In order 
 to fire accurate shots, a good technique is to duck or crouch. You can't move very fast when getting 
 fired upon, but it is the most accurate, and you'll find yourself killing your opponents more. 
 As many of you may know, jumping in FPS can be very beneficial. In Counter-Strike, just like running 
 and shooting, it doesn't make an accurate shot. Instead, crouch, and try to kill your opponent 
 as best as you can. Also, an important technique is when you can, aim for the head. Normally, headshots 
 are an instant kill. Overall, the gameplay of Counter-Strike is superb.
  The graphics of Counter-Strike are not up to date like the modern games of today. This is because 
 this game was released in the late 90's/2000. This can both have positive and negative results. 
 It can be positive because the "non-hardcore-gamer" can have a chance to play this marvelous game 
 even htough their computer may not be amazing. On the other hand, the graphics are not amazing, 
 but you can hardly tell when you start playing.
  If you're a fan of First-Person Shooters, then I definately reccomend this game. You'll find yourself 
 spending countless hours playing this game and you'll never get tired or bored with it. Right now 
 I've spent over 20 hours playing this game, and I don't plan on stopping. With the huge online 
 community, Counter-Strike may never get old. Besides the numerous hackers or cheaters, the online 
 aspect of this game is marvelous.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireBot
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 21, 2005 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Actually, I might even have to call it my favorite PC game ever. I still actively play it today. 
 
  
  Well, this is an online game as most of you know, one of the best. There are probably thousands 
 of different maps by now that you can play on. They range from bomb defuse maps, to VIP escort 
 maps, I can guarantee that if there is a scenario you want played out relating to terrorism/counter 
 terrorism you can do it in this game. When you first get into a server you chose your team, then 
 which player model you want. Each team (Terrorist and Counter Terrorists) have four models to choose 
 from. After that you either go right into the game, or wait for a new round to start. Round generally 
 have a 3 minute time limit, but other common ones are 5 minutes and 8 minutes (Death Match servers) . 
 When you start you will be put at your 'spawn', which is the starting area for your respected team. 
 There is a buy zone there and a hostage rescue zone (hostage rescue zone only for hostage rescue 
 maps for Counter Terrorists) . Just push B to bring up a menu and start buying away! You will probably 
 only have $800 for your first round, so but what you can and stick with someone that has a decent 
 gun. 
  
  Depending on your team and map you will either need to do the following: plant the bomb (Terrorists 
 on DE  defuse maps) or guard the bomb site/defuse the bomb (Counter Terrorists on DE  defuse 
 maps) . Rescue the hostages (Counter Terrorists on CS  hostage rescue maps) or guard the hostages 
 (Terrorists on CS  hostage rescue maps) . Assassinate the VIP (Terrorists on AS  assassination 
 maps) or protect and rescue the VIP (Counter Terrorists on AS  assassination maps) . A thing to 
 note is the VIP gets 250 armor, but only gets a pistol and a knife, and cannot buy and weapons. 
 These are the more popular map types. There are also: AWP, AIM, ES, and then many miscellaneous 
 maps. 
  
  A little out dated, which isn't bad at all. This means twice as many people can play it because 
 it runs decently even on low end machines. Player models, very realistic and they resemble the 
 real thing very nicely. Gun models, again, very nicely done, a lot of time was put into how the 
 game looks. 
  
  Then there are the levels. These are very cool. There is such a variety of looks that it's almost 
 hard to choose which look when making your own map! The levels are in such variety in look and 
 feel, it's almost amazing. Even the lighting effects help the feel of the map. You can take a map 
 and make it darker, and then the whole feel has changed! Also, this is a skinable game, meaning 
 you can put in your own files to make things look how you want them to. This alone can really up 
 the look and feel of the game. Some models and skins I have seen out there are pretty amazing, 
 and I use some myself. As soon as I got everything skinned and started up the game, it was like 
 I just bought CS over again! 
  
  Well, it's realistic as it is. The guns all have their real sounds, and very good ones at that. 
 You can also get different sounds off the internet if you don't like the ones it already has. They 
 also made good use of dynamic sound, for example if some is behind you, it actually sounds like 
 they are even with out surround sound. Needless to say you will hear people. Whether it is foot 
 steps, a ladder, or a door, you and everyone else will be heard by others! 
  
  Firefights, for some reason, sound awesome. You know, when you watch the movies and there are 5+ 
 people shooting at each other, and all you like about it is the sound? Well, that's what this game 
 sounds like. 
  
  I am adding a new section in for this review, and that's for Steam. As most everyone may know Steam 
 is a content distribution program and makes getting patches and games a breeze. It has all but 
 replaced the WON network, and now players have a STEAM ID, rather then a WON ID. This has sped 
 up the process of getting things fixed in games. Since it is so easy for people to get them since 
 it is all automatic. 
  
  It also has a friends list, which works a lot like AIM. You have a buddy list and you can IM each 
 other back and forth, even while in a game. You can also play parlor games against a friend; like 
 checkers or chess. Now, this friends list is cool, but it is down a lot, but lately that has been 
 changing and it has been up more. 
  
  There's also a nifty server browser that lets you add servers to a list, called your favorites, 
 so you can find them fast! It also lets you filter the servers with such thing as ping, map, and 
 game being played (i. e. Counter Strike, Day of Defeat) , even the number of players! 
  
  Well, Counter Strike is a very customizable game, with many different skins, sounds, sprites, etc. 
 available for download. It also has thousands of servers to choose from all across the globe, with 
 tens of thousands of players on at any given moment. This game is sure to please nearly anyone 
 that picks it up, there will also always be people on to play with, and so you will never be left 
 out in the dark. Not only that, but it comes with Steam, which will make your life so much easier! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fahrenheit1221
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 16, 2005 3:28 am PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of online first person shooters, but I had never played Counter Strike until 
 recently and at school of all places. I immediately fell in love with this fast paced, yet tactical, 
 first person shooter and it's array of features and innovation. I love the interface, HUD, and 
 purchase menus, they flow together nicely, intertwining cool visuals and detailed weapon stats 
 with good gameplay and realism.
  
  Counter Strike is a very basic shooter, however, it's possibilities are endless, with frequent 
 updates and new maps created with the games open source code, users can create maps pretty easy 
 and get good at modding the game rather quickly.
  
  Perhaps the best feature about Counter Strike is it's compatibility, after you buy it, you can 
 easily access it anywhere through Steam and play it anywhere, without installation or setup. Also 
 the game has a good level of control over the settings and runs on most systems.
  
  Great game, a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sup3ry0shi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2005 9:28 am PT
Review:  Here it is, the most popular online game of all time. Even though the graphics and the sounds aren't 
 that great. The gameplay is what makes Counter-Strike a fun, highly addictive game. There are some 
 really challenging players in the games which will test your fast reflexes. Counter-Strike is a 
 fast pace gaming. There is nothing realistic in the game. Once you play Counter-Strike you won't 
 want to quit.
  
  If you play this game, you definetly need a good mouse and you gotta have really fast reaction. 
 The game runs smoothly on mostly any computer. I got a really bad computer and this game still 
 runs smoothly. I like this game and i recommend you to buy it. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dodger26
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 22, 2005 2:51 pm PT
Review:  First of: the weapons.
  An impressive line up of contenporary weapons. From the small Usp Tactical pistol with silencer 
 to the powerfull AK47 with awesome accuracy. This game has all the best weapons that exist.
  
  Second: the graphics.
  Great graphics for that time. The details on the weaponsare very well 
 done (well not compared to CS source but those are from different times) . And the characters are 
 based on real people which makes it more realistic
  
  Final: the gameplay.
  Possibly the best gameplay ever. Extremely easy to move and around and use the various items. You 
 can intereact with the environment and you have the ability to penetrate the darkest areas of the 
 map
  
  The most have game in your Online playing collection!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSJ4Justin
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2005 5:56 am PT
Review:  This game is truely amazing. And has captured the hearts of millions all around the world. Its 
 the most talked about game at my school. And all over the place. For those that havent played it. 
 This is a shooting game with the Counter-Terrorists and Terrorists. They have objectives but everyone 
 is usually out there to kill the other team mostly. There is a wide selection of weapons to choose 
 from. From the AK-47 to the MA41. Its really fun. In order to play with friends you must enter 
 a server. People buy servers so people may play in them. Or they just make one and keep their computer 
 on. These people also have control of game play. Called admins. 
  
  Counter strike also has different mods. Mods such as SuperHero mod. This is a mod in which you 
 pick a hero such as punisher which gives you unlimited bullets with no reload. Or beast which has 
 more hp faster and more ap (armor) Depending on the server there are many levels. For each level 
 you get a hero. You gain levels buy getting xp you get xp buy killing. Pretty fun actually. Another 
 mod is War Craft III mod. This one you choose between a few races like, Human, Orcish Horde, and 
 more. Each Race has specific abilitys. Much like superhero mod. You gain xp and get levels. All 
 of this is on counter strike. If you dont have this game GET IT NOW!!! Its a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: q8hr
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 6, 2005 11:05 pm PT
Review:  When i first bought this game i thought it would just be another one of those cheap boring shooting 
 games, but then when i found out it was online i got reall excited. I played the game right away 
 and found it STUNNING!!!!! i have never played an online game this fun, there are soooooooooo many 
 levles to choose from such a dust1 and dust2, aztec, assult, eygpt, oil and many many more. In 
 this game you get to pick if you want to be a terrorist or a counter terrorist. East team has differenct 
 values. Example the counter terrorist team is good but they have the best weapons such as the m16. 
 the terrorist team has a huge advange but also a low one. They have the weapon AK47. That gun shoots 
 harder but has bad aiming if you are new to this game. The main objective is usally to kill all 
 the other players that are not on your team.. but in every level there is an extra objective that 
 will give u extra money... in dust2 you have to plant a bomb in any of the 2 bomb sites u have... in 
 assult you have to resque hotages and bring them to your base. All in all this game in a very good 
 game and i reccomend for all who like shooting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dude102
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 6, 2004 11:55 pm PT
Review:  For this game you either love it or hate it and if your a noob you usually hate it. for the guy 
 who said sound doest matter, sound is 80% of the game and you would know that if you played in 
 leagues. For the guy who said that hackers ruin the fun there really isnt that many hackers because 
 i get called hacker alot and ive never hacked in any game ever. Also the people that do hack usually 
 suck anyways to where they are still easy to kill if your good.
  
  Sooo if your good and u played in leagues its a 10 and if your not good at shooters then you proboly 
 wont like this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gipper07
Rating: 9.9
Date: Sep 17, 2004 6:17 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Counter-Strike, I owned a computer running an AMD K6 processor and a GeForce 
 2 graphics card. That was four years ago. Six computers, one Steam account, 65,293 kills, and over 
 100,000 rounds later, I am still playing Counter-Strike on a daily basis.
  
  Some people might ask, "Why is Counter-Strike so good?", or "Why do you play that game so much?". 
 The answer is actually quite simple, because Counter-Strike is the best multiplayer game of all 
 time. Period.
  
  There are so many things that make this game good, it would take me forever to list all of them.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  The gameplay in Counter-Strike is the best there is, the best there was, and the best there ever 
 will be. Everything about the gameplay is perfect. The weapons load and shoot very nicely, the 
 movement is extremely fluid and never skips a beat, and everything about how the game plays just 
 feels right when you play. This is obviously the reason that people have lost jobs, girlfriends, 
 wives, and many other things to Counter-Strike, because the gameplay is that damn good.
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Keep in mind, Counter-Strike is running off an engine that is six years old, so there 
 isn't too much here. This doesn't bother me, or any other Counter-Strike player for that matter, 
 one bit. The graphics are as good as they have to be to get the job done, and they do it perfectly. 
 There isn't anything that you're going to say, "Wow, that looks awesome" to, save that for Counter-Strike: 
 Source. This is a good thing that the graphics aren't that good, because you could throw together 
 a computer for under $200.00 and have a machine that will play Counter-Strike perfectly.
  
  SOUND:
  Nothing too spectacular here either. There are gunshots, grenades blowing up, flashbangs 
 going off, maybe some water running, and people talking. The sounds aren't that great, but just 
 like the graphics, they are as good as they have to be to get the job done. There is only one gripe 
 I have with the sound, and that is that there is only one sound for footsteps (which has been recently 
 fixed with auto-updates) so there isn't anything that bad.
  
  VALUE:
  Let me give you some stats here: (from www. steampowered. com)
  Average CS players per month: 1,646,478
 
  Average hours of CS played per month: 3,817,000,000
  That is not a typo. In the month of August, players played Counter-Strike for 3 BILLION hours! 
 This is a game that has been out for over four years, so lets do some more math:
  4 years x 12 months a year = 48 months
  48 months x 3,817,000,000 = 183,216,000,000
  That is 
 183 BILLION hours of Counter-Strike played (average) since it's release.
  If everyone who played Counter-Strike had a job and worked instead of playing Counter-Strike and 
 made $15.00 an hour, that would have put $2,748,240,000,000 into the pockets of Counter-Strike 
 players. Value? Look at the numbers. Two trillion dollars, or Counter-Strike...
  
  REVIEWER'S TILT:
  Come on...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colt45fool
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 29, 2004 9:20 pm PT
Review:  Goldeneye007, Perfect Dark, Halo, Super Smash Bros. Melee, Socom, Battlefield 1942, Unreal Tournament 
 2004 - these are all games you think of when you think about great multiplayer games. For those 
 of you who have never played Counter-Strike, you really are missing alot. In my honest oppinion, 
 it is one of the greatest multiplayer games. Not just on the PC - but in general.
  
  Counter-Strike consists of two teams. One team is the Terrorists forces, and the other is the Counter-Terrorists 
 force. They all have there certain objectives, and there main objective is to stop the other force. 
 The main objectives consist of hostage situations, planting a bomb situations, and VIP situations. 
 You can also go the old fashion route and kill all of the players on the opposing team. While none 
 of these are new to video games in general, the way they are executed in the game is excellent.
 
  
  Counter-Strike consists of excellent gameplay - most of which can be found in the game it came 
 from, Half-Life. The game's best attribute is it's sound, which is second to none. It has very 
 realistic sounds from the guns, and the voice acting (found when you are calling out voice commands 
 during the game) sounds very realistic. As if you just heard someone over a walkie-talkie. You 
 can also (if you have your own microphone) talk into the computer to give voice commands. 
  
  Counter-Strike, although has basic FPS features to todays standards is still an excellent game 
 in my oppinion, and one of the best games I personally have ever played. I reccomend anyone who 
 hasn't played it yet t pick it up as soon as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leon-Winters
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 13, 2004 12:08 am PT
Review:  Counter-Strike is, without a doubt, the worlds most successful First Person Shooter ever made. 
 It's no wonder why.
  
  Created by Minh Le, Counter-Strike is a multi-player only MOD for the mega-popular 1998 PC FPS, 
 Half-Life. Pitting Terrorists, who resort to a more rudamentary tactical apprach, against Counter-Terrorist 
 , who use tactical equipmant and elaborate plans of assault, this game uses realistic current-day 
 weapons and technology, and becuase of this realism, Counter-Strike impliments a heavy sense of 
 strategy, in an "Every Man Counts" sort of way.
  In this game, hiding, sniping, and constant movement in a firefight are necessary to your survival. 
 Despite all this, however, the actual mechanics are quite simple. You earn money by winning rounds, 
 killing enemy units, rescuing hostages, etc. and use it to buy weapons, ammunition, and equipment 
 at the beginning of each round. Then you and your squad of other PCs move out in an effort to either 
 slaughter all other enemies (Which do not respawn until the next round) Or complete your objective, 
 such as setting up a bomb in the Terrorist's case. The weapons you can buy range from the AK-47 
 to the M4, from High-powered grenade and flash bangs to your standard pistol. However, having the 
 bigger, more expensive gun never assures sure victory, as the game's set-up always boils down to 
 player skills (Although I am sure many players would disagree with me, especially in the case of 
 the AWP, a 1-hit kill sniper rifle.) The more professionally made levels, such as DE_DUST and Assault, 
 keep this in mind, by inserting vent ducts, back doors, roof-top sniping positions, and the almost 
 clich crate defense system. If you are facing even mediocre players, you will soon learn that 
 using the same pattern of attack/defense will not always work. Your enemies will find a pattern 
 in your attack and scramble to counter it. 
  
  Sound also lends a helping hand to creating a rock solid defense/offense. The near off sounds of 
 high powered sniper rifles, to the ping and pang of machine gun fire, all this can be used to help 
 scope out enemy locations. Although the game does not include any music of any kind, each level 
 has an ambiance track that fits well with the atmosphere. The exclusion of music also helps add 
 to the realistic tension, especially when you find your entire squad has died and youre the only 
 remaning player. 
  
  Over all, Counter-Strike is an awesome multiplayer FPS, and excels at every possible angle. From 
 a roster of nearly 30 real-life weapons to the intensity of heated shoot-outs and one-man stands, 
 you actually feel like youre in the game. If you even remotely enjoy first person shooter, be 
 sure to pick this game up. You will spend many a sleepless nite in front of your glowing screen 
 in your dark room, just thinking, "It's 11 o'clock, just one more game, then it's off to bed." 
 And before you know it, it's sunrise.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swamination
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 10, 2004 8:51 pm PT
Review:  I tis difficult to rate a game built upon a game, yet I must consider it on its own merit here. 
 Since the game is old, I will sum up shortly:
  
  The graphics engine is dated. For its time, it set a precedent for world creation and mod versatility 
 that still stands up in the modding community. A few glitches in the models and skyboxes can be 
 irritating, but overall, it plays smoothly and recognizes hitboxes well enough to play with location-based 
 damage for semi-realism.
  
  The competitve and round-based gameplay is addictive. Solid movement controls, the consistent nature 
 of the weapons, and the individual objectives make a great combination that has only been topped 
 in more recent years. The rejuvination of CS in the new Source engine may reclaim the throne (or 
 at least a fan base) , proving the content's worth.
  
  The weapon sounds and music are fun, although I tend to play with no music or personal music. Certain 
 weapons and sounds make you almost FEEL the kickback and recoil of each shot.
  
  This is a fantastic LAN game and will take time to die out completely. Funny enough, I think it 
 will be CS on the new Source engine that will finally kill the original CS.
  
  Good game. *pats it on the behind*
  
  Swamination 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pointblank
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 6, 2004 8:02 pm PT
Review:  The definite shooter that started it all. Not only is the single player campaign incredible, but 
 the multiplayer is hot. Just look at the mod community. Thousands of people still play Counter-Strike, 
 Team Fortress Classic, Day of Defeat, and many other HL mods to this day. 
  
  I'm a personal team fortress classic buff and have been playing it for 5 years. I still play it 
 to this day and it has a very active clan community and leagues. If you think that's something, 
 it isn't nearly as popular as counter-strike. 
  
  As for the single player, the scripted events and incredible AI (for its time) make the single 
 player a must have. Even if you are a graphics whore, you cannot help to appreciate this game for 
 what it is. Keep in mind that the engine is 5 years old, but you should definitely play this game. 
 
  
  So what are you waiting for? Go pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsana
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 29, 2003 5:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is good and it has alot of maps that are fun to play. lots of guns to use. when people 
 work as a team it is awesome to play and watch. you fight along side your comrades as you wipe 
 out the other side watching your team mates die beside you and then when your the last one on your 
 team your screwed unless you good or lucky. the grapics are old i know but still good enough. the 
 sound is ok still good. ok ill admit this game does get boring but only if you play it 24/7/365 
 then youll be bored out of your mind but if you space it out itll be good for a long bit. i recommend 
 this to gun freaks and trigger happy prople and people who like the half life game.
  
  p. s cant wait for half-life 2 mods theyll be awesome with the source engine :) drole... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Visi0naries
Rating: 7.9
Date: Oct 12, 2003 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Counter-Strike is one of the most popular online action games to this day. As a Half-Life Mod, 
 it is more popular than the game that actually made it. That's how CS proved itself to be such 
 a strong competitor in the online world today. Being such a popular mod and giving people who play 
 it the fun they deserve, there's no reason why it can't be popular. But with many people using 
 cheats and hacks to defeat the opposing force online, it definitely ruins the whole game for many 
 people, and shows that online games are definitely never safe.
  
  CS takes alot of skill to get used to. When you begin, you will be playing like a beginner if your 
 online, and many people will start calling you a "n00b" or a "llama" because of your low skills 
 and no strategy. It's basically how it goes in the CS world. You can't tell if a person is extremely 
 good or he is just simply hacking and cheating his way to victory. That's something you need to 
 know about, and just like that, someone hacking in the server your playing in easily ruins the 
 game for you, no longer not being fun, but being plain out stupid to play when you know you'll 
 get cheated out by dying many times in CS.
  
  Alright, enough of the hackers and cheats in the CS world. Let's get into the review. First off, 
 the graphics are outdated since it's a really old mod. Sure, with the release of Steam and the 
 updated graphics in it, it still can't hold up to the outdated graphics that plagued it back then. 
 It is 2003, not 1997. Even with that, CS proves that it can be fun even with it's not so good graphics.
 
  
  The gameplay really hurts CS just as the graphics hurt it alot. The game is surrounded with hackers 
 using cheats to cheat their way to victory, spoiling the fun for many people. Everything about 
 hackers is explained above, but the only way to get the most fun out of CS is to find a server 
 without no hackers or cheaters in it.
  
  The Sound for CS is great, period. The sound of the guns rattling and the sound clipping animations 
 show why CS has won lots of "Best Sound Award" for the year 2001. Half-Life had some of the best 
 sound as well, and as a mod, Counter-Strike is no different.
  
  To put this review into a short summary, CS is full of hacks that ruin the fun for lots of people. 
 Because of that, ir ruins the experience that CS definitely shows. If you have the Half-Life game, 
 you can simply download CS and install it yourself, but buying the CS Retail might not be good 
 enough. Wasting your money when you know that the game is plagued with many cheats (of course, 
 its the most popular online mod and action game) is not worth the buy. If you wish to take your 
 sacrfices and buy the retail version, then there's no problem, but be warned that you will at least 
 run into 3 hackers or cheaters in about one sitting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hunk4thSurvivor
Rating: 9.4
Date: Sep 14, 2003 6:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is ABSOLUTELY great. I mean i got this game in 2000 right when it came out and i STILL 
 PLAY IT TODAY! THIS IS THE ONLY REAL game i play everyday for 3 years straight!!! I have never played 
 a game everyday for 3 years straight. This game is STILL the most popular played game online today! 
 This game deserves a high rating. the only reason why i am giving it a 7 in graphics is because 
 its a lil dated. but if i rated it at the time it was released i would have given it a 9. so this 
 game in all respects is AWESOME. buy/download it. you can go to websites and get it for free but 
 you have to download the patches. try www. counterstrikecentral. com its good website with stuff. 
 
  
  Once more, this game is very very good and deserves a 9.4/10 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
