-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Half-Life: Blue Shift
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/pc/action/halflifeblueshift/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::

-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  8, 2001
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.8, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 2,457 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Gearbox Software
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date:     Jun 11, 2001
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The bad news is that Blue Shift, the actual game, doesn't amount to much on its own terms. The good 
 news is that the revamped graphics and inclusion of Opposing Force make the retail package a lot 
 more worthwhile. 

 Half-Life: Blue Shift is the second official retail expansion to Valve Software's groundbreaking 
 1998 first-person shooter. It's worth noting that Half-Life's publisher, Sierra Studios, has used 
 the Half-Life brand name on many other products, including refurbished "Platinum" and "Game of 
 the Year" editions of the original game, and has also helped promote (and sell) fan-made Half-Life 
 mods, including last year's Gunman Chronicles and the extremely popular multiplayer mod Counter-Strike. 
 Blue Shift was developed by Gearbox Software, the same team that brought you the excellent 1999 
 Half-Life expansion, Opposing Force, in which you play as one of the commandos sent in to ventilate 
 Gordon Freeman, the protagonist of the original game. Blue Shift itself was originally developed 
 as supplemental content for Half-Life for the Sega Dreamcast, but unfortunately, that console was 
 discontinued earlier this year. Thus, plans for the release of Half-Life for the Dreamcast changed, 
 which is why Blue Shift has now been made available for the PC. In North America, Blue Shift also 
 comes bundled with Opposing Force -- and you don't need the original Half-Life to play either of 
 these. For good measure, Blue Shift also includes the Half-Life High Definition pack, which refurbishes 
 some of the graphics throughout Half-Life and makes the entire game look a little newer. The bad 
 news is that Blue Shift, the actual game, doesn't amount to much on its own terms. The good news 
 is that the revamped graphics and the inclusion of Opposing Force make the retail package a lot 
 more worthwhile.           The high definition pack noticeably enhances some of Half-Life's graphics. 
    

 It takes much more effort to put Half-Life: Blue Shift into proper context with all the preceding 
 Half-Life products than it does to actually finish the game. It's not that the game is easy so 
 much that it's extremely short -- it'll take you between four and 10 hours to see everything in Blue 
 Shift. You are put in the role of one of Half-Life's stalwart, levelheaded security personnel, 
 whom you'd run into from time to time in the original game, as well as in Opposing Force. Barney 
 Calhoun, your character in Blue Shift, supposedly doesn't have the same academic background as 
 Gordon Freeman, nor does he have the military training of Corporal Adrian Shephard, the protagonist 
 of Opposing Force. In the context of the game, none of this really comes across -- Barney runs extremely 
 quickly (just like Gordon and Adrian) and can suffer an inordinate amount of damage (just like 
 Gordon and Adrian) . This makes sense in Half-Life, where you are protected by a state-of-the-art 
 environment suit, as well as in Opposing Force, where you are a highly trained soldier. In Blue 
 Shift, it's a stretch, and the only time you get the sense that you're actually supposed to be 
 a down-to-earth security guard is in an early sequence in which you have to get your sidearm and 
 pick up your security vest and helmet. Like in Half-Life and Opposing Force, your character never 
 actually says a word during the course of Blue Shift. In Half-Life, this helps immerse you into 
 the game. In Blue Shift, it's too bad, since the main appeal of Half-Life's security guards comes 
 from their numerous, wry one-liners and other banter.  

 Like Opposing Force, Blue Shift takes place during the same time frame as Half-Life. You start out 
 heading in to work just as you would any other day, but things quickly go awry in the Black Mesa 
 Research Facility. It's suddenly under siege, and as a member of its security force, you're tasked 
 with defending the facility's scientists from aliens and also from government soldiers, who have 
 come to do you in. In practice, you'll traverse the same sorts of dangerous levels that are found 
 in the original game and Opposing Force. During the course of Blue Shift, you might catch a couple 
 of clever references to both Opposing Force and the original game. These, along with a few other 
 in-jokes, make for the most enjoyable parts of Blue Shift. The rest of it consists of a few fairly 
 straightforward firefights, an obligatory jaunt to Xen (Half-Life's perennial parallel universe) , 
 and several jumping puzzles that manage to be just clever enough instead of annoying. There are 
 no new challenges to be found, it's all over very quickly, and there isn't much point in revisiting 
 the levels.          Blue Shift's weapons may look different, but the difference is only skin-deep. 
    

 However, you may find that once you've installed the High Definition pack, Blue Shift gives good 
 reason to revisit the original Half-Life (as well as Opposing Force) . This graphical enhancement 
 increases the size of most of the texture maps found in the game and its expansion and also improves 
 some of the 3D character models -- you'll quickly notice that the scientists, security guards, and 
 government soldiers all look more lifelike. The High Definition pack also changes all the weapon 
 models from Half-Life. The most jarring of these changes is that Half-Life's terrific submachine 
 gun has now been replaced by a full-on assault rifle that's functionally identical but looks a 
 lot heftier and sounds even louder when it fires. Half-Life is almost three years old, so all of 
 these graphical enhancements are helpful, though they still don't make Half-Life look like a new 
 game -- nor are many of the changes themselves very noticeable. Furthermore, these enhancements are 
 entirely superficial -- Half-Life will still play the same as before.  

 If you buy just one Half-Life-branded game besides Half-Life itself, then that game should be Blue 
 Shift. You can always get Counter-Strike as a free download, and Opposing Force comes packaged 
 with Blue Shift anyway. Don't be misled by the fact that Blue Shift doesn't require Half-Life: 
 If for some terrible reason you don't actually have the original, then owning it should be your 
 first priority. Besides, Blue Shift is actually best suited for those who own and enjoy the original 
 Half-Life. These players will quickly find that Half-Life remains extremely enjoyable today and 
 that the enhanced graphical touches in Blue Shift's High Definition pack make it fun to revisit 
 some of the original game's incredible scenes for the umpteenth time. Otherwise, Blue Shift is 
 a great value if you've never tried Opposing Force -- an expansion pack that originally retailed 
 for $10 more than Blue Shift's $30 retail price. However, if you've finished Opposing Force and 
 already spent plenty of time with the original game, you'll find that Blue Shift doesn't have a 
 lot to offer. It's much too short, and it has no multiplayer features -- therefore, it won't satisfy 
 your craving for more of the intense action that made Half-Life so remarkable. You can get a $10 
 rebate for Blue Shift if you've already bought Opposing Force, but that still doesn't make the 
 underachieving Blue Shift worthwhile on its own.    
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (46 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wreckem406
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 10, 2009 3:55 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life's second official expansion pack, Blue Shift follows the story of one of Black Mesa Research 
 Facility's security guards, Barney Calhoun. Barney follows in the style of the earlier protagonist's 
 staying completely silent throughout the game; however it still feels more difficult to really 
 get into this game's story than other games.
  
  It may be the apparent lack of connection to the original's story but, Blue Shift feels out of 
 place and almost as if it doesn't serve much of a purpose other than to milk a little more out 
 of the original before the sequel comes out.
  
  That said the gameplay does fit in nicely with the previous Half-Life games. Barney, despite being 
 only an ordinary security guard handles the same way Freeman and Shepard do. This does create an 
 ease into the game as the player isn't learning a new set of controls or style of play.
  
  The biggest issue with Blue Shift is its length. You can play through the game on easy in less 
 than four hours, and on hard in 8-10 hours at best.
  
  Blue Shift despite a few flaws does fit nicely into any gamer's Half-Life collection, including 
 a few clever nods to the original. However do yourself a favor and make sure you've played any 
 other Half-Life game before this one so this isn't your first taste of an outstanding series.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azghouls
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 18, 2009 10:01 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 7
  Graphics: 8 (basing on the hi-def package)
  Sounds: 6
  Value: 5 (only because of the short single player campaign and no value added for bundling Opposing 
 Force otherwise an 8) 
  Tilt: 5
  
  Firstly, I want to get something of my chest. Blue Shift got to be one of the shortest games I 
 have ever played, period! Seriously, I can make a short game long as I'm the type of person that 
 needs to explore everything; that is from top to bottom, left to right and up and down. I need 
 to blow everything up, mutilate every moving being and investigate every blade of grass before 
 I can deem the game complete. Well considering Blue Shift has the same intensity as the previous 
 two Half Life games and being linear (which limits my exploration) before I knew it, the game was 
 over.
  
  Blue Shift takes on the parallel universe from the previous two Half Life games (Half Life and 
 Opposing Force) . That said you play the unsuspected hero Barney Calhoun which happens to be a level 
 three security guard (the highest security access level) . The game takes off in that traditional 
 Half Life format where there are no cut-scenes yet you play the introduction. This time though 
 you can feel the tension as you darn well know that all hell will break loose as there are snippets 
 of events occurred in Half Life that presents itself in Blue Shift (e. g. seeing Gordon Freeman 
 riding the tram) . I seriously didn't want to trigger the holocaust however when told that I need 
 to fix an elevator that got stuck I had this ill feeling of 'here we go again' (in a good way) .
 
  
  The game promotes a stand alone package where the original Half Life is not required so newcomers 
 to this universe can play this game. But there is a dark side to this as Blue Shift, even though 
 the game play is identical to the previous two (that is linear infused with intense fire fights) 
 it really feels like a watered down version of Half Life. This means there are absolutely no experimental 
 weapons, limited critters and considering you have the highest security level access, not much 
 'underground' knowledge of the Black Mesa compound.
  
  It would be murderous to the Half Life trilogy if the same graphical engine is used from the original 
 Half Life back in 1998. Thankfully Blue Shift comes with 'hi-definition' software that enhances 
 the visuals tenfold. Not only you can use this on Blue Shift but on the previous two Half Life 
 games as well. Therefore it's worth the effort to play those games again in hi-def as it really 
 shines with new facial features to all NPCs, detailed weaponry and creatures, stunning textures 
 and superb water/lighting effects.
  
  Valve also bundled Opposing Force with Blue Shift but this may hurt the older fans but the newer 
 ones will be delighted as again Half Life is not required to be installed (as Blue Shift is the 
 required game to be installed) . So in replacement to an awfully short single player campaign, the 
 hi-def software bundled with Opposing Force makes up for this.
  
  Considering Blue Shift tells the story of the security guard using the same events of Half Life 
 and Opposing Force, you cannot help but feeling nostalgic as there are some references made that 
 will place a smile in your face. Yet the package sold is tailored to the newer fans of Half Life 
 as Blue Shift is regarded as a standalone game to Half Life and considering it's bundled with Opposing 
 Force these newer fans will get a taste of what Half Life is all about. Ironically though, Blue 
 Shift isn't a true representation of the Half Life universe but only an add-on as Opposing Force 
 can be regarded as a more superior product.
  
  So you can say that if you are a newcomer to the series, Opposing Force should be your first choice 
 (with the high-def added into it) yet if you are a seasoned player, Blue Shift is good for nostalgic 
 value and nothing more. Damned if you do and damned if you don't. It's your choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EyeWierd20
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  Gearbox felt it was right (and money making!) to create another expansion pack (the first being 
 Opposing Force) to Half-Life, the game that inspired so many others. It has been brought back to 
 life several years after the original was released, and this time we are in control of the one 
 and only security guard named Barney "Colhoun" (pronounced, kOwl-hoon) .
  
  Half-Life: Blue Shift brings new graphics to an old game, but not by much according to today's 
 standards. Considering we are living in 2008+, you must have either registered this game with Steam 
 from an old retail box back when the game was officially released or bought it directly over the 
 Internet from steam and downloaded it. Either way, the ONLY way you could have 'activated' the 
 High-quality models that were bundled with Half-Life: Blue shift is if you were to download a user 
 created high-quality models from a website like Planet Half-Life or FilePlanet (even though a very 
  version was available on Stem for a while) , and activate 
 those instead. At it's time of release, the game gave you the choice of upgrading the models of 
 Half-Life or keep them all the same they were. But that is very hard to get now these days with 
 Steam (since the Steam version seems to disable it somehow) .
  
  Aside from the fact you cannot upgrade the current models of Half-Life, the game adds some new 
 noticeable and tickling content: A new 'hand' model for Barney, a new scientist model (with a new 
 voice acting job) that plays a huge role in the game, and never before seen areas of the Black 
 Mesa 'research' facility.
  
  There is another new voice actor for the person who does the other Security Guard's voices, but 
 he is arguably (and in my opinion) not as good as the original. Even though he only plays scripts 
 in the beginning of the game, he is noticeably different from the previous voice actor that played 
 in the first Half-life release.
  
  Since I do not want to spoil any of the story, I shall just say this:
  The story begins with 
 you, Barney, about to go on shift as an officer at the Black Mesa research facility. You get all 
 ready and go down to fix some sort of elevator problem when suddenly a huge accident occurs, just 
 like in the first Half-Life.
  
  The game focuses on getting out of the facility alive, unlike Gordon Freeman who is constantly 
 being thrown into new objectives such as launching rockets, getting from one side of the facility 
 to the other, and ultimately stopping the aliens from teleporting out of Xen.
  
  The game brings in brand new areas and awesome gameplay, just as Half-Life did. However, there 
 are two problems with this addon pack: No new weapons, and very short with little back story to 
 Half-Life (even though you do actually see Gordon Freeman as he passes by on a rail cart) .
  
  It has all the same gameplay elements as Half-Life that made is so famous. There are no cutscenes, 
 and no part where you character actually talks. After all, that is how first person shooters were 
 meant to be. Weapons and health are found as often as each other, which is usually inside crates 
 or closets (and they are located in storage areas such as the lower levels and sewers) . There is 
 good weapon balance, such as the weapons from Half-Life were. As in the first scientist could aid 
 you with health kits, however friendly security guards are very few to none at all. As again, this 
 time you are fighting aliens and US military forces, just as Gordon Freeman did.
  
  Another disappointment was the lack of multiplayer mode, which was even included in Half-Life: 
 Opposing Force. But even then, I can think of little bonus content that would have made it so unique 
 from Half-Life and Half-Life: Opposing Force.
  
  But the very big thing that bugs me is that it is very short. It can be beaten within 10 hours 
 or so if you understand enough about Half-Life elements. I did not mind much and I still found 
 the game a good buy in order to completely form the Half-Life series.
  
  It still is very fun and you will most likely play it through more than once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marco1402
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 7, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  Because of mediocre reviewers appreciation I didn't play this sequel of the half-life series until 
 recently. And I must say I found it more fun than I expected it to be. 
  You have to have played the original half-lfe game to enjoy it fully I think because that is where 
 this game takes its value from. 
  
  A lot of jokes en hints refer to the original game, and for a non veteran of half-life these just 
 fall dead on you. 
  
  It doesn't have the quality of the original game; but still if your a fan of the series it's good 
 enough to have you enjoy the deja-vu and the occational aha-erlebnis.
  
  Not much to say about further other than: play it when you feel like a nostalgic return to the 
 story of the half-life classic. But it's short one and in many respects a bit out-dated so check 
 your bargain bin ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titanic100
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 15, 2008 12:59 am PT
Review:  Half life blue shift
  
  The game play 
  
  In this new half life you take the roll of a security guard called Barney Calhoun but your character 
 lacks military training but he is trained to use a gun, when you start the game you have to go 
 through security checks and then you have to get in your uniform and get body armour and you gun 
 then you start your shift. 
  
  The graphics 
  
  The graphics are better than the previous half life games the backgrounds and the building and 
 weapons are in more good detail but they could be improved even on the highest setting some of 
 the graphics are not very good.
  
  The sound 
  
  The sound is a better than the previous half life games the background sounds and the weapons are 
 in more good detail but they could be improved even on the highest setting some of the sounds are 
 not very good.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mircea_calarasu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 4, 2008 5:26 am PT
Review:  Intro: After playing Half-Life and Opposing Force, you might be wondering whether this is worth 
 your while. It follows the same storyline as the other two, but seen from the perspective of a 
 security guard. Sounding interesting? Then read on!
  
  Gameplay 10/10:
  Usual awesome half-life gameplay, they haven't messed with anything here, just left it all the 
 same except for a few new weapons. However you can pick from three difficulty levels (easy, medium, 
 hard) in this one as well. For those of you who have played Hal-Life you don't really need to know 
 anything more about gameplay. If your new to it, then keep readin this section.
  Blue Shift is a First-Person Shooter. Following the normal FPS style the game gives you access 
 to lots of guns for you to have fun with and fore different situations. In this game you have everything 
 from a Pistol to a Machine Gun or from a crowbar to an Alien Disperser weapon, as well as everything 
 in between. The aim of the game is to progress through the areas and make your way to the end of 
 the game. Its not like an adventure when you cacn freely explore an area and come back later; after 
 you leave an area here, you cannot go back. However, there is no need to as there is only one main 
 quest of the game. You'll have to use your smarts and reflexes to get through each area because 
 as you progress throught the Black Mesa facility you will be faced with many different challenges 
 such as killing Black Ops people, taking down aliens or just cross biochemical waste.
  
  Graphics 9/10:
  For the time the graphics are very good, but of course, they're nowhere near 
 good enough to meet todays standards. Focusing on for the time though: they are exceptional graphics, 
 all the guns are true to form and all the aliens are menacing in their apperance. The scenery is 
 maybe a little plain, but does it job of setting the scene very well!
  
  Sound 7/10:
  What sound? There is no background music to this game, only sound effects. I would normally give 
 a game like that 6/10 for sound, but as it is a FPS it doesn't need it so much, also in some areas 
 it would ruin the atmoshpere. The sound effects, though, are very good. All the gun shots, explosions 
 etc are very realistic and if aliens like this really existed i'm sure they would maon like they 
 do in the game too!
  
  Story 5/10:
  Well, it basically deserves a 1/10, but its story serves it purpose. Classic storyline, aliens 
 invade the earth and its up to you to stop them! In Blue Shift, you need to try to find out what 
 is going on and, as a security guard, try to help the people inside (even though very little of 
 this actually happens) . So if your looking for a game with a deep, interesting, enthralling storyline, 
 then maybe you should look elsewhere.
  
  Challenge 9/10:
  Blue Shift presents an excellent challenge especially seen you have three difficulty levels to 
 pick from. Some areas of the game, especially those against other humans, can be incredibly tough, 
 as well as some alien bosses. However, being able to save anytime you want can make this a little 
 easier unless you save just as you die! Then your stuck!
  
  Replay Value 6/10:
  RP is basically non-existant unless you just want to play through it again as you enjoyed it a 
 lot. The only thing to redo is to beat the game on a harder difficulty level, but otherwise, thats 
 it.
  
  Conclusion 8.6/10
  Blue Shift is a great half-life mod to play, especially if you need something to do. It has everything 
 you could want for a FPS, except maybe for replayability, make sure you play it though, its worth 
 a least a once playthrough, probably more if you don't own Half-Life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbrading
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  If the idea was just put onto a piece of paper, Blue Shift looks like it shouldn't fail in the 
 slightest. To add another expansion to the original Half-Life; one which would play along the same 
 timeline, but from a different perspective from that of Dr. Gordon Freeman and Corporal Adrian 
 Shephard. Whilst Opposing Force did this with notable success, Blue Shift is not so lucky. The 
 game has a solid storyline, but is a miserably short experience, featuring nothing new, and overall 
 feels extremely rushed.
  
  Within Blue Shift, you take up the role of Barney Calhoun, an ordinary mid-level security officer 
 at the Black Mesa Research Facility, who just so happens to be friends with one Gordon Freeman. 
 In the original Half-Life, all of the security guards scattered throughout the facility were technically 
 known as "Barney", though the genuine Barney Calhoun is seen right at the beginning of that game, 
 hammering his fist against a door. This is one of the first actions the player does in Blue Shift, 
 thus also managing to catch a glimpse of Freeman passing on the Transit tram. During the rest of 
 the game, the player once again witnesses the effects resonance cascade disaster created by Freeman 
 during the original game, and must attempt to escape the facility alive, enlisting the help of 
 various scientists, notably the new character of Dr. Rosenberg. The story itself is perfectly adequately 
 executed, and remains solidly logical, but on its own it is nowhere near enough to support the 
 game's various flaws.
  
  To start with, Blue Shift is almost inordinately short. Depending upon what difficultly to select, 
 it will probably only take a maximum of 4-5 hours to complete the game, and once you've done so, 
 there isn't really anything that would want to make you play through it again. All of the environments 
 and levels are blandly similar in their appearance and design, and are lacking in any of the larger 
 set pieces which were interspersed into Half-Life. All of the enemies you meet are once again all 
 recycled from the original game, such as Vortiguants and the HECU Commandos, and do not encorporate 
 any of the new, "Race X" aliens which made Opposing Force worthwhile. There is also a complete 
 lack of any Zombies, which given the great number of Headcrabs thrown at you during the short campaign, 
 remains somewhat of a mystery. Dealing with all of these is simply a matter of shooting, and because 
 of the semi-auto aim, this is no problem whatsoever.
  
  All weapons are likewise reused again, and further some of the original weapons (such as the rocket 
 launcher and crossbow) are omitted, meaning there is actually a smaller collection of weaponry 
 to choose from. One of the only things which helps to make Blue Shift somewhat worthwhile is the 
 inclusion of the High Definition Pack. This updates all of the character models with a greater 
 polygon count, and also changes their look significantly, most notably on the HECU soldiers, so 
 it is debatable which looks better. All of the weapon models have also been altered, such as changing 
 the MP5 submachine gun to a M4 Carbine rifle. However, as none of this alters gameplay in anyway, 
 the changes are entirely superficial.
  
  Further, as in other Half-Life games, Barney never speaks during the action. Whilst in the original 
 and Opposing Force expansion this fact didn't matter, or was inherently useful to the actual progression 
 of the game, here it doesn't make any sense. For example, there is a conversation with Dr. Rosenberg 
 where he asks if you were sent by his (unfortunately late) colleague, Harold. Since you cannot 
 speak, Rosenberg should not be able to find out if you actually were. Yet his next like of dialogue 
 is "I thought so", as though you had responded. How on Earth was Rosenberg able to deduce that? 
 Sound suffers some general problems as well. Ambient noises seem either too loud, or as if they 
 are being spoken through a scarf, making everything seem slightly muffled.
  
  There are also some irritating graphical hitches here and there for the Steam version of the game, 
 which is now the most likely version you are going to play. In the original game, the HUD was blue, 
 yet here it is orange. When Freeman is seen travelling past in the tram, his character jumps about 
 and occasionally flickers. Similar things happen when Calhoun is inside an elevator with two scientists. 
 Considering this game has now been out for seven years, you would have expected simple problems 
 like this to have been sorted, and although Gearbox Software released an update eliminating these 
 problems for the original version, it has not been instigated within Steam.
  
  In conclusion, Blue Shift on its own is not worth more than a couple of playthroughs at the very 
 most, due to its short and uninventive gameplay. It does seem that Gearbox Software didn't give 
 it anywhere near as much love or care creating it as they did for Opposing Force. Even now on Steam, 
 $9.95 seems rather steep for the game on its own (considering it was $20 upon initial release with 
 Opposing Force included) . However, when purchased in conjunction with the original Half-Life or 
 Opposing Force expansion, it exists as an interesting, but noticeably weaker development of the 
 Half-Life story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmarKane3450
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Blue Shift was supposed to be an addon for the Dreamcast version of Half-Life ( which is now six 
 feet under, if you know what I mean) but due to constant nagging by fans, Valve (or Gearbox?) decided 
 to release Blue Shift (according to an interview I read) and this is what the fans got. Hey, you 
 guys asked for it. So they gave it to you.
  
  Blue Shift is actually a pretty good game. But it's way too short. That's why I think that if it 
 had been released as a mod for Half-Life, a more favorable view of it would have been attained. 
 The length of the game might have even been looked over because no money would have been required 
 to play it. The game could actually be finished in a few hours. When I first bought the game, I 
 played for awhile in the evening and then fired her up the next morning and beat it in just one 
 hour or so. NOT GOOD. It took me a long time to beat the original Half-Life. Blue Shift felt like 
 a short mod.
  
  Plus, there's really nothing new to be found in Blue Shift. Storywise, you really learn nothing 
 new about the Black Mesa universe. There are are no new weapons, no new enemies, but a few new 
 allies. There's not even any opposing force stuff in Blue Shift. You see the fat security guards 
 here and there, but that's it. It didn't even feel like you were playing as a security guard. The 
 only difference between you and Gordon and Shepherd is that you use a helmet and vest as protection. 
 
  
  Blue Shift came with Opposing Force. That's a pretty good deal, if you never played Opposing Force. 
 It also comes with the High Definition pack which improves character models and gun models. They 
 do look good for back then, but they didn't change the fact that Half-Life was beginning to show 
 its age a little and no damn pack was going to change it. The pack also screwed with some of the 
 mods that were out for Half-Life. 
  
  Blue Shift should have been released for free. I will never understand why they forced people to 
 pay for it. But I also denounce the way fans "pushed" the company to release it. There's actually 
 a mod for Half-life which has you playing a security guard, which is called Azure Sheep. Not a 
 good alternative to Blue Shift, because it ended up being an overhyped piece of crap.
  
  I'd say that this game is pretty cheap now and if you have the time, go ahead and check it out. 
 I paid quite a bit for it and I got what was pretty much a mod that costed money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Humikimi
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  After completing Half-Life and Opposing Force, you will likely be left wanting more. They were 
 both great games and were both unique in their own ways. Blue Shift takes most of that, throws 
 it out the door and turns into a formulaic, basic and extremely short expansion pack. That's not 
 to say that it isn't fun, it just is too much of the same.
  
  The game itself looks fine, but with barely any upgrades, and mostly the same textures, it gets 
 a little repetitive. Luckily, most of the time the game looks fine.
  
  As far as sound, it sounded to me like a lot of the music was re-used from Opposing Force. Granted, 
 the music in OF was magnificent, but considering that the first expansion had a completely new 
 score, I figured Blue Shift would do the same. There are a couple new tracks but that is about 
 it. The voice acting is just as good as OF and the sound effects are as good as always also. I 
 just wish the music was a little more original.
  
  The game itself is far too short. You can likely run through the game in a couple of hours, ESPECIALLY 
 if you have experience with the original game and its first expansion. Most of the puzzles are 
 not new, with the possible exception of a handful, but a few isn't quite enough. You face the same 
 old enemies from Half-Life, without any inclusion of the new guys from OF and with no new enemies 
 exclusive to Blue Shift. Heck, there isn't even a proper last boss this time around. To add insult 
 to injury, there are no new weapons, and to make it worse, you only have access to a handful of 
 guns from the original game. That means you DO NOT have access to all the weapons of HL and none 
 of the new weapons in OF are featured either.
  
  At least the story is good. This game starts off basically where Half-Life starts off, and ends 
 about when Gordon is captured by the marines. Seeing the story from Calhoun's side is wondrous, 
 and adds new insight as to how the scientists escape from Lambda, not to mention how Calhoun escapes 
 with a crowbar (referring to Half-Life 2) . That is possibly the one good, original thing in this 
 game, otherwise you will find nothing but more of the same in this short and dissapointing expansion.
 
  
  To make things worse, there is NO featured multi-player here. Granted, between Deathmatch Classic, 
 HLDM and OFDM, there are plenty of options to choose from, but it would have been nice to see some 
 Blue Shift themed maps at least.
  
  In the end, this is only an expansion worth playing to get the full Half-Life experience, and to 
 better understand B. Calhoun's situation (it helps explain quite a bit about his appearance in 
 Half-Life 2) , but for those of you that just want some good action, I'd avoid this expansion. The 
 only justification I have for purchasing this is for the story, and because it came in the Half-Life 
 Platinum Collection, which was only $30 anyway. Enjoy.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Sound: 8/10
  Gameplay: 8/10
  Value: 5/10
  
  OVERALL: 7.0/10 (7.25/10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdavidb
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  First, play Half Life and Opposing Force. Now that you've got the story line, it's time to escape 
 Black Mesa as one of the guards.
  
  The game play and story line are at least as good as HL and OF. I found a couple of the puzzles 
 near the end to be particularly interesting (coolant pool and cut explosives line) . Probably the 
 main criticism would be the lack of some new weapon. Surely the Black Mesa guards have a top secret 
 armory somewhere!
  
  Anyway, I thought this was a fun addition to the series and didn't mind that I didn't have to spend 
 a month completing it. Sometimes a shorter game can be a nice relief. Some of us have a real life. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spoogan
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 24, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  In this expansion to Half Life, you control a security guard for the Black Mesa Research Facility 
 named Barney Calhoun who just happened to be in the wrong place at the wrong time. Basically, you 
 had just punched in for work when all hell breaks loose - by this I mean aliens are teleporting 
 into Black Mesa and killing off everything in site, and soon US Marines as well as Black Op forces 
 enter the scene looking to kill you and the civilians as well. Its up to you to find a scientist 
 named Dr. Rosenburg and help him repair a mini-teleporter so you can escape.
  
  If you've played Half Life or it's other expansion pack entitled Opposing Force then you know what 
 to expect in this game: lots of puzzles and lots of action. You run around as Barney, looking through 
 his eyes, as he clutches his weapons tights and fights his way through Black Mesa. You'll gather 
 weapons like pistols, magnums, shotguns, assault rifles, grenades, rocket launchers, a crowbar, 
 and others. All these will be used to fight off dog like things that send out shock-waves, Vortigaunts, 
 tad pole like monsters that spit acid or whatever at you, and US Marines that were sent in to kill 
 any living creature within Black Mesa.
  
  The difficulty is a little hard, and the puzzles are a bit tricky. For example, to kill a US Marine 
 (otherwise known as HECU Soldier) it takes like 5 shotgun blasts or 3 magnum shots, or the puzzle 
 where you have to complete an electric circuit but the game does nothing to tell you how to solve 
 it.... and you only find out by accidently moving a barrel in between the wires and the charge 
 goes through the barrel.
  
  The ending of the game was kind of lackluster, but certainly better then Opposing Force. You're 
 helping Dr. Rosenburg and his colleauges finish charging this mini-teleporter. As you wait for 
 the thing to charge so you may flip the switch and open the portal to leave, HECU soldiers come 
 barging in. You fight them, open the portal and run through. You appear outside with the scientists 
 who note that something is wrong - your glowing green. Quickly you teleport back to Xen (the alien 
 homeworld) . Then you appear back outside where you hear Rosenburg trying to figure out whats going 
 on. Just as quickly, you appear in some sort of room and oyu see two HECU soldiers dragging an 
 unconsious Gordon Freeman (the protagonist from Half Life) and saying things like "we should just 
 kill him now." and so on. Then you teleport back outside and Dr. Rosenburg notes that your no longer 
 growing green, that the scientists couldn't have done it without you, and all of you go driving 
 off away from Black Mesa.
  
  The only real downfall I have is the lack of action (fire fights) andhow short the game was. It 
 was incredibly short.
  
  Overall, Blue Shift was a pretty entertaining game when the fighting got hot, and to me it was 
 a welcome addition to the series. Others may not like it but whatever. I give it an 7 out of 10.
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ng2006
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2007 1:17 am PT
Review:  Blue Shift was the first game of HL series which I played. Before that I didn't like Half-Life 
 game at all. But once I played the BS I changed my whole mind about Half-Life. It turned to be 
 my favourite game serie. Now that I touched the taste of HL2 I'm phucking addicted to this damn 
 thing.
  The Blue Shift represented a good show of graphic and sound quality in its time. An acceptable 
 horror show.
  The game was easy to handle. Even in hard points I didn't take any special problem. (Although sometimes 
 it got scary!!! LOL) The game didn't take long to be finished. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: majesticcryx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  In Half-Life, you were Gordon Freeman, scientist. In Opposing Force, you were Adrian Shepherd, 
 marine. In Blue Shift, you're Barney Calhoun, rent-a-cop. All that remains is an alien point of 
 view, which Gearbox Software hinted will be satisfied in a PlayStation 2 Half-Life release.
  
  Naturally, whatever story there was in Half-Life, has been beaten to death quite soundly, and 
 given a few parting shots for good measure. In case you're not aware of it, here goes... You, as 
 Barney Calhoun, are an employee of the Black Mesa facility, a top-secret government research center. 
 The most secretive of the projects here is an attempt at developing a teleportation device, and, 
 to your dismay, it works. However, during one trial run the teleporter malfunctions and starts 
 a cascade of events which start with severe damage to the entire complex, and an alien invasion 
 to top it off. The US government sends in a marine division to exterminate all survivors and blow 
 the place up with nuclear weapons. In Half-Life, you save the world. In OpFor, you focus mainly 
 on saving your skin, but manage to save the world along the way. In Blue Shift, all you care about 
 is getting your ass out of the frying pan.
  
  Fortunately for Blue Shift, many people were mistaken when they thought that Half-Life was about 
 the story. Half-Life didn't have much of a story, when you think about it - what it had was delivery. 
 Through the use of scripted events, innovative level design, great use of AI and funky monsters, 
 and a real world setting, Half-Life made that playing through story interesting. That is why OpFor 
 wasn't hampered by working with the same scenario, and that is why Blue Shift can get away with 
 it.
  Half-Life: Blue Shift Review [ I'll spare you thejoke about being on your knees, headshot, you know 
 @ 800 x 600 ] &gt; View Full-Size in another window.
  I'll spare you the
  joke about being on your knees,
  headshot, you know
  Anything different?
  Blue Shift, unlike 
 OpFor, is a stand-alone expansion pack. You do not need Half-Life to play it, and it comes with 
 the Opposing Force expansion (which you do need Half-Life for.) To help make these old games look 
 better, the graphics for all three can be updated with a High Definition Pack that comes with Blue 
 Shift - a set of improved models that take some of the sting out of playing a nearly 2 year old 
 game. OpFor owners can also get a $10 rebate by sending in their Blue Shift and OpFor receipts.
 
  
  Finally, it's nice to spend most of the game worrying about yourself for a change, not the fate 
 of the world. While you get robbed of a big fight against a big, bad alien, you get to spend more 
 time fighting the most interesting foes in the game - marines. All in all, it seems like a fair 
 deal at the outset. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Finntroll267
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 24, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Ok! It might not be the best in the series, but it still is pretty fun! I spent about 10 hours 
 on it and so far i have to say that i really enjoyed this game a lot. The Graphics improved from 
 the previous game and the fact that it contains a High Definition Pack is a good thing! It also 
 contains Opposing Force + a Patch for it. They could of improved the voices a bit more because 
 they sound kinda crappy. Overall, seriously, this game scared the crap out of me and it was really 
 fun! (and it might of just been the first game to make me scream like a girly girl ;) ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: forever_blank
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 30, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Half Life: Blue Shift has you set in the role of a Barney Calhoon. You know one the guards you 
 have floatings around all the time in Half Life And Opposing Forces; they have thier witty comments, 
 though when you play as him, you do not here him say a word.
  
  There is nothing new, almost in Blue Shift. What might keep you going is the almost interesting 
 story, as usual you see the classic characters. The G-Man and Dr Free-Man. You have your own little 
 story which isn't too bad, though no boss for you at the end of the game.
  
  I mentioned in my Opposing Forces review, knowing that you are seeing the action unfold from a 
 different perspective, just might keep you going.
  
  Though there are no new weapons, virtually no new graphical upgrades; bar one of the scientists 
 having a decent looking face and the security guards having a bit of a make over, thats it.
  
  Not to mention its length is about 5 to 10 hours, which ins't exactly a great deal. Overall 
 its not bad, but its nothing new. Not really worth money, but if you really want something to add 
 to the story, you would be happy with Blue Shift. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alkpaz
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 8, 2007 10:32 am PT
Review:  Ah the tale of Barney.. lets see.. first off Barney really didn't know Gorden Freeman at Black 
 Mesa.. just saw him being taken to the trash compactor after loosing all weapons.. as well as being 
 mentioned by the good doctor. So why he is buddy buddy with Freeman in HL2 is a mystery.. The only 
 time Gordon sees Barney is knocking on a door.. at the beginning of the train ride.. though the 
 game does show you the outside of the facility just a tad.. This expansion is more like a haphazard 
 game.. sure its more HL but nothing new.. no new weapons.. a tiny arsenal.. and short game overall 
 make it just horrid in light of its previous game opposing force. I guess they needed a reason 
 to put Barney into perspective.. Gameplay.. still excellent
  
  Graphics.. decent.. showing age at the time of release
  
  Sound: excellent .. but also nothing 
 new
  
  Value: piss poor
  
  Tilt.. I give it a good rating of 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iminthepink
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 24, 2007 1:53 am PT
Review:  Half-Life - the game that paved the way for many of the successful Shooter games that would soon 
 follow it. The game that revolutionized the way the genre was handled. The game that set limits 
 in innovation, gameplay and realism. Indeed 1998 saw gaming, and FPS games in general, take one 
 of the biggest leaps it has ever taken in recordered history. Whilst little can be said about Half-Life 
 now in 2007, 9 years following its release, the limits it set in terms of innovation and storytelling 
 are still magnificent even to today's standards. Half-Life was a typical First-Person Shooter at 
 first glance that revolved around a seemingly simple story of an Alien Invasion that occurred in 
 a Top-Secret Research Facility... seems like your typical shooter game doesn't it?
  
  The thing that was most surprising is that it wasn't. Half-Life introduced an entirely unique and 
 effective way of telling a comprehensive story from the point of view of a scientist turned hero. 
 Traditional First-Person Shooters had the player heading for the one objective and simply navigating 
 through maps upon maps to get there. This was not the case in Half-Life. From the start of the 
 game, and mainly when the Incident starts, your main objective is clear: Get to the surface, call 
 in the Military, and contain the situation. The story continued to change throughout the course 
 of the game, however. From Chapter 5 it becomes clear that the Military has been sent into silence 
 the Incident along with the personnel associated with the project. From then it becomes more of 
 a matter of survival and containment than escape and rescue. Your main objective from Chapter 6 
 is to get to the Lambda Complex and close the dimensional rifts causing the invasion. This objective 
 is further divided into sub-plots that include launching a Satellite Delivery Rocket to help create 
 a Resonance Reversal, racing across a surface contaminated with Military Forces to finally going 
 to the Alien's homeworld and destroying the source. The story just never did get old. Half-Life's 
 gameplay was also very puzzle orientated, in which the player would have to solve a complicated 
 physics puzzle that needed to be resolved so that he/she could progress further into the game.
 
  
  Quite different to the average Shooter game at the time wasn't it.
  
  In 1999, a year following Half-Life's release, Gearbox Software released the game's first ever 
 expansion pack, Opposing Force. Unlike most expansion packs back then (which were developed for 
 the sole prospect of simply adding new content such as weapons, enemies and a few new maps) , Opposing 
 Force did its best to take an entirely different approach to the way expansion packs were developed. 
 Opposing Force took place in the same time-frame and setting as that of the original but in the 
 eyes of the Opposing Force (as implied by the name) ... a marine: Corporal Adrian Shepard. Unlike 
 most expansion packs, Opposing Force never made it feel as if the game was the Original albeit 
 with a different selection of weapons and a few different maps. Opposing Force took the story of 
 Half-Life and twisted it around to fit their needs - only they never made it feel as if you were 
 playing Half-Life again but at the same time they never made it feel as if it was a different universe. 
 In short the best FPS had been backed up by one of the greatest expansion packs ever made. The 
 Half-Life Legacy was certainly turning into something special.
  
  In 2001, Gearbox Software managed to pull off another 2 new expansion packs, entitled Blue-Shift 
 and Decay. Like Opposing Force, these expansion packs put the player back into the same time-frame 
 and setting as that of the original albeit in a different perspective. Blue-Shift saw the player 
 taking charge of Level 3 Security Guard, Barney Calhoun. Decay saw the player taking charge of 
 research associates Gina Cross and Colette Green in a co-op type port for the PS2 console. Surprisingly 
 though, with the success of Opposing Force, Gearbox somewhat failed at delivering a well-rounded 
 set of expansion packs.
  
  Before we get on with it, its may be worth noting that Blue-Shift was originally intended to be 
 a supplement game for the Sega Dreamcast. Unfortunately the console was cancelled later that year. 
 Thus, with the Sega's cancel, Blue-Shift was ported over to the PC. The Blue-Shift package was 
 also bundled with Opposing Force at a surprisingly low cost. Also included with Blue-Shift was 
 a High-Definition Package which, when installed with Blue-Shift, added higher res models to the 
 game, updating the graphics somewhat to a more acceptable level for 2001.
  
  Unfortunately, despite these inclusions, Blue-Shift itself doesn't quite add up to what you would 
 expect from an expansion pack for the Game of the Year. Blue-Shift starts off with the same basic 
 introduction as the original Half-Life: a rather lengthy tram ride that takes the player to the 
 required destination. Despite the fact that the Transit System's PA system has changed somewhat, 
 the tram-ride can feel too similar to the original Half-Life's introduction at some points.
  
  Very soon into the game of course, a catastrophe takes place in which a Resonance Cascade is 
 created in Sector C, tearing a dimensional rift between Earth and another dimension. Barney Calhoun 
 survives the initial Cascade, and like Half-Life and Opposing Force finds himself in an epic battle 
 for survival against not only an Alien race but also his own domestic Military.
  
  Blue-Shift's story, compared to Half-Life and Opposing Force' stories is a little mediocre to say 
 the least. Blue-Shift can generally take any experienced Shooter fan between 7 and 10 hours to 
 finish - so its understandable to say its considerably shorter compared to the other previous games. 
 Whilst the game certainly offers new content, much of the campaign is taken up by boring puzzle 
 sequences and surprisingly similar fire-fights. Blue-Shift also seems a little more paced out than 
 the previous titles, often creating a set of more complications to extend the story. In short, 
 there are no new challenges, it's all over extremely quickly and there's very little replayability. 
 One aspect that Gearbox have done well though, is including clever references to both Half-Life 
 and Opposing Force. It's not hard to say that the game can get a little repetitive after a while.
 
  
  In Half-Life, we had Gordon Freeman who wore an extremely high-tech Hazardous Environment Combat 
 Suit and in Opposing Force we had experienced Marine, Adrian Shepard who wore an equally advanced 
 PCV outfit. As you'd expect Barney probably wouldn't have the same academic and military background 
 as Adrian and Gordon although this is hard to put into context at most times: Barney runs at fast 
 speeds and has the same advanced HUD system as Gordon and Adrian. In fact the only time you feel 
 as if you're a security guard is at the beginning of the game when you put on your Helmet and Vest 
 and attend the firing range. Like Half-Life and Opposing Force' protagonists, Barney do not speak 
 at all during the course of the game. This is a deliberate and clever attempt at immersing the 
 player into the game at a greater degree.
  
  The addition of the High-Definition Package, however, may motivate you enough to go through Blue-Shift 
 (including Opposing Force) and revisit the famous time-frame in which Half-Life is set. The High-Definition 
 Pack adds higher res textures to maps and 3d models including characters, props and weapons. You'll 
 quickly notice quite a leap in terms of realism when it comes to these aspects. One of the most 
 noticeable changes is probably the switch from the classic Sub-Machine Gun from the original Half-Life 
 to an M16 Assault Rifle. Whilst the weapons certainly looks heftier, the changes are only skin 
 deep. The weapon functions exactly the same as the Sub-Machine Gun and does little to add much 
 to the gameplay aspect of it.
  
  Unlike Opposing Force, Blue-Shift does not come with any added content whatsoever. You'll come 
 across most of Half-Life's original enemies but never do you come across Race X or some of the 
 more enjoyable features form Opposing Force. The absence of these things certainly reduces the 
 amount of replayability Blue-Shift has to offer.
  
  Opposing Force and Counter-Strike come bundled with Blue-Shift's package. Opposing Force is also 
 able to be upgraded with the High Definition Pack. Finally it may be worth noting that Blue-Shift 
 is probably meant for those who played and enjoyed the original Half-Life most of all. Blue-Shift 
 simply adds upon the Half-Life story from a different perspective but doesn't deliver anything 
 groundbreaking or revolutionary: it's the original Half-Life with upgraded graphics and different 
 maps. It may also be worth noting that Blue-Shift does not require the original Half-Life to play 
 it.
  
  If you've played Half-Life and Opposing Force, you'll quickly notice that Blue-Shift doesn't have 
 a lot to offer. The absence of any new content, a multiplayer component and the fact the game is 
 considerably short leaves a lot to be asked for. Half-Life fans are sure to enjoy Blue-Shift at 
 the very least, though even with the inclusion of Opposing Force and revamped Graphics, Blue-Shift 
 still comes out as a disappointing continuation to the Half-Life Legacy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOE714
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 29, 2006 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Its only right that I should keep this review as short as the game it covers. So, without further 
 ado: Blue Shift. Too short, as I mightve mentioned. Starts off very well with a wink and a nod 
 to Gordon Freemans first sighting of a Barney guard as the enigmatic egghead begins his smug descent 
 into the cavernous high-tech bowels of Black Mesa. Watching the anomalous events of that day unfold 
 through the viewport of a noisily ill-fated service elevator was really cool. Basic gameplay was 
 great, but I expect nothing less of the HL model. Magnum rounds and MP5 grenades abound, which 
 is a good thing. Ends very well with a wink and a nod to Gordon Freemans capture and subsequent 
 disposal in garbage masher # 326827. Start time: early one steamy late-June morning in 2001. Completed: 
 that very same doggone day. Despite the inclusion of the Opposing Force expansion and the abundance 
 of free fanfic mods, I found myself wanting much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrotha
Rating: 5.9
Date: Oct 28, 2006 5:31 pm PT
Review:  WEll this isn't the worst expansion ever made, but it is pretty average and basic. For one thing, 
 it not only has half the original content of Half-life, but it adds nothing new to the franchise. 
 For another, it lasts about 2 hours, and is anticlimactic. You once again do not play as Gordon 
 Freeman. This time you are security guard Barney Calhoun. While performing maintenance on an elevator, 
 the event caused by Gordon Freeman happens. The main irritation of this expansion is, your character 
 isn't very special. Gordon Freeman wanted to join a group of scientists in fighting the invaders 
 of Black Mesa. Adrian Shepard wanted to survive long enough and at least try to do his job though 
 everyone wanted him dead. But now you're Barney Calhoun, a security guard who just wants to escape 
 within the next two hours. I suppose the only point of this game was to look snazzy. This was the 
 first half-life engine game to come with HD. That's what the developers mainly wanted you to see, 
 but I am not a visuals man, I care a lot for gameplay, and this was very weak in that category. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patno77
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 8, 2006 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life: Blue Shift is an expansion for Half-Life really? oh, i thought it was a dog In this 
 game you go on yet another trip through Black Mesa taking the role of some German guy (i forgot 
 his name) and pretty much doing everything that you did in Half-Life and Half-Life: Opposing Force 
 (included, and much better.) Blue Shift is one of the lamest First Person Shooters i have seen 
 in all my life. There is no story, hardly any action, and absolutely no challenge. DO NOT GET THIS 
 GAME!!! it is an insult to the Half-Life universe.
  
  Graphics: The graphics do okay for the time.
  
  Sound: The sounds are average, but could have 
 been better.
  
  Value: This game will keep you happy for about 1-2 hours, you be the judge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bulldawg8879
Rating: 8.4
Date: Oct 1, 2006 6:31 am PT
Review:  Im not really sure why this expansion got such poor reviews I found it to be very fun, and the 
 more challenging puzzles were well done as well. Sure its not as good as the original Half Life 
 but I wasnt expecting it to be. Instead of playing as Gordon freeman you play as a security guard 
 named Calhoun which is a interesting spin on the game. I can see why if you paid 20-30 dollars 
 for this alone back when the original came out you might be put off by its brevity but since its 
 part of Half Life Anthology its definatley worth playing if you had never played it before. There 
 are no new enemies or weapons but that didnt bother me much but that is a minus for an expansion. 
 One thing to note this is not a source version of the expansion so you get the old water and effects 
 but even now the graphics still hold up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightharvest
Rating: 8.3
Date: Oct 1, 2006 6:25 am PT
Review:  Half-Life: Blue Shift (Blue Shift) was the game (or perhaps expansion pack) that wasnt supposed 
 to be made for the PC. It started off as a project for the Nintendo Dreamcast, but when development 
 of the particular console slowed right down, it appears the source code was good enough to make 
 another Half-Life installment for the PC. And whilst Blue Shift is short in length, it is an enjoyable 
 gaming experience that provides yet another angle on the Black Mesa incident.
  
  Blue Shift begins at the same period as the original Half-Life begins. As a matter of fact, youll 
 see Mr. Freeman pass on the inbound train as the game starts. You play as Barney Calhoun, a security 
 guard at Black Mesa reporting for duty as usual. However, his first errand of the day is to fix 
 a small malfunction and he is in throws of that when the resonance cascade hits. From there on, 
 Barney fights his way though aliens and marines, as well as a finely crafted chapter in the Zen 
 universe. Barney has good allies in the scientists, who craft an escape route from the Black Mesa 
 facility, which is the ultimate goal of the game. But to get there, youll engage in a serving 
 of combat in a haunting environment through the underground depths of Black Mesa and on Zen itself.
 
  
  The graphics in Blue Shift are easily the best in the Half-Life series, thanks to the high definition 
 pack that was introduced with this game. While it does look dated today, the environments, models 
 and textures were first class for their time. I have said it previously, but the Black Mesa complex 
 and Zen are large and imaginative environments and a lot of creativity has gone into bringing them 
 to life. The models are well defined with the aliens looking menacing, the marines looking mean 
 and the scientists looking either smart or goofy. A lot of Blue Shift is played in low lighting 
 and this is a good effect as you crawl through the depths of Black Mesa or glide through the austere 
 environment of Zen.
  
  There is not a lot of difference with the sounds in Blue Shift. They remain solid and atmospheric. 
 The weapons do sound very realistic and firefights are made all the more intense with the sound 
 right. The in game ambient noises, from the hum of Black-Mesa to the surreal effects of Zen, all 
 work well and most of the voice acting is generally professionally executed. Except I have never 
 liked the voices used by the marines. Music does cut in from time to time, but whilst not offensive, 
 it is not that atmospheric either.
  
  The gameplay in Blue Shift is pretty much similar to Half-Life and Opposing Force, but for me there 
 was a more direct story line and more enjoyable set pieces and action. The action and the firefights 
 were challenging, tense and enjoyable, with the Marines being particularly tough. The alien enemies 
 were ideally placed throughout the game. Whilst you always expected another pack to confront you 
 at any moment, a lot of times it still was a genuine surprise when appeared from above or beyond. 
 The puzzles were just on the right side of challenging without moving to downright frustration, 
 and thankfully there wasnt too much pixel-perfect jumping required. The Chapter in Zen was the 
 best implementation of this particular universe in the Half-Life series and the jumping, the tunnels 
 and one serious skirmish in the middle of it all really made it an entertaining trip.
  
  The game could have perhaps introduced a few new weapons. As a matter of fact, there is less available 
 than in Opposing Force. While this is disappointing, in the end its not detrimental to the game. 
 The banter between the scientists is amusing as always and it was good to see these generally mocked 
 characters of the series devise and implement the escape plan. Its almost as if they have the 
 final laugh in the ending cut-scene.
  
  Finally, I thought the final set piece was perhaps one of Half-Lifes best. It was action packed 
 with plenty of variables and a time-limit that meant defence was not an option.
  
  Blue Shift does not take a long time. It took me between four and six hours to complete on the 
 default level. However, I did stumble across an annoying bug, where I could not get past a certain 
 point without the game crashing to desktop. After an hour or so, I remedied the situation by installing 
 the game separate to the Steam installation and thankfully the save games were compatible. While 
 this worked out well in the end, it was frustrating, it shouldnt happen and its the first real 
 crash issue Ive had with any game. Further, once its finished, theres no real incentive to 
 try again on a harder level.
  
  I picked up Blue Shift with the Half Life Platinum Collection (5 programs for AUD$49) back in 2004, 
 so value for money (say: AUD$10) is pretty reasonable. I can understand, however, why there were 
 criticisms on release that this was priced at US$30, because that is a bit steep for what is on 
 offer.
  
  I simply view Half-Life: Blue Shift as a bonus few hours of Half-Life gameplay. It was never 
 meant to be released on the PC and for me it was actually the most enjoyable of all the Half-Life 
 games prior to Half Life 2. It is atmospheric, provided enough entertaining set pieces and enough 
 variety to satisfy. It is highly recommended for FPS fans and anyone looking to complete the Half-Life 
 universe. Short and sweet and not half bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jtbeacham
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 15, 2006 10:53 am PT
Review:  When reading the reviews for Blue Shift on this site it would be easy to go with the crowd and 
 Gamespot by saying that this game doesn't add anything to the HL universe and is not worth playing. 
 I disagree. I don't know why everyone has a problem with this game. I thought that the gameplay 
 was the same as HL and Opposing Force; the only real drawback is that Blue Shift is so short. But 
 overall, I liked this game. There aren't any major new weapons or anything like that, but you still 
 get to run around Black Mesa from a new perspective, and the action is still intense. If you like 
 Half LIfe, definitely give Blue Shift a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilazn_boi
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jul 21, 2006 6:10 am PT
Review:  Most sequels i play i expect there to more weapons but this game didnt include any new weapons. 
 Also this expansion came out after opposing forces.... so it should introduce something new. This 
 time you are in the shoes of a secrurity guard at black mesa. Which i find very boring.
  Gameplay 6/10
  I hate the 10 min train ride and seeing the g-man. It happens in all of the half 
 life game.... This game is like half life 1 almost exactly.
  Graphics 8/10
  This game suppositly has revamped graphics but i really dont see a difference.
  Valye 8/10
 
  There is like no replay value but this game comes free with a half life bundle pack.
  Reviewers tilt 4/10
  I really did not enjoy this game mostly because of the the lack of new weapons. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kebn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 16, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  There isnt a whole lot to say about this game, its essentially half life 3 years after its release 
 just much, much shorter
  
  STORY - you play this game through the eyes of Barney Calhoun, a security guard in black mesa during 
 the invasion.
  
  GRAPHICS/SOUND - by 1998 standars the graphics were unparalleled at the time, but by 2001 they 
 were really starting to show their age, thankfully a high definition model pack was released and 
 is available for download through steam and the graphics look pretty good even by todays standards. 
 The sound is still fairly solid, no real change here. But i dont care about graphics in the slightest.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY - identicle to halflife, this really just an extended version, a short extension at that. 
 Less weapons though. 
  
  FIRST IMPRESSIONS - cool, more half life
  
  LASTING IMPRESSIONS - oh its over, crap!
  
  PROS - a decent game overall, but thats at best, 
 broadens the story of HL, its kinda cool being a security guard, new hi-def models, comes with 
 the halflife 1 anthology
  
  CONS - short as hell, over before you know it, less weapons, doesnt add anything new to the game
 
  
  overall this game is just about worth your time, oppsing force is far better though 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tinkertown
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 12, 2006 1:15 pm PT
Review:  If you've adored Half life since it was first released you would have a right too. The original 
 Half life game was simply spectactular and so was its second Expansion... opposing force. Though 
 Blue shift was a different yet easy role in the expansions. The entire point of the expansions 
 was they were all combined. As on the original game you see who we now know as Barney the Security 
 guard banging on the door... on blue shift you are Barney and you locked outside the door and you 
 watch Gordon Freeman pass by on the train. Though was blueshift good enough. It was infact quite 
 a dissapointment... a lack in effort to try and make the game more clever than the original. The 
 game is way tooooo short and has a pretty randomised and cruddy ending. All you do is escape up 
 to the suface and let a couple of scientists drie you away in their car! The aliens are the same 
 apart from a few modified details on both them and the weapons. The story line is typical though 
 its all based around the same thing really. The game is good to a certain extent though it gets 
 pretty tiresome and may have you willing to have another go... though you'll probably get bored 
 half way through!
  
  Overall: The game is decent but it shows just when Valve had to stop extending the first chapter. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjolnir334
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jun 26, 2006 1:24 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life is considered to be one of the best games of all time, and Opposing Force provided an 
 excellent expansion pack to an already great game. Fans were desperate for something more from 
 this universe so Gearbox was to do another expansion pack for Half-Life, and thus we have Half-Life 
 Blue Shift.
  
  In Half-Life: Blue Shift you get to play as Barney Calhoun, a security officer at the Black Mesa 
 Research Facility. The game Starts at the exact same time as Half-Life, in fact you can even see 
 Gordon Freeman near the start of the game. The game basically focuses on you, and several scientists 
 escaping from the facility.
  
  Half-Life had been released nearly three years before Blue Shift, so as you can imagine the graphics 
 would start to be looking on the old side. Thankfully a Hi-Def pack was added. This changes nearly 
 all the models and makes them look so much better. 
  
  The problem with Blue Shift is that it really lacks any of the real excitement of Half-Life or 
 Opposing Force. It just ends up feeling bland. Shoot this guy, run around, shoot this alien, etc. 
 It never really does anything terribly exciting, or even really attempts to add anything new. There 
 isnt anything you havent seen in a Half-Life game before, no new enemies, no new guns (although 
 the sub-machine gun is replaced with a full assault rifle thanks to the hi-def pack) , it just feels 
 boring which really isnt what Ive come to expect from the Half-Life series. Its also a fairly 
 short game. I think I passed it in about six or seven hours, so dont expect a lot of play time.
 
  
  Half-Life: Blue Shift is simply put a boring game. It really doesnt do anything special. It would 
 have been great to see some new enemies, or some new weapons, anything, but its just feels like 
 it was intended to just make a quick buck.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: avpget
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jun 8, 2006 8:48 pm PT
Review:  Blue Shift another sequel to Half-Life, it features better graphics than the original Half-Life 
 but lacks replay value. I easily beat this game in about eight hours. Still it provides a few hours 
 of killing monsters and aliens and offers some challenges like a bunch of monsters coming at you 
 by the dozens near the end. The sound is pretty good and the story is addicting. Yet it lacks anything 
 new such as any new weapons and monsters which is a little disappointing. It also lacks the opposing 
 force weapons too. I suggest you buy thus game and try it out, for a low price its worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: timbo0827
Rating: 7.6
Date: Apr 3, 2006 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Blue Shift is just like Half Life but you play as a security guard for Black Mesa. This is a good 
 expansion pack, but doesn't really grab the attention a great game should. I let a friend borrow 
 Blue Shift and he didn't really become interested in Blue Shift because the plot doesn't really 
 pick up. Rather than doing alien and soldier shoot ups you spend a good amount of time on puzzles. 
 First Person shooters are meant to be fun with action and sometimes a puzzle here and there but 
 this is filled with them. This is a very difficult expansion pack to enjoy but some may enjoy it 
 while others do not. I like Blue Shift but it needs to grab player's attention better. Between 
 Opposing Force and Blue Shift, I would get Opposing Force. But I got Blue Shift because it was 
 included in the Half Life 1 bundle so I can't really say anything bad about that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta4ya
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 2, 2006 1:58 pm PT
Review:  This game made me want to have it so Id have the whole HL collection but when I beat the game I 
 was very disappointed on how short it is! When I got the game for christmas in 2004 I thought it 
 was going to be an awesome game until i beat from beginning to end and I never thought how badly 
 I was ripped off and how my parents were ripped off for buying me this game!
  But dont get me wrong, this game is still good while its graphics, sound and gameplay are pretty 
 good. But this is basically a way shorter version of HL1 except different character and storyline. The 
 weapons are the same as HL1 and same with the monsters, soldiers, ETC. I thought this game was allright 
 but it needs to be worked on a little bit more on the length of this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklord_toccsn
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 30, 2006 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Now I myself loved the original Half Life but, after a while even gold turns to iron right? Ok, 
 maybe not. But still, after Half Life has been out this long the fans really wanted a sequel but 
 this would do ok its just... we're not playing as the right guy ya know, with the right guns, and 
 the right suit, ok maybe the suit doesn't matter but still I wanna play as Gordon darn it and the 
 army guy was cool because it really threw a huge variety of new and interesting weapons your way, 
 but you just can't do the same thing with a different guy and expect everyone to rejoice, because 
 even though this contains the Opposing Force expansion (so I've heard, I already had Opposing Force) 
 this one pales in comparison and lack of any real reason to complete this version does hinder it. 
 Sure its still all good here, but its just not fresh or new..... anymore. The new graphics mess 
 up and just doesn't want to function if you've already worked your old graphics (on my pc at least) 
 so really if your getting the pack with all the expansions hey take it i mean it is free, but its 
 no Opposing Force in anyone's books. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tartagliam
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 29, 2006 6:36 am PT
Review:  Well, the expansion is good in many ways. It compliments the story, adds some cool twists to what 
 happens in the background, and more importantly, adds a new high-res weapon pack. Now I think it 
 may be sad to say that I liked the expansion more for the pack than the game, but hey, every game 
 has to bring it's own piece to the table. A worthy buy, just not at the $20 tag...
  
  If you want to play through HL with a new twist, then this is worth it. But in comparison to Opposing 
 Force, this mod just needed more time. The gameplay seemed to be repititious at times and very 
 little new stuff was created. In the end, buy this if you're a HL fan. If you're not, you can skip 
 it and not feel guilty. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunman357
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 29, 2006 12:34 am PT
Review:  Half-Life: Blue Shift does'nt quite measure up to the value of the other games, here I will explain 
 why.
  
  First off, the intensity does'nt quite measure up to all the other half-life games, which immeadietly 
 brings it down to the least popular.
  
  Next off, the length of the game is short, therefore it did'nt quite give enough time to the player 
 to get used to being in the shoes B. Calhoun. 
  
  This game also has no multiplayer whatsoever, therefore when you finish the game, your pretty much 
 done with it, which sadly will occur quickly.
  
  This game has to be the easiest half-life game in existence............ Therefore also adding to 
 my list of flaws.
  
  The gameplay of this game is alright, mediocre at best. If they added a little more difficulty, it 
 would've been a much better game.
  
  The sound, on the other hand is probably one of the best in any original half-life game, which is 
 one of the best parts.
  
  The graphics of this game are just as good as any original half-life game, which also adds up to 
 the short list of good parts of this game.
  
  Also what you go through as B. Calhoun adds up to Gordon Freeman's story, and you get to see a surprise 
 appearence by him..... Which also helps the game out.
  
  It all adds up to this.........
  
  CONS:
  
  No multiplayer.
  Short game.
  Small level of intensity.
  easy gameplay.
 
  
  PROS:
  
  Good sound, equal to the original.
  Good graphics, also equal to the original.
  Ties into the Half-Life story.
  
  I think Valve 
 could of done better than this, first the original, then opposing force, and now this.......... I believe 
 that releasing this game in this state was a mistake.
  
  If your a die hard Half-Life fan, or just looking for a short story, go for it.
  But if your looking 
 for a thriller, this game sadly will dissapoint you greatly.
  
  
  
  ~gunman357~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sarge_Maximus2
Rating: 2.8
Date: Mar 26, 2006 11:20 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 3
  Why: This is one of those games that prolong's it's gameplay by having the player go through hours 
 of puzzles just to get a few feet in the game. The story, to start out with, is rediculous. Your 
 a security guard in a top secret research facility that studies alien technology. Anyhow, even 
 before you get to do anything, you are thrust into the story where aliens attack the base and the 
 entire facility loses power and explodes a few times. Yes, had it not been for the many seemingly 
 unwarranted explosions within the game, your character would have been trapped in a closed off 
 room many a time. In fact, you have to take the long way round simply because every explosion blocks 
 the exit to freedom, and opens a wall that leads to another five hours of trekking through dark 
 hallways, grim puzzles and aliens to shoot. Amazingly there is always ammo to be found even though 
 the places you go through seem to fake to exist in any real facility.
  
  The game's many puzzles are the kind that leave you stumped for hours on end and then you figure 
 it out. At this point you are overjoyed to get to actually continue through the linear hazard zone 
 and blast more aliens. Only to be, yet again, thrust into a dead-end cubicle. And yes, you have 
 to figure out how to escape and continue your journey.
  
  Graphics: 6
  Why: At the time this game was made, these graphics were fairly good but the frame rate tends to 
 click up at points of high stress.
  
  Sound: 4
  Why: I-I-I... d-d-d-don't k-k-k-kno-w-w-w w-w-hyy-y-y-y-y thi-s-s c-coul-d-d-d beee-e-e...
  
 
  Value: 2
  Why: If you love to be furious at stupid illogical puzzles for hours on end, only to finally crack 
 them and be presented with yet another, infinately more hideous enigmatic headache, then don't 
 hesitate, BUY THIS GAME NOW!
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: 1
  Why: This game is the worst in history. Forget first person shooter, this game's genre is: illogicle 
 puzzles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stangsaleen2000
Rating: 6.7
Date: Feb 25, 2006 11:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is for those people who are major half-life fans and want to get into the game more. 
 That is really what this game is. An add-on to another game. There isn't much to expect from this 
 since your are one of those security guards that would get in the way more than help you in the 
 first half-life. Well This game isn't all that bad. It still has some fun from the first game, 
 but the biggest problem is that there is nothing new and that unique to this game. The story is 
 the same and you fight the same things. If you think that the first half-life was too short and 
 you need more of a half-life fix then go ahead and try this game. Otherwise this game is a spin-off 
 and nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zanold
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 27, 2006 10:39 am PT
Review:  This Game is ok i sort of like it better then Half Life one because you can get new weapons like 
 the M4 and alien gernades and reason two you can go to places Gordon Freeman hasent gone too. Its 
 like the other Half Life games except this one is just a little shorter. This game is a little 
 bit harder than half life one because you dont have an HIV uniform you get armor vests that run 
 out quickly. Its almost the same as Half Life except more weapons basicly and its shorter and the 
 revovlvers ammo is not scarce like in every other half - life game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GizmoSimo
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 22, 2006 12:10 am PT
Review:  although is more of the same we saw on Half-Life , blue shift is as fun to play as half-life itself 
 , it has few additions , and this time you play as the security guard that helped Gordon Freeman 
 during the black mesa insident Barney Callhoun , character which will be seen in the sequel to 
 Half-Life , Half-Life 2,
  
  Blue shift engage the same techniques as HL , shooting aliens and being aided by scientists and 
 security guards while on the run from military grunts who try to eliminate every witness to the 
 incident , with an enhancement of graphics blue shift is fun to play if you reallyt enjoyed Half-Life 
 and don't mind playing more of the same but from a different perspective of the same situation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zwulith
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jan 2, 2006 6:02 am PT
Review:  Half life was pretty revolutionary way back in 1998 when it was released. Half life opposing force 
 was an interesting expansion. Mainly becuase you played as the enemy. Now Half life has it's second 
 expansion and the results are just as mixed as the previous two entries.
  
  The main problem with Half life blue shift is how old it is. The game is almost 5 years old. If 
 your just getting around to Half life blue shift then don't bother, it's really not worth the purchase. 
 However, if you love Half life, despite how old it is, then read on.
  
  In Half life blue shift, you play as Barney, one of the many security guards stationed around Black 
 Mesa. Just like in Opposing forces, you get to see the game through an entirely new perspective. 
 Just like in Opposing forces, you will see and travel through Black Mesa while also running into 
 Gordon Freeman from time to time, although he can't see you. 
  
  In Half life blue shift you try to escape just like Gordon Freeman did in the original. The experience 
 is much shorter this time around and it just revolves around you escaping. You do go to Xen at 
 about the last 30 minutes of the game, but that's about it. The game ends rather abruptly too.
 
  
  Half life blue shift's graphics aren't to great. They look pretty bland and the character models 
 are as blocky as it gets. The environments are pretty well done, especially planet Xen, but overall 
 the game just isn't that impressive. 
  
  The primary thing you do in Half life blue shift is shoot up lots of aliens that have came to Black 
 Mesa and there pretty much the same type of monsters that you experienced in the original Half 
 life. The AI is also quite less remarkable this time around too. Although in the original Half 
 life, the AI was one of the highlights, this time around the AI is one of the low points. You also 
 face a lot more aliens than soldiers too.
  
  The puzzles in the game are actually well thought out, although some are really tough and definitely 
 makes you think. Some puzzles are justh a simple matter of finding a switch, while others you have 
 to shoot a barrel that rolls down a river and then you need to find a way to raise the water level 
 to cross. These kind of puzzles can get frustrating more than anything. 
  
  The weaponry in Half life blue shift is pretty much the same as the original too. You have your 
 machine guns, shotguns, and pistols, but that's about it mainly due to the game's length. You can 
 beat this game in roughly 4 hours and this isn't enough time to give you much weaponry, plus there 
 isn't to much replay value. Luckily, the game isn't retailing for more than $10, or might even 
 come packaged with every Half life game except for Half life 2, so it's not all bad.
  
  Half life blue shift's sound is the very definition of mediocre. The footsteps are extremeley loud 
 and the weapon sounds are really weak.
  
  Half life blue shift is an Ok expansion. Although it branches the Half life's story even more and 
 gives a different perspective on how Barney made it out of Black Mesa. It honestly just isn't worth 
 playing almost 5 years after the making. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: barkera0
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 18, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Intro: After playing Half-Life and Opposing Force, you might be wondering whether this is worth 
 your while. It follows the same storyline as the other two, but seen from the perspective of a 
 security guard. Sounding interesting? Then read on!
  
  Gameplay 8/10:
  Usual awesome half-life gameplay, they haven't messed with anything here, just left it all the 
 same except for a few new weapons. However you can pick from three difficulty levels (easy, medium, 
 hard) in this one as well. For those of you who have played Hal-Life you don't really need to know 
 anything more about gameplay. If your new to it, then keep readin this section.
  Blue Shift is a First-Person Shooter. Following the normal FPS style the game gives you access 
 to lots of guns for you to have fun with and fore different situations. In this game you have everything 
 from a Pistol to a Machine Gun or from a crowbar to an Alien Disperser weapon, as well as everything 
 in between. The aim of the game is to progress through the areas and make your way to the end of 
 the game. Its not like an adventure when you cacn freely explore an area and come back later; after 
 you leave an area here, you cannot go back. However, there is no need to as there is only one main 
 quest of the game. You'll have to use your smarts and reflexes to get through each area because 
 as you progress throught the Black Mesa facility you will be faced with many different challenges 
 such as killing Black Ops people, taking down aliens or just cross biochemical waste.
  
  Graphics 7/10:
  For the time the graphics are very good, but of course, they're nowhere near 
 good enough to meet todays standards. Focusing on for the time though: they are exceptional graphics, 
 all the guns are true to form and all the aliens are menacing in their apperance. The scenery is 
 maybe a little plain, but does it job of setting the scene very well!
  
  Sound 5/10:
  What sound? There is no background music to this game, only sound effects. I would normally give 
 a game like that 6/10 for sound, but as it is a FPS it doesn't need it so much, also in some areas 
 it would ruin the atmoshpere. The sound effects, though, are very good. All the gun shots, explosions 
 etc are very realistic and if aliens like this really existed i'm sure they would maon like they 
 do in the game too!
  
  Story 5/10:
  Well, it basically deserves a 1/10, but its story serves it purpose. Classic storyline, aliens 
 invade the earth and its up to you to stop them! In Blue Shift, you need to try to find out what 
 is going on and, as a security guard, try to help the people inside (even though very little of 
 this actually happens) . So if your looking for a game with a deep, interesting, enthralling storyline, 
 then maybe you should look elsewhere.
  
  Challenge 8/10:
  Blue Shift presents an excellent challenge especially seen you have three difficulty levels to 
 pick from. Some areas of the game, especially those against other humans, can be incredibly tough, 
 as well as some alien bosses. However, being able to save anytime you want can make this a little 
 easier unless you save just as you die! Then your stuck!
  
  Replay Value 4/10:
  RP is basically non-existant unless you just want to play through it again as you enjoyed it a 
 lot. The only thing to redo is to beat the game on a harder difficulty level, but otherwise, thats 
 it.
  
  Conclusion 7/10
  Blue Shift is a great half-life mod to play, especially if you need something to do. It has everything 
 you could want for a FPS, except maybe for replayability, make sure you play it though, its worth 
 a least a once playthrough, probably more if you don't own Half-Life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wakbuky_ted
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 6, 2005 10:38 am PT
Review:  Dissapointing. It is very short and not half as good as the original or Opposing Force. But it 
 still has it's ups. You do get to be a security guard instead of a scientist. And the last level 
 is pretty fun. It doesn't seem like much, but jumping through the teleporter with all the marines 
 chasing you is pretty fun. And it is kind of cool seeing Gorden Freeman every once in a while but 
 i will remain with what i said... it is disapointing and is way to short. It is pretty fun toward 
 the end and the game is'nt that bad but it's just short. If you are a huge Half-Life fan (like 
 me) you should buy the game but try to get it off ebay for a really cheap price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kool_zed_speaks
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2005 2:46 am PT
Review:  Ok, this is about the pack of Blue-Shift, which includes Opposing Force, so, if you don't have 
 that, I recommend you stop reading.
  
  Blue-Shift is so short, you might say, "Why did I waste my money?", but friends a life-saver pack 
 which includes Opposing Force has arrived. In Blue-Shift you become a Black Mesa security guard, 
 Barney Calhoun.
  
  Barney is a good guy who shoots aliens and marines. Your arsenal isn't impressive ( way below the 
 cool weapons of Opposing Force ) . So don't expect guns to be fun. The game itself is quite easy 
 in the medium level, since there is no big, bad final boss. Nope. Your hardest task is to do a couple 
 of... (errands?) for a Black Mesa scientist called Dr. Rosenburg. After you save his butt from enemies 
 he becomes a pain and starts directing you around. Apart from being short Blue-Shift has very few 
 other problems.
  
  On the other hand, in Opposing Force, you pick up the guns of Corporal Adrian Shepard, who shoots 
 aliens and was sent to terminate Gordon Freeman. You will definitely enjoy playing Opposing Force, 
 its much longer than Blue-Shift, Shepard uses some beautiful weapons and of course there are some 
 new aliens which were not present in the original Half-Life. The final boss is fun to blow up.
 
  
  The High-Definition pack included in the game considerably improves the visual quality of BS and 
 OF.
  
  An interesting feature of these games is that Calhoun and Shepard were running around in the Black 
 Mesa Research Facility at the same time as Gordon Freeman. You can catch glimpses of Freeman in 
 the games.
  
  Well, every game has at least one flaw and not considering the flaws of these, you should definitely 
 play BS and OF as they are the widely acclaimed Half-Life games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sniper
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 9, 2005 9:54 pm PT
Review:  I'm in one of my "old-school" moods again, so I decided to replay Half-Life: Blue Shift. I'm glad 
 I did, because this expansion pack provides a nice weekend of fun. The Half-Life "engine" is really 
 showing its age, though. As an aside, why does everyone insist on crediting the original Half-Life 
 with its own engine? Valve built the game with Quake II technology, after all. Anyway, the blurry 
 textures and low polygon count geometry make it difficult to take seriously. Nevertheless, Blue 
 Shift doesn't have to be taken seriously -- just shoot stuff, and enjoy!
  
  Two things that never get old, however, are the game's sound effects and minimalist ambient music 
 score. The gunfire, explosions and driving beat of those electronic tunes are quite satisfying. 
 The pacing too is great, with a happy mix of gun battles, puzzles, exploration and NPC dialogue.
 
  
  Another positive to Blue Shift is the setting of Black Mesa. This huge and varied complex never 
 stops being a compelling place to wage war against evil jar-head Marines and hostile aliens alike. 
 Tunnels, scientific labs, industrial machinery, outdoor vistas and deep underground trams make 
 the place every conspiracy theorist's dream.
  
  So if Half-Life's gameplay has worn thin because, like me, you've played it one too many times, 
 give the Blue Shift expansion another go-round. Minimum frustration and maximum gunplay make it 
 an old-school winner.
  
  By Phill "Sniper" Parker 
::::::

::::::
UserName: razor_jim
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jan 9, 2005 11:40 am PT
Review:  For any fan of Half-Life, this is a must-have addition to the Half-Life experience. Despite its 
 lack of length and technical problems, Blue Shift is a fun experience that is worthy of the Half-Life 
 legacy.
  
  In Blue Shift, you play as Barney Calhoun, a security guard at the Black Mesa Research Facility, 
 where the original Half-Life plot takes place. However, there is a completely different story to 
 be told from Barney's point of view. The interactions between guards and scientists can be drop-dead 
 hilarious in this game, and the previously unseen parts of Black Mesa are something to behold as 
 well. Blue Shift adds a whole new dimension to Half-Life, and also explains why Barney is in Half-Life 
 2.
  
  Honestly, the only complaint I have about Blue Shift is that it is nowhere near as long as Half 
 Life or its successor, Half Life: Opposing Forces, which is included with Blue Shift, a very bountiful 
 bonus! Once you get through Blue Shift, which won't take very long, go mow through Opposing Forces, 
 which is a much longer and more immersive experience.
  
  Overally, Blue Shift is a worthy game, however if it didn't have the obvious technical errors (decal 
 problems, savegames) and if it was much longer, it would be right up alongside its brothers in 
 the HL trinity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squeekikleen
Rating: 7.1
Date: Jan 7, 2005 1:50 am PT
Review:  Blue Shift is merely an okay shooter. It plays similarly to Half-Life and Opposing Force but not 
 does not compare to them for several reasons. The first reason would be that the action does not 
 aspire to be anything great, although it is still worth playing for any fan of Half-Life. The second 
 reason would be that the game seems stripped down due to the absence of bosses or any interesting 
 references to the first two games (or any of consequence) . Opposing Force did a better job of implementing 
 those aspects. Another reason would be that it feels much shorter than it should be (Opposing Force 
 was considered too short by many, and Blue Shift is even shorter) . Nonetheless, it is still an 
 okay game and therefore good enough to be considered.
  
  On the other hand, one gets superb value (if you waited for the price to come down a bit) . In addition 
 to a satisfactory shooter  and an extension to the Half-Life saga  one gets the inclusion of 
 Opposing Force and a welcomed graphics update to Half-Life and the former. It gives us another 
 reason to go through those games yet another time. Another good point is that this is a stand-alone 
 expansion pack meaning you dont need the original to play it (not that anyone who buys this would 
 not have the original, nor should anyone) .
  
  So, Blue Shift shipped with a double-edged sword: the first side being a treat to those who did 
 not buy Opposing Force, and the second being a punch in the face to those who had to buy both (even 
 with the discount) . Right now though, its priced extremely cheap, so its worth picking up if 
 you already havent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pyrids
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 6, 2004 9:25 pm PT
Review:  I figured I would group my review for both Opposing Force and Blue Shift in this review since this 
 game comes with both. Although both of these games add some depth to the original game they're 
 both painfully short and leave you begging for more. I beat OF in about a day and a half and I 
 beat BS in one sitting. I'd say OF is definitely the better of the two and nearly creates a new 
 game altogether from the original HL. The gameplay is similar yet different with addition of new 
 enemies, weapons, allies, and squad tactics. I thought that near the end it became very difficult 
 and even a little frustrating but if you are patient you can pull through in the end. Blue Shift 
 almost seemed like an excuse to pay for the HD pack. It was also kind of an unavoidale gimmick 
 since every HL fan wants to play as Barney Calhoun. I definitely thought it was fun but it was 
 way way way too short. But because Blue Shift comes packaged with Opposing Forces and the HD pack 
 it's definitely worth the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hunk4thSurvivor
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2004 11:31 pm PT
Review:  Half Life Blue Shift is a good game. However, It doesnt feel like its worth all your money. This 
 game really and truely feels like an expansion pack that could have been downloaded off the internet. 
 Although, This game isn't groundbreaking and doesnt deserve your money to buy. It still is a desent 
 game.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Good, going around shooting aliens in the Black Mesa and other wierd and strange environments.
 
  
  GRAPHICS: Good, not great but they do the job and its not anyone would hate.
  
  SOUND: Superb, The Half Life franchise has been known for its Superb and stunning sound. This has 
 some of the best elements you can have in sound.
  
  VALUE: Fair, Unforunately Its not worth a true purchase. It doesnt have Online play either.
  
 
  REVIEWERS TILT: Good, Overall its a desent game with no replay value or thoughts on buying this 
 game. Unfortunately this game feels just like an add on that isnt worth anything more than just 
 a run through. Its a short game, although fun but just worth the purchase.
  
  GOOD The game gets a 7.1/10 
  
  -Justin 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
